Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Maldives on the TravelHealthPro website.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
Commercial flights are running to and from Maldives. Check with your travel company for the latest information.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Maldives.
Returning to the UK
Travelling from and returning to the UK
Check what you must do to travel abroad and return to England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
If you plan to pass through another country to return to the UK, check the travel advice for the country you’re transiting. If you will pass through a red list country, book your hotel quarantine package before travelling to the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Maldives
Those who have received two vaccination doses and have a negative PCR test result can travel internally to islands that are not under monitoring without having to quarantine. If the positivity rate is between 5 and 10% on the island you are travelling from, you must observe a 7 day quarantine at your destination island. If the positivity rate is higher than 10%, 14 day quarantine must be observed at destination. Use of masks is mandatory while travelling by air and sea.
Those who have not received two doses of a COVID-19 vaccine can only travel to inhabited islands with guesthouses if:
60% of the island population have completed two doses of a WHO-approved COVID-19 vaccine;
95% of all employees in the tourism sector of the island have completed two doses of a WHO-approved COVID-19 vaccine;
90% of the island population over the age of 60 has completed two doses of a WHO-approved COVID-19 vaccine;
You will be regarded as having completed two doses only after 14 days have passed since you received your second dose of a WHO-approved COVID-19 vaccine.
Unvaccinated visitors that travel to islands that meet the above vaccine coverage criteria must take a PCR test 7 days after arrival. As the Greater Male’ area does not meet the criteria specified above, only tourists who have completed two doses of a COVID-19 vaccine can stay at hotels and guesthouses in the area.
Tourists can travel between islands and resorts that do not have COVID-19 cases and are not subject to monitoring for COVID-19, but need prior approval for inter-island travel from splitstays@tourism.gov.mv. If you have stayed at a tourist guesthouse (as opposed to a resort island) at any point during your stay in Maldives, you need to conduct a PCR test 72 hours prior to your scheduled departure from Maldives.
Accommodation
Some resorts are open to tourists.
Guesthouses and city hotels are open for tourists.
Public places and services
Social distancing measures are in place. Public and mass gatherings of up to 30 people are now allowed throughout the Greater Male’ region, including parties and rallies. A distance of three feet must be maintained with others when going out. Use of masks is mandatory on all inhabited islands when going out in public.
Public spaces such as parks or sports grounds in the Greater Male’ area are open with three feet social distancing measures to be observed and mandatory use of masks except when exercising.
Healthcare in Maldives
Test and tracing measures are in place in Maldives. The Maldivian healthcare system is meeting current demands but may come under significant strain if the number of cases increases. Access to routine and emergency healthcare may be limited. View Health for further details on healthcare in Maldives.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Maldives
We will update this page when the Government of the Maldives announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Maldives national vaccination programme started in February 2021 and is using the AstraZeneca and Sinopharm vaccines. From 15 January 2022, the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine is being administered as a booster dose for those over 18 who have completed their second COVID-19 vaccine at least six months previously. The Government of the Maldives has stated that resident British nationals over 12 years old are eligible for vaccination, if they choose to join the programme. All residents are requested to register on the My Health Portal where you can also book an appointment for vaccinations. Daily updates on vaccine centres are updated by the Health Protection Agency (HPA) on their Twitter. The Maldivian authorities have published FAQ on vaccines.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in the Maldives, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
The Maldives Ministry of Health page provides COVID-19 local updates and overarching guidance in English.
