This page has information on travelling to the Maldives. Check what you must do to return to the UK.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport from the UK, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in the Maldives set and enforce entry rules.
All travellers
You will need the following to enter or travel through Maldives as a visitor.
Visas
The visa on arrival service continues as normal for all tourist arrivals.
If you intend to work in Maldives, you will need to get a work permit before you arrive. You must also pay a security deposit to the Ministry of Finance. See the Maldives Immigration website for current rates.
For further information and advice on entry requirements you should contact the High Commission of the Republic of Maldives in the UK or the Department of Immigration and Emigration in Maldives.
Passport validity
If entering Maldives as a tourist, you will be granted a 30-day visa upon arrival and your passport must be valid for a minimum of one month. However, if arriving by air, most airlines state that your passport should be valid for a minimum period of 6 months from the date of entry into the Maldives. Check with your transport provider or tour operator before travelling. You should ensure your passport has no damage or you may be stopped by Immigration, who examine passports carefully.
Yellow fever vaccination certificate
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
If you’re fully vaccinated
Effect 5 March, travellers who have completed vaccine doses of any of the WHO Emergency Use List vaccines for COVID-19 or vaccines approved under the Maldives Food and Drug Authority (MFDA) will no longer need a negative PCR test for entry into Maldives. To be considered as fully vaccinated, 14 days must have passed since the completion of the vaccine doses.
All travellers to the Maldives must fill in a Traveller Health Declaration form 48 hours before departure to and return from the Maldives.
All passengers and airline crew need to complete an Immigration Arrival Card when arriving in the Maldives.
Temperature checks and screening procedures will be in place on arrival. Quarantine facilities have been set up to isolate any suspected cases of COVID-19. Travellers presenting symptoms of COVID-19 upon arrival will be subjected to a PCR test at the traveller’s cost or at the cost of the tourist facility where the traveller is booked to stay in the Maldives. Additionally, local health authorities may conduct random testing, at no cost to travellers.
Proof of vaccination status
You can use the NHS COVID Pass to demonstrate your vaccination record when entering the Maldives.
If you’re not fully vaccinated
All non-vaccinated visitors (except children under the age of one) must present a negative PCR test for COVID-19 on arrival to Maldives. The test and negative PCR certificate must be issued no more than 96 hours prior to departure. You should not use the NHS testing service to get a test in order to facilitate your travel to another country. You should arrange to take a private test.
All travellers to the Maldives must fill in a Traveller Health Declaration form 48 hours before departure to and return from the Maldives.
All passengers and airline crew need to complete an Immigration Arrival Card when arriving in the Maldives. Temperature checks and screening procedures will be in place on arrival. Quarantine facilities have been set up to isolate any suspected cases of COVID-19. Travellers presenting symptoms of COVID-19 upon arrival will be subjected to a PCR test at the traveller’s cost or at the cost of the tourist facility where the traveller is booked to stay in the Maldives. Additionally, local health authorities may conduct random testing, at no cost to travellers.
All non-tourist passengers travelling from the UK (includes 12-hour transit) to the Maldives (such as residents, work visa holders and returning students) that have completed two doses of vaccination will need to provide a negative PCR test taken no more than 96 hours before departure, and are not required to quarantine on arrival. Those who have not completed vaccinations will need to self-isolate for 14 days and register on the Haalubelun portal. After completing the quarantine, you must take an exit test.
Children under the age of one do not have to provide a negative PCR test.
These requirements do not apply to tourists and the government has said it has no plans to quarantine tourists on arrival.
If you’ve had COVID-19 recently
Travellers who recently recovered from COVID-19 (previous infection within 60 days prior to date of departure) and got a positive PCR result from the sample tested for travel, must also present the documentation of recovery from COVID-19. Positive recovered travellers should follow the process described below:
Passengers arriving in the country must complete and update the traveller Health Declaration through the Maldives Immigration IMUGA online portal within 48 hours prior to departure to Maldives.
PCR test result, COVID-19 recovery proof and any other applicable documents should be submitted when completing the online traveller health declaration form through the IMUGA portal. And these documents must also be made available to check.
Additionally, check with the respective airline for their pre-boarding requirements prior to commencing your travel to the Maldives. The document containing ‘proof of COVID-19 recovery’ should state:
Name of the passenger (name as in passport)
Passport number/National identification number
Health status owing to COVID-19 infection
Sample collection Date (which gave the initial positive result)
Document (proof of covid-19 recovery) issued date
Note: Remotely verifiable COVID-19 recovery pass/proof issued by government/ official authority is accepted and preferred, where available
Children and young people
Children under the age of one do not have to provide a negative PCR test on arrival to Maldives.
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
If you are visiting Maldives as a tourist, your passport should be valid for one month from the date you arrive. However, if arriving by air, most airlines state that your passport should be valid for a minimum period of 6 months from the date of entry into the Maldives.
Check with your travel provider to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents are accepted for entry, airside transit and exit from Maldives.
Returning to the UK
Check what you must do to return to the UK.
