At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Coronavirus
There have been confirmed cases of coronavirus (COVID-19) in Maldives. Restrictions may be imposed at short notice: contact your tour operator or resort island ahead of travel. If you are currently on holiday in Maldives please check with your host and/or travel agent for any new developments that might affect your ability to travel home as scheduled.
The Government of Maldives has declared a Public Health Emergency, effective until 10 April. For 14 days, effective from 14 March, travel from and to resorts from all inhabited islands is suspended. Excursions to islands other than the one in which you are resident are being limited, and public spaces like parks or sports grounds are temporarily closed. Speak to your tour operator for further information.
The Government of Maldives announced a ban on entry into Maldives of anyone who has left or transited the UK in the last 14 days, with effect from 11.59 pm on 18 March. Like Maldivian nationals returning to Maldives, British Nationals with residency in Maldives and who have a Maldivian spouse will be admitted and placed into quarantine.
All cruise ships are currently banned from entering and docking in the Maldives. In addition, the Government of Maldives has banned all persons who have been in the last 14 days to Mainland China (not including Hong Kong), Iran, South Korea (North Gyeongsang and South Gyeongsang Provinces), Italy, Bangladesh, Spain (all provinces and regions), Germany (Bavaria, North Rhine-Westphalia and Baden-Württemberg) and France (Île-de-France and Grand Est) from entering or transiting through the Maldives. All passengers and airline crew must fill-in a Health Declaration Card and an Immigration Arrival Card before arriving in the Maldives and undergo a screening procedure. Quarantine facilities have been set up to isolate any suspected cases. You should comply with any additional screening measures put in place by the local authorities.
Passengers arriving by air from countries with a high incidence of coronavirus may be subject to additional health screening and a quarantine requirement if they are demonstrating symptoms.
On 27 February, the Government of Maldives announced a temporary ban on all cruise ships from entering and docking in the Maldives. Speak to your tour operator for further information.
Further advice on coronavirus is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website
Health risks
There have been recent outbreaks of dengue fever.
UK health authorities have classified Maldives as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For more information and advice visit the National Travel Health Network and Centre website
Medical treatment
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 102 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation.
Medical facilities are limited. There are only a handful of fully equipped hospitals on the capital island, Male’ and in Hulhumale. Although most resort islands are within reach of a doctor (and some high-end resorts have their own medical facilities), many are several hours’ travel away from the hospital facilities on Male’. Many resort islands are more than an hour away from the nearest decompression chamber.
