Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

There are currently no regular commercial options available to return to the UK from Maldives following decisions taken by commercial airlines. However, we understand there is a flight operated by Sri Lankan Airlines offering onward connection to Heathrow via Colombo on 03 May. Please get in touch with British High Commission on BHC.MaleGeneral@fco.gov.uk or direct message us on Twitter for details. Special permissions will need to be obtained to travel to the airport. For assistance with obtaining permissions, please contact us by calling +94 11 5390639 or speak to your hotel/resort management. Speak to your airline or travel company if you are still in Maldives. If you are still in Maldives, please register with the British High Commission by emailing BHC.MaleGeneral@fco.gov.uk or direct messaging on Twitter.
We know the lack of regular options is concerning for British people trying to leave Maldives. The UK government is working closely with airlines, the Maldivian authorities and other governments to make sure options are available for you to return to the UK as soon as possible.
What to do
If you cannot leave the Maldives at this time, you should:
Follow the advice of local authorities, including local measures to help minimise your risk of exposure to coronavirus
Find accommodation that’s suitable for your needs. If your accommodation is not available and you are being asked to leave, please contact us for consular assistance by calling +94 11 5390639 or Direct Message @UKinMaldives on Twitter
Keep in regular contact with family and friends at home, so they know you are safe and well
Continue to follow our travel advice
The British High Commission Male’ is issuing regular updates on Twitter with the latest available information for British nationals wishing to leave Maldives
See more information and advice about staying where you are if you cannot return to the UK.
Future travel options
The UK government is working closely with airlines, the Maldivians authorities and other government to make sure options are available for you to return to the UK as soon as possible.
This travel advice will be updated when departure options become available.
Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British High Commission on Twitter.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Your journey home
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British High Commission on +94 11 5390639.
The High Commission cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone. This page will be updated when departure options become available. To get the latest information, sign up for travel advice email alerts.
Further information
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
