

Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times. 
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Maldives  
Terrorist attacks in Maldives cannot be ruled out.
Attacks could be indiscriminate, including in places visited by foreign nationals. Stay aware of your surroundings, keep up to date with local media reports and follow the advice of local authorities.
The current conflict in Israel and Palestine has led to heightened tensions around the world. Terrorist groups, such as Al-Qaida and Daesh, have called on their supporters to carry out terrorist attacks in response. The conflict could also motivate individuals to carry out attacks, including in Maldives.
The Maldivian authorities have disrupted a number of terrorist attack plans since 2017 and have made several arrests relating to attack planning, recruitment of terrorist fighters and spreading extremist ideology. However, a risk from terrorism remains.
Examples of attacks in the last 5 years include:
in 2022, a politician was attacked with a knife and injured in the Hulhumalé area of Malé
in 2021, a high-profile politician and a number of bystanders were injured by the detonation of an improvised explosive device (IED) in central Malé
in 2020, an arson attack on a police speedboat in Laamu Gan
in 2020, knife attacks that injured 3 foreigners in Hulhumalé which were claimed by Daesh supporters
Political situation
Political protests take place occasionally in Malé. Avoid any protests or rallies to ensure your safety and security.  
Crime
Crime levels are low in the exclusive resort islands, but petty crime does happen. Do not leave items unattended on the beach or in unlocked hotel rooms.
Outside the resorts, there are incidents of gang-related violence including knife crime, mainly in Malé and in Hulhumalé. Avoid empty roads when on foot, particularly after dark.
Laws and cultural differences
Maldives is an Islamic country. It is illegal to publicly observe a religion other than Islam. Make sure that your actions do not offend, especially during Ramadan or when visiting religious areas around mosques. If you break local laws, you may get a prison sentence.
Ramadan
Ramadan is a holy month for Muslims. The dates vary by year and country. In 2025, Ramadan began on 1 March and finished on 29 March. In 2026, it may start on 18 or 19 February and last for 29 or 30 days.
During this time, do not eat, drink or smoke in public in the daytime, outside of holiday resorts.
Get more advice when you arrive from your tour guide, hotel or business contacts.
Alcohol laws and bans
Alcoholic drinks are only available on resort islands. Do not take any alcohol out of your resort. You can be arrested and deported for possessing and drinking alcohol, or being intoxicated outside resorts and on inhabited islands.    
Illegal drugs and prison sentences
Maldives has strong anti-drugs laws. Importing or possessing drugs carries severe penalties, including life imprisonment.
Wildlife, animal products and souvenirs
It is illegal to take tortoiseshell jewellery or ornaments, or pieces of coral out of Maldives. 
LGBT+ travellers
Same-sex relations are illegal and if you are convicted, you could get a fine or a lengthy prison sentence.    
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Local dress standards
You should be sensitive to local dress standards when outside holiday resorts, including on beaches used by locals. Men and women should:
have shoulders covered
avoid short or tight-fitting shorts
have arms and upper legs covered when bathing
Nudism and topless sunbathing are not allowed anywhere, including on resort islands.
Outdoor activities and adventure tourism
Swimming safety
The sea around Maldives can have strong tidal currents  that can drag you away from the shoreline. Over 8 British tourists have drowned since 2021.  It is important that you know the risks and what you can do to minimise them. 
You should read the security information provided by your tour operator and make yourself aware of local swimming conditions on arrival at the resort.  Keep in regular contact with resort staff to see if these conditions change. 
Only swim in well supervised areas, areas designated as safe for tourists, or where lifeguards are available.  Pay attention to warning signs or flags and avoid swimming in areas with strong currents, high waves or dangerous underwater conditions.  If something does not feel right, get out of the water at the earliest opportunity. 
Being aware of the potential dangers will help you to stay safe. Always take local advice before going into the sea.
See water safety on holiday from the Royal Life Saving Society.
Scuba diving
Many resort islands are more than an hour away from the nearest hyperbaric chamber. Make sure you understand how your dive operator would get you to one of the 3 chambers in the islands. 
Transport risks
Road travel
If you are planning to drive a car in Maldives, see information on driving abroad.
You’ll need to have both the correct version of the international driving permit (IDP) and your UK driving licence with you in the car. You cannot buy an IDP outside the UK, so get one before you travel.
Hire car companies often have stricter requirements for their customers, such as a year of driving experience and minimum age 20 or 21.
Sea travel
There is a high risk of piracy and armed robbery in the Gulf of Aden and Indian Ocean.
There have been attacks on local fishing sailing vessels (dhows) in the Gulf of Aden and Horn of Africa.
If you’re travelling by sea, read about the regional risks at sea.
Most of the island resorts are accessible by boat. Pay attention to safety briefings when taking any boat trips. Make sure life jackets are provided, especially on smaller excursion boats. Some tour guides may be able to advise on the safety record and registration of boats.
Extreme weather and natural disasters
Flooding
Flash flooding can affect low-lying islands during periods of heavy rain. Follow the advice of the local authorities.
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards.
