This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Maldives as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Maldives to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Registering with the British High Commission
If you are still in Maldives, register with the British High Commission by emailing BHC.MaleGeneral@fco.gov.uk.
Moving around in Maldives
A Public Health Emergency is in place until 29 June.
The curfew in the Greater Male’ area which includes Male’, Vilimale’ and Hulhumale’ has been extended for 14 days, effective from 1 July to 14 July. From 1 July, there are no movement restrictions within the Greater Male’ area from 0500 to 2300 (local time). Outside of these times movement is restricted to authorised personnel only. Travel to the Greater Male’ region from islands without confirmed cases of COVID-19 is now allowed. When travelling from Male’ to other islands, there is a mandatory 14 day quarantine upon arrival at your destination.
There are no travel restrictions between islands without COVID-19 cases. Travel to and from islands with confirmed COVID-19 cases is restricted. Public and mass gatherings have been banned throughout Maldives, including parties and rallies. Gatherings of over 30 people are not allowed in public spaces and a distance of three feet must be maintained with others when going out. Use of masks is mandatory for all closed spaces and public spaces and areas ,
Movement between resorts and islands will be permitted without quarantine requirements from 1 August when guest houses for tourists are due to open. All excursion activities (such as day trips to picnic islands, fishing and dolphin watching) from all islands, resorts, safaris and guesthouses are now banned across the country until further notice.
Public spaces such as parks or sports grounds are open with hand hygiene measures and washing stations in place.
Accommodation
Guest houses will open in July for local residents on COVID-19 free islands, and will be opened for tourists from 1 August.
Resorts are expected to reopen for tourists from 15 July. Until then, all resorts not working with the Government of Maldives for emergencies will close (once all the remaining guests have departed).
Health
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Maldives.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Maldives, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
