The Government of Maldives has announced a ban on entry into Maldives of anyone who has left or transited the UK in the last 14 days, with effect from 11.59 pm local time (6.59 pm GMT) on 18 March. Like Maldivian nationals returning to Maldives from the UK, British Nationals with residency in Maldives and who have a Maldivian spouse will be admitted and placed into quarantine. This does not affect British Nationals already in Maldives who should follow the advice of local authorities.
The new travel restrictions are likely to affect commercial flight schedules. We recommend that British travellers who wish to leave contact their airline or travel company to ensure their travel plans can be met.
There have been confirmed cases of coronavirus (COVID-19) in Maldives. Restrictions may be imposed at short notice: contact your tour operator or resort island ahead of travel.
The Government of Maldives has declared a Public Health Emergency, effective until 10 April. For 14 days, effective from 14 March, travel from and to resorts from all inhabited islands is suspended. Excursions to islands other than the one in which you are resident are being limited, and public spaces like parks or sports grounds are temporarily closed. From 17 March, guest houses and city hotels on all islands across Maldives are banned from accepting any new bookings for 14 days. This ban does not affect guests currently checked-in to any facilities. Speak to your tour operator for further information.
All cruise ships are currently banned from entering and docking in the Maldives. Effective from 20 March, entry of all safari boats, yachts and other passenger vessels arriving to Maldives from an overseas location is restricted indefinitely. In addition to the UK, all persons who have been in the last 14 days to Mainland China (not including Hong Kong), Iran, South Korea (North Gyeongsang and South Gyeongsang Provinces), Italy, Bangladesh, Spain (all provinces and regions), Germany (Bavaria, North Rhine-Westphalia and Baden-Württemberg), France (Île-de-France and Grand Est) and Malaysia are not allowed to enter or transit through the Maldives. Passengers and airline crew must fill-in a Health Declaration Card and an Immigration Arrival Card before arriving in the Maldives and undergo a screening procedure. See Health.
Most visits to Maldives are trouble free. The most common problems faced by visiting British nationals are lost and stolen passports, and swimming and diving related accidents. See Safety and security
You will need a visa to enter Maldives. See Visas
Terrorists are likely to try to carry out attacks in the Maldives. See Terrorism
In February 2020, the Maldives police confirmed the arrest of seven people in relation to knife attacks, which injured three foreign nationals; two resident employees and one tourist in Hulhumale. The attack was claimed by an extremist group. You should remain vigilant.
Political protests in the capital Male’ take place occasionally. You should exercise caution and avoid any protests or rallies. Outlying islands, resorts or Male’ International Airport are not usually affected by protests or rallies. See Political situation
UK health authorities have classified Maldives as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For more information and advice visit the National Travel Health Network and Centre website
Take care of your valuables and other personal possessions, and be aware of the risk of street crime. See Crime
Consular support may be limited as there are no dedicated consular staff in Maldives. However, appropriate assistance is available through the Honorary Consul or through the British High Commission in Colombo, Sri Lanka.
Take out comprehensive travel and medical insurance before you travel.
