Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Kiribati on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
All commercial flights to and from Kiribati have been suspended. The Government of Kiribati has arranged occasional repatriation flights but these too are currently suspended following two positive COVID-19 cases in Kiribati in mid-May 2021. It is unclear when repatriation or commercial flights will resume.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Kiribati.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Healthcare in Kiribati
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Kiribati
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Kiribati
Wherever possible British nationals should aim to be vaccinated in the country where they live. As further information is available about the national vaccination programme, this page will be updated. Sign up to get email notifications.
In May 2021 Kiribati began receiving doses of the AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine under the global COVAX facility. Initial batches are used for essential workers and the most vulnerable, such as the elderly and those with certain medical conditions. Roll-out is coordinated by the Kiribati Ministry of Health with support from UNICEF. Information is available from the Ministry of Health, the Government’s social media posts on Facebook, via your local health provider and via local media.
The Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) is the UK authority responsible for assessing the safety, quality and efficacy of vaccines. It has authorised the Pfizer/BioNTech, Oxford/AstraZeneca, Moderna and Janssen (Johnson and Johnson) vaccines for temporary supply and use in the UK. Find out more about MHRA approval for these vaccines.
British nationals living overseas should seek medical advice from their local healthcare provider in the country where they reside. Information about vaccines used in other national programmes, including regulatory status, should be available from the local authorities. This list of Stringent Regulatory Authorities recognised by the World Health Organisation may also be a useful source of additional information. Find out more information about the COVID-19 vaccines on the World Health Organization COVID-19 vaccines page.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
See the Kiribati Ministry of Health and Medical Services for more information
