

This information is for people travelling on a full ‘British citizen’ passport from the UK. It is based on the UK government’s understanding of Kiribati’s current rules for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Kiribati set and enforce entry rules. If you’re not sure how these requirements apply to you, contact the Fiji High Commission in the UK.
COVID-19 rules
There are no COVID-19 testing or vaccination requirements for travellers entering Kiribati.
Passport validity requirements
To enter Kiribati, your passport must have an ‘expiry date’ at least 6 months after the date you arrive and have at least 2 blank pages.
Check with your travel provider that your passport and other travel documents meet requirements. Renew your passport if you need to.
You will be denied entry if you do not have a valid travel document or try to use a passport that has been reported lost or stolen.
Visa requirements
You can visit Kiribati without a visa for up to one month.
You must hold a ticket for return or onward travel and enough funds for your stay.
The authorities will normally grant you a one-month stay on arrival. You can apply for one-month extensions, up to a maximum of 3 extra months, from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Immigration in Bairiki. Your passport must remain valid to extend your stay.
Departure tax
You must pay a 20 Australian dollar departure tax at the airport.
Vaccine requirements
For details about medical entry requirements and recommended vaccinations, see TravelHealthPro’s Kiribati guide.
Customs rules
There are strict rules about goods you can take into or out of Kiribati. You must declare anything that may be prohibited or subject to tax or duty.
There is a strict quarantine regime for importing food, plant and animal (including fish) products to Kiribati. For further information, contact:
Biosecurity Services
SPC-Plant Protection Service
Private Mail Bag
Suva, Fiji Islands
Phone: (679) 3370 733
Fax: (679) 3370 021
Email: pps@spc.int
Taking Kiribati handicrafts to Australia or New Zealand
Strict Australian or New Zealand import regulations may apply to some Kiribati handicrafts, including straw products and shells. Check Australia travel advice and New Zealand travel advice for details. You can get a phyto-sanitary certificate in Kiribati, but the customs authorities may still confiscate items.
