At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Coronavirus
There is an ongoing outbreak of coronavirus (COVID-19) in China and elsewhere. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Immigration of the Republic of Kiribati have introduced a number of precautionary measures:
All travellers from areas and territories in countries with local transmission of COVID-19 (Peoples Republic of China, Hong Kong, Macau, Tapei, Singapore, Japan, Republic of Korea, Malaysia, Vietnam, Australia, Thailand, USA, German, France, United Kingdom, Spain, UAE, Egypt and Italy) must spend at least 14 days in a country free of COVID-19 and provide medical clearance to confirm and/or prove their coronavirus free status.
In the event that travellers arrive earlier than the required 14-day period, health quarantine measures may be applied and deportation to the country of travel origin may be considered, depending on the health status of the individual
If you need further information about entry requirements, contact the local immigration authorities or the nearest Kiribati High Commission. You should also check with your airline or travel company for the latest information.
Further advice is available from Public Health England, and the TravelHealthPro website.
Medical treatment
Medical facilities at the general hospital in Tarawa are modest. Elsewhere, clinics are generally staffed by nurse practitioners. Pharmaceuticals and prescription medicines are generally not available. You should bring any medicines you need for existing medical conditions with you. Medical evacuation from Kiribati is required for most non-basic medical problems. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation/evacuation by air ambulance.
Health risks
Dengue fever, which is transmitted by mosquitoes, occurs in Kiribati. The Ministry of Health and Medical Services has reported an increase of “dengue-like illness” outbreak (DLI) in South Tarawa. You should follow the advice of NaTHNaC.
There have been several reported cases of tuberculosis.
Drink or use only boiled or bottled water and avoid ice in drinks. Avoid eating local shellfish or lagoon fish on Tarawa.
There have been reports of visitors being bitten by stray dogs. Be vigilant, particularly on the beach. If you are approached by a dog, do not run. Reaching down as if to pick up something off the ground can be enough to scare dogs away. If you are bitten seek medical attention immediately.
If you need emergency medical assistance in Kiribati, dial 999, then ask for the specific number (994 - medical emergency, 993 - fire, 992 - police). You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
