

Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.   
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Kiribati
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Kiribati, attacks cannot be ruled out.
Laws and cultural differences
Personal ID
You must always be able to show an official form of ID such as your passport. The police will usually accept a printed copy.
Illegal drugs and prison sentences
Possession or trafficking of drugs is a serious offence in Kiribati, and prison sentences may be heavy.
Public nudity
You should respect local customs about dress, including swimming costumes. Local laws ban public nudity and revealing swimming costumes.
LGBT+ travellers
Same-sex sexual acts are illegal. If found guilty, the penalty could be up to 14 years imprisonment.   
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Internet and phone services
Internet and mobile phone services are available in some parts of Kiribati. Not all of the outer islands are connected. Services can be unreliable and expensive because of the country’s remote location.
Stray dogs
Stray dogs have bitten visitors. Be cautious, particularly on the beach. If a dog approaches you, do not run. Reaching down as if to pick up something off the ground can be enough to scare dogs away. If a dog bites you, seek medical attention immediately.
Money
Very few places accept credit cards in Kiribati. There are ATMs at branches of the Bank of Kiribati and ANZ in Betio, Bairiki and Bikenibeu on Tarawa atoll.
Outdoor activities and adventure tourism
Swimming and boating safety
Do not swim in the lagoon in south Tarawa, as it is highly polluted.
Take great care when swimming in the sea around Kiribati. There are very strong rip tides along coast and reef areas.
Always wear safety equipment during boating trips. Squalls can happen at very short notice.
See water safety on holiday from the Royal Life Saving Society.
Transport risks
Road travel
If you are planning to drive in Kiribati, see information on driving abroad.
You can use a UK photocard driving licence to drive in Kiribati. If you still have a paper driving licence, you may need to update it to a photocard licence or get the correct version of the international driving permit (IDP) as well.  
Road conditions are poor on Tarawa, but driving standards are reasonable. Minibuses can be dangerously overloaded.
Extreme weather and natural disasters
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards.
Flooding
During the wet season, which normally runs from November to April, there can be strong winds and sea swells. Flooding and coastal inundation can cause disruption to essential services and infrastructure.
Monitor regional and international weather updates from the World Meteorological Organization, the Fiji Meteorological Service and local newspapers.
Droughts
There can be severe droughts in Kiribati. The authorities may put water restrictions in place.
