Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Algeria on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
From 1 June 2021, a gradual re-opening of borders began. However, there remain severe limitations on routes into and out of Algeria. See Entry requirements for further information on rules for entry to Algeria.
A limited commercial flight schedule is operating. Air Algerie is operating a limited number of flights between Algeria and Tunisia, France, Spain, Turkey and Germany. There has been high initial demand for these flights – you should take this into account when making travel arrangements.
Air France has been operating special repatriation flights between Algiers and Paris and between Oran and Paris. Contact Air France for more details via their Algeria website or call centre.
Lufthansa has been operating special repatriation flights between Algiers and Frankfurt. For more information, send an email to lufthansa.algerie@dlh.de.
Air Italia has been operating special repatriation flights between Algiers and Rome. For more information, visit the Italian Embassy in Algeria’s website or send an email to wassila.boussad@alitalia.com or mourad.nichenache@alitalia.com.
Qatar Airways and Turkish Airlines have been operating regular flights out of Algiers. Contact them via their websites for more information.
Although limited flights have been operating from Algeria to a number of countries, some of those countries have imposed updated restrictions of their own on travel to and from the UK. Contact your travel operator before making any booking and consult FCDO Travel Advice for the most up to date information.
As indirect routes to the UK can require an overnight stay, you should consult FCDO Travel Advice for further information on entry and transit requirements.
Many airlines continue to show an online schedule of flights which appear bookable but are later cancelled at very short notice with replacements at greater cost. We advise that for any flights, individuals who wish to make a booking should contact the airline directly and receive confirmation from them that the schedule will be running.
If you are a British passport holder currently in Algeria and want to return to the UK, you can book a seat on one of these flights. You will also need to arrange onward transfer to the UK.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Algeria.
Travel in Algeria
Travel between provinces is now permitted though public transport options remain limited.
A curfew is in effect from midnight to 4am in 19 provinces including the capital Algiers. The other provinces covered by the curfew are: Adrar, Laghouat, Batna, Bejaia, Blida, Tébessa, Tizi-Ouzou, Jijel, Sétif, Sidi Bel Abbes, Constantine, M’Sila, Ouargla, Oran, Boumerdes, El Oued, Tipaza and Touggourt.
Since 1 July 2020, local authorities nationwide have powers to enact additional measures in cluster areas, with the approval of central authorities. As a result, localised lockdowns are possible, and markets and other areas with a high concentration of shops could be shut down with limited notice for at least 15 days.
All security services and local authorities have been instructed to rigorously monitor and enforce compliance with preventive and other social distancing measures. Penalties include fines up to the equivalent of £600, and 6 months imprisonment.
The wearing of facemasks became mandatory on 24 May 2020 in all public spaces, including when using public transport, and within taxis.
Accommodation
Some hotels are open, with compulsory sanitary measures in place; facilities may be restricted. There are designated hotels for arrivals to complete the required quarantine on arrival.
Public places and services
Mosques, restaurants, parks and cafes were permitted to reopen from 15 August 2020. This is conditional on social distancing and sanitary measures being in place. Mask wearing is obligatory and air conditioning and fans are banned.
Universities began reopening from 23 August 2020 to complete studies from the previous year. The new term began on 15 December 2020. Primary schools opened on 21 October 2020, and middle and high schools reopened on 4 November 2020.
Local restrictions may be imposed on gatherings such as weddings and funerals.
Healthcare in Algeria
If you think you have COVID-19 symptoms, you should call a toll free number (3030) which is available nationwide to alert and help deal with COVID-19 cases. Local authorities will also advise.
Algeria has 32 laboratories nationwide that can carry out approximately 2,500 PCR COVID-19 tests every day.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Algeria.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
In areas with high numbers of COVID-19 cases, there have been some reports of hospitals coming close to treatment capacity.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Algeria
Wherever possible British nationals should aim to be vaccinated in their country of residence. As further information is available about the national vaccination programme, this page will be updated. Sign up to get email notifications.
The Algerian authorities have issued guidance on how to get a vaccine in Algeria (only available in Arabic and French). The guidance includes information on how you can register if you live in Algeria. You can also arrange a vaccination at local health care centres.
The Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) is the UK authority responsible for assessing the safety, quality and efficacy of vaccines. It has currently authorised the Pfizer/BioNTech, Oxford/AstraZeneca and Moderna vaccines for temporary supply and use in the UK. Find out more about MHRA approval for these vaccines.
British nationals living overseas should seek medical advice from their local healthcare provider in the country where they reside. Information about vaccines used in other national programmes, including regulatory status, should be available from the local authorities. This list of Stringent Regulatory Authorities recognised by the World Health Organisation may also be a useful source of additional information. Find out more about COVID-19 vaccines on the World Health Organisation COVID-19 vaccines page.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements. You should contact local authorities for information on testing facilities (only available in French).
Further information
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
