This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Algeria set and enforce entry rules. For further information contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to. You should also consider checking with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Entry rules in response to coronavirus
Entry to Algeria
Air, land and sea borders are now partially open.
You should check with the Algerian authorities for any entry requirements including exemptions. Previous restrictions on who could enter Algeria were removed on 1 June.
Testing/screening on arrival
You should check with the Algerian authorities for any entry requirements including COVID testing.
Following the partial reopening on 1 June, entry to Algeria by air requires evidence of a negative PCR test taken less than 36 hours before the time of arrival. By sea, you need evidence of a negative PCR test taken less than 48 hours before the time of arrival. You should have a printed paper copy of your results. All travellers will also have to complete an antigen test on arrival in Algeria. Antigen tests must be paid for in cash. All travellers must bring sufficient cash with them as there are no opportunities to withdraw cash before the antigen test. Payment must be made of either 10 Euros, 12 US Dollars, or 1,600 Algerian Dinar.
You should not use the NHS testing service to get a test in order to facilitate your travel to another country. You should arrange to take a private test.
Temperature checks may be undertaken on arrival.
Quarantine requirements
Check with the Algerian authorities for any entry requirements including quarantine requirements.
Data collection
Contact details are taken on arrival in country, including address.
Testing on departure
Temperature checks are taken before entering the airport.
Regular entry requirements
Visas
Before you travel, you will need to get a visa from the Algerian Consulate in London. You can’t get a visa on arrival. You should check the details of your visa, including validity dates, before travelling. Should you overstay the duration of your visa or the time you are permitted to stay in country as granted upon arrival, you are likely to be detained by the immigration police at the airport whilst attempting to exit Algeria. This may result in a criminal prosecution and up to 3 months in jail. If you need to stay in Algeria for a longer period than your visa or entry stamp allows, you may be able to extend your visa at the Wilaya (Town Hall) nearest to you.
If you are a British national stuck in Algeria due to coronavirus and your visa is close to expiry, you need to email the British Embassy at algiers.consular@fcdo.gov.uk.
Algerian border
The land border between Algeria and Morocco is closed. Don’t attempt to cross it.
Passport validity
Your passport should be valid for a minimum period of 6 months from the date of entry into Algeria.
Leaving Algeria
When exiting Algeria, the Algerian authorities usually require sight of the document you used to enter the country. In the event that your passport was lost or stolen during your stay in Algeria, you will need to present a police report to the border police to show why you are no longer in possession of the passport you used to enter Algeria.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents are accepted for airside transit and exit from Algeria. If you’re using a UK Emergency Travel Document to enter Algeria, you would still need a valid entry visa.
Travel with children
In Algeria, the age of majority (when a child is legally recognised as an adult) is 19 years and 1 day old. Any person under this age whose father is an Algerian citizen will be regarded as Algerian if the father’s name is on the birth certificate. Any such child leaving Algeria without the father will only be able to travel if the father signs an ‘Autorisation Paternelle’ or, if travelling with just one parent, the parent (whether mother or father) will be expected to prove their parental link through a Livret de famille or a certified copy. Unaccompanied minors will need a letter from their parent or guardian granting them permission to travel out of the country.
For further information on exactly what will be required at immigration, contact the Algerian Consulate in London.
