Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

There are currently no commercial options available to return to the UK from Algeria.
Flights
On 22 April there will be a flight from Algiers to London Gatwick for stranded British tourists, short term visitors and their direct dependants to return to the UK. The cost of the flight is £279 per person.
If you wish to apply to travel on this flight, visit the SportsBreaks website as soon as possible. Bookings will be confirmed on 20 April.
Tickets will not be on sale at the airport.
To make a booking, you will need:
full passport and contact details for each traveller you are registering
your UK home address and postcode
your means of payment, such as credit or debit card details
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Arrival in the UK
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Future travel options
The UK government is working closely with airlines, the Algerian authorities and other governments to make sure options are available for you to return to the UK as soon as possible.
This travel advice will be updated when departure options become available. Sign up for travel advice email alerts for Algeria and follow the British Embassy on Twitter and Facebook.
If you’re a British national normally resident in the UK, visiting Algeria, email Consular Services at the British Embassy in Algiers with your contact details. For each person in your party, provide:
name and date of birth
passport number
current location
contact details (email and telephone)
and if you hold another nationality please stipulate which
The British Embassy will not reply to individual emails, but will contact you when further information is available.
If you cannot leave Algeria at this time, you should:
follow the advice of local authorities, including local measures to help minimise your risk of exposure to coronavirus.
find accommodation that’s suitable for your needs.
keep in regular contact with family and friends at home, so they know you are safe and well.
See more information and advice about staying where you are if you cannot return to the UK.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British Embassy at algiers.consular@fco.gov.uk or call 0770085000.
The Embassy cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone. This page will be updated when departure options become available. To get the latest information, sign up for email alerts for Algeria travel advice.
Further information
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
