!
Warning
FCDO advises against all travel to parts of Algeria.

Terrorism  
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.      
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad. 
Terrorism in Algeria 
Terrorists are likely to try to carry out attacks in Algeria.  
Terrorist attacks have often focused on the Algerian state, but attacks could be indiscriminate and target foreigners. There is also a risk that lone actors target foreigners. You should remain vigilant at all times and follow specific advice and direction of the local security authorities. 
The threat from terrorism is higher in some parts of the country, including: 
the southern border, where the kidnap risk is concentrated 
the Libyan and Tunisian borders 
rural, and in particular mountainous, areas in the north and between Tunisia and Algiers 
the Sahara 
The Algerian authorities continue to conduct effective counter-terrorism operations to disrupt terrorist activity but there’s a continuing threat of further terrorist attacks.  
The main terrorist threat is from Al-Qaida in the Islamic Maghreb (AQIM) and other regional Islamist groups including Al Murabitun and Daesh affiliates. There’s also a threat from individuals inspired by Daesh. These groups have been active across the country and pose a threat throughout Algeria, including in Algiers and other major cities. 
Recent significant attacks include: 
in 2021, a solider killed by an improvised explosive device (IED) in Tlemcen Province 
in 2021, 2 soldiers killed by an IED in Ain Defla Province 
in 2021, 2 soldiers killed in Tipasa Province 
in 2020, an Algerian soldier killed in an ambush in Ain Defla, north-west Algeria – AQIM is reported to have claimed responsibility 
in 2020, an Algerian soldier killed in a suicide attack in Timeaouine, close to the Malian border – Daesh is reported to have claimed responsibility 
in 2019, 2 alleged IS members killed by the Algerian army in the southern Tamanrasset region – Daesh reported this same incident as an attack killing 8 Algerian security force members 
Indiscriminate attacks are not common, but in 2021 IED explosions seriously injured 3 civilians in Tebessa and Batna. Also in 2021, a roadside bomb killed 5 Algerian citizens in Telidjane, Tebessa Province, on the border with Tunisia. Al-Qaida claimed responsibility for placement of the landmines but denied they were targeting civilians. 
Terrorist kidnap 
There is a threat of kidnapping by groups operating in North Africa, particularly from Libya, Mauritania and groups originating in the Sahel. This includes AQIM and Daesh-affiliated groups, who may travel across the region’s porous border. There is a heightened risk of kidnap in border and remote desert areas of North Africa, particularly in the southern and eastern border areas (bordering Mali and Libya respectively). Terrorist groups have kidnapped foreigners, government officials and civilians in the region for financial gain and for political leverage.  
British nationals are seen as legitimate targets, including tourists, humanitarian aid workers, journalists and business travellers. If you are kidnapped, the reason for your presence is unlikely to protect you or secure your safe release.  
The long-standing policy of the British government is to not make substantive concessions to hostage takers. The British government considers that paying ransoms and releasing prisoners increases the risk of further hostage taking. The Terrorism Act (2000) also makes payments to terrorists illegal.
Regional risks
Ongoing hostilities in the region and between Israel and Iran could escalate quickly and pose security risks for the wider region. 
You should:
monitor local and international media for the latest information
be vigilant and follow the instructions of local authorities
Political situation  
Demonstrations and other forms of protest are subject to various restrictions. You should take precautions for your personal safety by avoiding political gatherings and demonstrations. Follow instructions given by local security authorities. 
Algeria-Morocco border 
The land border between Algeria and Morocco is closed. Do not attempt to cross it. 
Crime 
Protecting yourself and your belongings 
There is a risk of pickpocketing, robbery and petty theft in the larger cities in Algeria.  
You can take precautions such as: 
avoiding areas that you do not know, especially after dark in the suburbs  
not carrying large amounts of money or valuables 
not accepting lifts from people you do not know – use a taxi service recommended by your hotel 
Maintain at least the same level of personal security awareness as in the UK and take care when walking or travelling alone. 
If you plan to tour the Casbah area of Algiers, use a good local guide and make sure your hosts or hotel know your plans.  
You should check the latest guidance of local authorities before moving around the country. 
Security escorts 
The Algerian authorities devote considerable resources to the safety of foreign visitors. There’s a clear security presence, which can feel intrusive. If you travel outside major cities, the authorities may want to know your plans. They may assign police or gendarmes to protect you. 
Laws and cultural differences  
Personal ID 
You do not have to carry your passport at all times, but take it with you on longer journeys. You must have your passport if you travel inside Algeria by air. Keep copies of your passport’s photo page and your visa or entry stamp in a separate place. 
Ramadan  
Ramadan is a holy month for Muslims. The dates vary by year and country. During this time, do not:  
eat, drink, smoke or chew gum in public in the daytime, including in your car  
play loud music or dance  
swear in public  
Get more advice when you arrive from your tour guide, hotel or business contacts.  
You should also:  
check opening hours of shops and restaurants  
be aware that if hotels and restaurants are providing food or drink in fasting hours, they may separate you from Islamic guests, for example with screens  
be aware that most restaurants do not serve alcohol  
follow local dress codes – clothing that does not meet local dress codes may cause more offence at this time  
be aware that fasting can cause tiredness, particularly during the later afternoon and early evening 
be patient and show tolerance 
Alcohol laws  
It is illegal to be under the influence of alcohol in a public place. 
Illegal drugs and prison sentences 
It is illegal to possess, use or traffic controlled drugs. If you’re convicted, you may get a prison sentence. 
Mobile phone coverage 
Mobile phone coverage can be patchy or unavailable in more remote areas, particularly in the south of Algeria. Some online maps may not be accurate in remote areas. 
Using cameras in secure areas 
It is illegal to take photos of government buildings or security installations, including police checkpoints.  
LGBT+ travellers 
Sexual acts between people of the same sex are illegal in Algeria. 
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers. 
Family law and child custody
Algerian family law is different from UK law. Mothers cannot renew their children’s passports without written consent from the father.
If you’re a dual British-Algerian national, see our guidance on child custody.
Forced marriage
If you’re a dual British-Algerian national, see our guidance on forced marriage.
If you have concerns, get legal advice before you travel to Algeria or agree to family members travelling to Algeria.
Transport risks  
Road travel  
If you are planning to drive in Algeria, see information on driving abroad. 
You can use a UK photocard driving licence to drive in Algeria for up to 3 months after you first arrive. If you still have a paper driving licence, you may need to update it to a photocard licence or get the correct version of the international driving permit (IDP) as well.  
The Algerian authorities may ask to see an IDP. You cannot buy an IDP outside the UK, so get one before you travel.   
If you are planning to hire a car, check with your car hire company for information on their requirements before you travel. 
Road conditions and safety 
Algeria has a very high road traffic accident rate and driving can be erratic.  
There is very little lane discipline and often confusion about the right of way, especially at roundabouts. Take particular care when crossing roads on foot, even where there is a signal allowing you to do so. 
Be cautious driving on minor roads, particularly at night outside towns. Roads and vehicles may not have lighting. 
In Algeria roads can have: 
sand drifts – slow down as you approach these 
large potholes, which can appear quickly, particularly after heavy rain 
large speed bumps 
At military or police checkpoints, approach slowly, do not cross boundaries without permission and be prepared to show photo ID if asked. 
Check the availability of petrol stations before travelling long distances in remote areas. 
Taxis 
If you are taking a taxi, ask your hotel to phone a reputable firm and do not allow unknown passengers to join you. Ask the driver to collect you for the return journey as taxis are not widely available, particularly after dark. 
Rail travel 
Rail travel is generally safe, although safety standards tend to be lower than those in the UK. There is a risk of petty crime on trains. 
Extreme weather and natural disasters 
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards. 
Wildfires 
Summer wildfires caused significant damage and numerous deaths in towns east of Algiers in 2023, 2022 and 2021. Similar fires could flare up without warning, especially during periods of extreme weather. Follow local advice and avoid travelling to areas where fires may break out. 
Flooding 
Parts of Algeria are prone to severe and dangerous flood damage. There have been instances where people have been killed, houses submerged and cars swept away.  
Earthquakes 
Earthquakes are a risk in the northern part of Algeria, including Algiers.  
In May 2003, a severe earthquake struck the Algiers area. There were over 2,200 dead and more than 10,000 injured. Smaller earthquakes happen regularly. In July 2014, an earthquake killed 6 people and injured 420. 
The US Federal Emergency Management Agency website has advice about what to do before, during and after an earthquake. 
