Coronavirus guidance is being updated.
Read what you can and cannot do

This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Algeria as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Algeria to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Algeria
From 24 April, the timing of the curfew in Algiers and 8 other wilayas (Ain Defla, Medea, Setif, Oran, Tizi Ouzou, Tipaza, Bejaia and Tlemcen) was amended, and now runs from 5pm to 7am. The full lockdown in the wilaya of Blida was lifted, and replaced with a curfew from 2pm to 7am. The original 7pm to 7am curfew remains in force for all 38 remaining wilayas.
Across the country, schools, nurseries, universities and mosques have closed; sporting events have been cancelled and many public amenities and public spaces have been shut to the public.
Visas
If you are stuck in Algeria and your visa is close to expiry, email the British Embassy at: algiers.consular@fco.gov.uk.
Health
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Algeria.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Algeria, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
