Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

Coronavirus: stay up to date
Cases of coronavirus (COVID-19) have been confirmed in Algeria. See information on measures introduced in Algeria to limit the spread of the virus. Find out how to return to the UK from Algeria.
See coronavirus travel advice for guidance on international travel.
Sign up for email alerts for Algeria travel advice.
The Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) is advising British nationals against all non-essential international travel at this time. Existing advice for Algeria remains in place:
The FCO advise against all travel to areas within:
30km of the borders with Libya, Mauritania, Mali and Niger
30km of the border with Tunisia in the provinces of Illizi and Ouargla and in the Chaambi mountains area
The FCO advise against all but essential travel to:
within 30km of the remainder of the border with Tunisia.
The Algerian authorities have introduced measures to limit the spread of coronavirus. As of 19 March all international flights to and from Algeria were suspended. All land borders are now closed and ferry services are suspended. A nationwide curfew is in effect from 7pm to 7am, with an extended curfew in 9 wilayas from 3pm to 7am. The wilaya of Blida remains under full lockdown. All schools, nurseries, universities and mosques have closed; sporting events have been cancelled; public amenities and public spaces have been shut to the public. See Coronavirus
There will be a flight from Algiers to London on 26 April. This is likely to be the last UK-bound flight from Algiers until normal commercial services resume. For information on how to book, see Return to the UK.
Following an attack on the coalition base at Taji in Iraq on 11 March, and subsequent US airstrikes, tensions may be raised across the region. There is a possibility of an increased threat against Western interests, including against British nationals. You should remain vigilant and keep up to date with the latest developments, including via the media and this travel advice.
Country-wide demonstrations and other forms of protest, which broke out across Algeria in February 2019 have been suspended due to the coronavirus. See Political situation
Terrorists are very likely to try to carry out attacks in Algeria, including kidnappings. Terrorist attacks have focused on the Algerian state, but attacks could be indiscriminate and include foreigners. There’s also a risk that lone actors could target foreigners. You should be vigilant at all times and take additional security precautions, especially in: towns and cities; the southern, Libyan and Tunisian border areas; rural and mountainous areas in the north; and the Sahara. See Terrorism
The Algerian authorities devote considerable resources to the safety of foreign visitors. If you’re travelling independently, you should notify the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or local authorities of your plans. See Local travel
When moving around Algiers and the other main cities, avoid areas that you don’t know, especially after dark. Travelling in rural areas and at night is particularly risky and it’s always advisable to travel with a reputable guide or companion in these areas. Avoid travel by road at night outside the major cities and motorways. See Crime and Local travel
You will need to get a visa before you travel. See Visas
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission. Consular support is severely limited in parts of Algeria where the FCO has existing advice against all travel, and limited where the FCO has existing advice against all but essential travel (see above).
The Overseas Business Risk service offers information and advice for British companies operating overseas on how to manage political, economic, and business security-related risks.
Take out comprehensive travel and medical insurance before you travel.
