Terrorists are likely to try to carry out attacks in Algeria, including kidnappings.
Terrorist attacks have often focussed on the Algerian state, but attacks could be indiscriminate and target foreigners. There is also a risk that lone actors target foreigners. You should remain vigilant at all times and follow specific advice and direction of the local security authorities.
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. You should remain vigilant at all times.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
A number of terrorist groups are present in Algeria. The largest presence is in the southern desert region and in areas bordering Tunisia, Libya, Niger, Mali and Mauritania. Terrorists also operate in small numbers in mountainous areas in the north. However, there remains a high risk of terrorist attacks throughout the country including in Algiers and other major cities, and against UK and Western interests. It is possible that terrorist groups will exploit targets of opportunity for attack or kidnap.
The main terrorist threat is from Al Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb (AQ-M) and other regional Islamist groups including Al Murabitun and Daesh-affiliates. There’s also a threat from individuals inspired by Daesh. These groups have been active across the country and pose a threat throughout Algeria, including in Algiers and other major cities.
The threat from terrorism is higher in some parts of the country:
the southern border (where the kidnap risk is concentrated)
the Libyan and Tunisian borders;
rural, and in particular mountainous, areas in the north and between Tunisia and Algiers;
the Sahara.
The Algerian authorities continue to conduct effective counter terrorism operations to disrupt terrorist activity but there’s a continuing threat of further terrorist attacks. You should be vigilant at all times.
There have been attacks against Algerian government interests and security forces, including:
On 14 October 2021, a soldier was killed by an Improvised Explosive Device whilst conducting a routine patrol in the province of Tlemcen
on 6 August 2021, two soldiers were killed by an Improvised Explosive Device whilst conducting a search and sweep operation in the province of Ain Defla
on 2 January 2021, two soldiers were killed whilst conducting a search and sweep operation in the province of Tipasa
on 20 June 2020, an ambush in Ain Defla, North West Algeria, led to the death of an Algerian army corporal. AQIM is reported to have claimed responsibility
on 9 February 2020, one Algerian soldier was killed in a suicide attack on a military outpost in Timeaouine, close to the Malian border. Daesh is reported to have claimed responsibility
on 18 November 2019, during an operation by the Algerian army in the southern Tamanrasset region, two alleged IS members were killed. Daesh have reported this same incident as an attack killing eight Algerian security forces
There have been attacks and threats made against foreign and economic interests, including oil and gas facilities:
on 18 March 2016, AQI-M attacked the In Salah Gas Joint Venture in central Algeria with explosive munitions fired from a distance. There were no injuries or casualties
on 16 January 2013 Al Murabitun attacked a gas plant near In Amenas killing 40 foreign workers, including 6 British nationals
Indiscriminate attacks are not common but on 8 October 2021, 3 civilians were seriously injured by IED explosions in Tebessa and Batna and on 16 January 2021, a roadside bomb killed 5 Algerian citizens in Telidjane, Tebessa province, on the border with Tunisia. Al Qaeda claimed responsibility for placement of the landmines, but denied that they were targeting civilians.
Kidnap
There is a kidnap threat to visitors in Algeria, particularly in the southern and eastern border areas (bordering Mali and Libya respectively). Terrorist kidnappers have previously targeted foreigners, government officials and civilians in Algeria and the Sahel region. See our Sahel page for information on the Sahel regional threat.
There is a threat of kidnapping by groups operating in North Africa, particularly from Libya, Mauritania and groups originating in the Sahel. This includes Al Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb (AQ-IM) and Daesh-affiliated groups, who may travel across the region’s porous border. There is a heightened risk of kidnap in border and remote desert areas of North Africa. Terrorist groups have kidnapped foreigners, government officials and civilians in the region for financial gain and for political leverage. Further kidnaps are likely.
Those engaged in tourism, humanitarian aid work, journalism or business sectors are viewed as legitimate targets. If you’re kidnapped, the reason for your presence is unlikely to serve as a protection or secure your safe release.
The long-standing policy of the British government is not to make substantive concessions to hostage takers. The British government considers that paying ransoms and releasing prisoners increases the risk of further hostage taking. The Terrorism Act (2000) also makes payments to terrorists illegal.
