Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Serbia on the TravelHealthPro website.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Serbia.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements. You should contact local authorities for information on testing facilities. The Serbian government has set up an online portal for booking tests (English ‘Engleski’ option is available from the drop down menu).
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for coronavirus while in Serbia, you will be required to self-isolate at an address of your choosing for at least 14 days, likely a hotel or private residence, at your own cost. You may be contacted by the authorities and be hospitalised if deemed medically necessary. Minors will be subject to the same regulations as adults.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Public spaces and services
There are nationwide rules in place restricting movement and limiting activity. It is mandatory to maintain physical distance of at least 1.5m in all public spaces. Protective face masks are mandatory in all public spaces indoors, and, outdoors when the area is crowded. Failure to wear a mask when required will incur a fine. Self-isolation, when required, will be enforced.
Indoor and outdoor gatherings are limited to 500 people, with the exception of certain events approved by the Government’s Crisis Response Team. Work organisations, schools and similar facilities are excluded from this but must limit numbers of people within the total square footage of the facility to 1 per 4sqm. Gyms, fitness clubs and spas must limit numbers to 16sqm per person. All other facilities that remain open must provide 8sqm per person.
Restaurants, cafes and bars are allowed to serve customers in their outdoor spaces without restrictions to opening hours, and indoors at reduced capacity, until 1am.
From 23rd October 2021, mandatory Covid passes will be introduced for entry into all indoor catering facilities – restaurants, bars, cafes – after 10pm. One of the following will need to be presented to enable entry:
Digital vaccination certificate with proof of vaccination no older than 7 months (local, EU, or a country with which Serbia has signed a bilateral agreement),
Negative PCR test result no older than 72 hours;
Negative antigen test result no older than 48 hours;
Confirmation of Covid-19 recovery, no older than 210 days.
Retail stores may operate without restrictions to opening hours. Cinema screening start times are extended to 11pm, and box offices may remain open until this time.
Additional rules and penalties vary in different towns and cities, and rules can change rapidly. You should follow the latest local guidance and check news outlets regularly for up to date information.
Further restrictions may be introduced, both nationwide and locally, including at short notice. Infringements of these procedures may result in fines and/or a prison sentence.
Healthcare in Serbia
The Serbian healthcare system is under increased pressure across the country due to high numbers of COVID-19 cases. It may be more difficult than usual to access satisfactory healthcare for any medical issue, including COVID-19. There are reports that it is difficult to obtain COVID-19 tests in the public health system, including for symptomatic individuals. Temporary additional hospitals are being established in some towns, including Belgrade, in order to admit COVID-19 patients.
The Serbian Ministry of Health website gives up to date information on the number of coronavirus cases confirmed and tests carried out in Serbia. It includes regional data maps. This website also includes helpline telephone numbers.
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Serbia.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Serbia
We will update this page when the Government of Serbia announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Serbian national vaccination programme started in January 2021 and is using the Sinopharm, Astra Zeneca, Pfizer-BioNTech and Sputnik V vaccines. The Government of Serbia has stated that British nationals resident in Serbia are eligible for vaccination if they choose to join the programme. The Serbian authorities have created an e-portal to register for a vaccine in Serbia (only available in Serbian). Serbian and foreign nationals are able to register on this portal.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in Serbia, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
