This page has information on travelling to Serbia. Check what you must do to return to the UK.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport from the UK, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Serbia set and enforce entry rules.
All travellers
All travellers should familiarise themselves with the entry rules for Serbia before travel.
If you’re fully vaccinated
If you’re fully vaccinated, you can enter Serbia without needing to test or quarantine.
Proof of vaccination status
Serbian citizens, foreign residents or foreign travellers may present proof that they have been fully vaccinated to enter Serbia.
Serbia will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 vaccination record and proof of COVID-19 vaccination issued in the Crown Dependencies. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
Serbia recognises vaccination records from a number of countries – for the full list, see the section ‘Entry Regime for Foreign Citizens’ on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs website.
If you’re not fully vaccinated
If you’re not fully vaccinated, you must provide:
proof of a negative PCR test result issued within 48 hours of arrival. Visitors travelling from the USA may also present an antigen FIA Rapid Test result. Tests cannot be taken on arrival
certificate of COVID-19 recovery which Serbia recognises as valid. The full list of recognised certificates is available on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs website. Serbia does not currently recognise the UK COVID Pass to demonstrate proof of recovery.
You should not use the NHS testing service to get a test in order to facilitate your travel to another country. You should arrange to take a private test. If you need further information about entry requirements, contact the local immigration authorities or the nearest Serbian Embassy or Consulate. You should also check with your airline or travel company for the latest information.
If you do not provide one of the above mentioned documents (proof of vaccination, PCR test or an EU COVID certificate with recovery test) you must spend 10 days in self-isolation at home following entry to Serbia. You must report to a healthcare centre within 24 hours of entering Serbia by registering on the e-Health portal.
If you have travelled outside Serbia and are returning within 48 hours, you may present a negative PCR test result issued from Serbia, provided it was issued within 48 hours prior to re-entry into Serbia.
If you’ve had COVID-19 in the past year
You can not use the UK COVID Pass to demonstrate proof of COVID-19 recovery when entering Serbia.
Children and young people
Children aged 12 and under are exempt from COVID-19 entry requirements, provided the parent/adult accompanying has complied with them.
Children aged 12 to 17 may enter Serbia under the rules for fully vaccinated or not fully vaccinated travellers. In addition they may enter without complying with those rules but must take a PCR or antigen test within 48 hours of arrival.
If you’re transiting through Serbia
Transiting is when you pass through one country on the way to your final destination.
Foreign nationals transiting through Serbia are exempt from COVID-19 entry requirements if the transiting period is under 12 hours.
Exemptions
Exemptions to Serbia’s COVID-19 entry requirements include:
citizens of Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Hungary, North Macedonia and Montenegro, entering Serbia directly from those countries
citizens or residents of Serbia when entering directly from the countries above and the Republic of Croatia
foreign nationals transiting Serbia (up to 12 hours). See ‘If you’re transiting through Serbia’
crew of international cargo (road and river) transport (time limits apply)
crews and cabin crews of aircraft arriving in and transiting Serbia
children aged 12 years and under, provided the parent/adult accompanying has complied with the entry requirements. See ‘Children and young people’
Further details can be found on the website of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
You should check with your travel provider to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Passport validity
Your passport should be valid for the proposed duration of your stay. No additional period of validity beyond this is required.
Visas
British passport holders don’t need a visa to visit Serbia for up to 90 days. For further information on entry and exit requirements, contact the Serbian Embassy in London.
If you wish to extend your stay in Serbia you will need to apply for temporary residence status at least 30 days before the 90 day period expires at the police station where you’re registered. For more information visit the website of the Serbian Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
When you enter Serbia, make sure you get an entry stamp in your passport. Temporary residents should have an exit-entry visa as well as a residence stamp. If you try to leave Serbia without an entry stamp or exit-entry visa you may face charges of illegal immigration, a heavy fine and possible imprisonment.
You should only enter Serbia through recognised border crossings. Serbian borders remain open for entry and exit, subject to any entry requirements currently in place in neighbouring countries.
Previous travel to Kosovo
The authorities in Serbia don’t consider the designated crossing points with Kosovo to be official ‘international’ border crossing points. Foreign nationals have been denied entry to Serbia if they have Republic of Kosovo stamps in their passports. You’re less likely to experience problems if you travel into Kosovo from Serbia and return via the same route, or if you travel via Albania, North Macedonia or Montenegro. For more information visit the website of the Serbian Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
Registration
It’s a legal requirement that you register with the local police in the town/city where you’re staying within 24 hours of your arrival in Serbia, unless you’re staying in a hotel where you will be registered automatically on checking-in. If you don’t register you could be fined, detained or face a court appearance.
Customs declarations
You will be required to declare money (including travellers’ cheques) in excess of €10,000 (or equivalent in other currencies) that you bring into Serbia. Customs officers hold declaration forms and will require a receipt of purchase for Dinars bought from a foreign bank.
On departure, you will need to return a certified copy of this declaration to customs so that money (up to the amount brought in but not exceeding €10,000 in value) can be taken out again. If you fail to comply with these rules, your money may be confiscated. In order to avoid customs charges, you will be required to declare items of value (eg jewellery, photographic and computing equipment) that you are temporarily bringing into Serbia.
For more information on declaration of money and the importation of goods see the Serbian Ministry for Foreign Affairs or the National Tourism Organisation of Serbia.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are accepted for entry, airside transit and exit from Serbia and as valid ID documents in Serbia. However, they should be valid for not less than 7 days and no more than 6 months.
Returning to the UK
Check what you must do to return to the UK.
