At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Coronavirus
A number of cases of coronavirus (COVID-19) have been confirmed in Serbia. The Serbian Government has announced a State of Emergency in response to the global pandemic of coronavirus (COVID-19). A number of measures to limit the spread of the virus have been introduced. Infringements of these procedures may result in fines and / or a prison sentence of up to twelve years.
The Serbian Ministry of Health website gives up to date information on the number of cases confirmed and tests carried out in Serbia. This website also includes helpline telephone numbers. The Serbian Government has announced a State of Emergency in response to the global pandemic of coronavirus (COVID-19), effective 15 March. It has announced the closure of all airports in Serbia to international passenger flights until further notice and has closed all borders, except for freight traffic. Following these measures, and those taken by neighbouring countries, there are now no commercial means of arriving in Serbia, or leaving Serbia to return to the UK.
The Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) therefore advises against all but essential travel to Serbia. British nationals should contact the Embassy if they need assistance. Countries neighbouring Serbia have also introduced restrictions. Please check country-specific FCO Travel Advice for details. Some exemptions have been identified, including international cargo transport by road or river (time limits apply when in transit).
Within Serbia, the authorities have announced:
•Nationwide curfew from 8pm - 5am, effective from 18 March
•Ban on gatherings over 5 people.
•Cancellation of public transport.
•Closure of all, schools, kindergartens and universities until further notice.
•People aged over 65 in urban areas and people over 70 in rural areas, may not leave their homes at any time until further notice.
•Closure of sporting facilities. Closure of shopping malls, restaurants, bars and cafesfa.
You should comply with any additional screening measures put in place by the authorities.
If you need further information about entry requirements, contact the local immigration authorities or the nearest Serbian Embassy or Consulate. You should also check with your airline or travel company for the latest information.
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
Other health risks
High levels of air pollution can occur in Serbia. You can find further information and advice on air quality on the World Health Organization (WHO) website and check air quality levels on the World Air Quality Index Website.
Since October 2017 there have been more than 3,000 cases of measles in Serbia and around 10 deaths from complications. The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) advise anyone travelling abroad to make sure they’re up to date with routine vaccination courses and boosters as recommended in the UK, including the measles-mumps-rubella (MMR) vaccine.
Over 100 cases of the West Nile virus have been reported in Serbia, (around half in Belgrade), with about a dozen fatalities. You should take adequate precautions to avoid being bitten by mosquitoes.
Local medical care
Some private clinics in Serbia offer treatment for addiction. You should seek advice from your local GP or health provider in the UK before undertaking such treatment.
There is a reciprocal healthcare agreement for British nationals visiting Serbia, which entitles you to free treatment for genuine emergencies. You’ll need to present a British passport, evidence of registration with the local police (if you’re not staying in a hotel) and a certificate confirming entitlement to benefit under the UK Social Security Acts. You can get this certificate from HM Revenue & Customs.
The health system in all parts of Serbia is suffering from widespread shortage of medicines and other essentials. For non-emergency treatment, or treatment that isn’t covered under reciprocal arrangements, payment in cash is normally required. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 194 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment. 
For general medical information in Serbia, visit the website of the Serbian Ministry of Health, or for Belgrade specific information visit the City of Belgrade website.
