Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

There are currently no commercial options available to return to the UK from Serbia as all airports in Serbia are closed to international passenger flights until further notice. All border crossings for road, rail and river transport are closed except for freight traffic.
We know this is concerning for British people trying to leave Serbia. The UK government is working closely with airlines, the Serbian authorities and other governments. We will inform British nationals, through our social media channels, once flight options become available. However, please note that there are no direct flights scheduled to depart Serbia to the UK for the foreseeable future.
What to do
If you cannot leave Serbia at this time, you should:
follow the advice of local authorities, including local measures to help minimise your risk of exposure to coronavirus
find accommodation that’s suitable for your needs
keep in regular contact with family and friends at home, so they know you are safe and well
See more information and advice about staying where you are if you cannot return to the UK.
Future travel options
Follow the British Embassy on Twitter and Facebook for the latest updates.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Arrival in the UK
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British Embassy on +381 11 306 0900.
The Embassy cannot provide information or advice about departure options over the phone. To get the latest information, follow the British Embassy on Twitter and Facebook
Further information
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
