

Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Serbia
Terrorist attacks in Serbia cannot be ruled out.
Attacks could be indiscriminate, including in places visited by foreigners. Terrorists may target religious sites, including churches. There may be increased security in place during festive periods and other major events that might attract large crowds. Remain vigilant and follow the advice of the local authorities.
In June 2024, a lone attacker fired at a police officer with a crossbow outside the Israeli Embassy in the Savski Venac area of Belgrade.
Political situation
Mass gatherings and demonstrations are taking place in Belgrade and other towns and cities. These can happen at short notice and cause significant disruption, including to public transport. Most gatherings are peaceful but there is the potential for things to escalate quickly. Serbian government officials have suggested that there is the potential for violence at a mass gathering planned in Belgrade on 15 March. To reduce your personal risk, including possible injury:
keep up to date with local developments
plan ahead to avoid disruption
avoid crowds and demonstrations
Crime
Protecting yourself and your belongings
Take sensible precautions to protect yourself from street crime, particularly in larger cities. Pickpockets work in tourist areas, airports, on public transport and at motorway service stations.
Criminals may assume that foreigners are carrying large amounts of cash. Four-wheel-drive and luxury vehicles are also common targets.
Some sporting events have had incidents of violence and petty crime. Incidents are common during derby matches in Belgrade – take extra care in and around stadiums when these are taking place.
Unexploded landmines and bombs
There is still some danger from unexploded landmines and bombs from the 1999 Kosovo conflict. Most of the affected areas are in the mountains to the north and east of Kosovo. Take special care in these areas and keep to marked roads.
Thick vegetation covers most of the dangerous areas. Do not touch anything suspicious and report it to the police.
Laws and cultural differences
Personal ID
You must always carry your passport or – if you are a resident – your ID card for identification purposes. Keep a copy separately in a safe place.
Illegal drugs and prison sentences
There are strict penalties for possessing and trafficking drugs, including long prison sentences.
Using cameras in secure areas
Taking photographs of military and police installations, personnel or vehicles anywhere in Serbia may lead to arrest or difficulties with the authorities.
LGBT+ travellers
Same-sex sexual activity is legal in Serbia, and there are anti-discrimination laws. There are LGBT+ friendly hostels, clubs and other events in Belgrade. However, the level of public prejudice against LGBT+ people is still relatively high. Showing affection in public could result in unwanted attention.
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Transport risks
Road travel
If you are planning to drive in Serbia, see information on driving abroad and check the rules of the road in the RAC’s Serbia guide. The guide lists driving regulations and other legal requirements you need to be aware of.
You can drive with a UK photocard driving licence for a series of short visits up to a year, or for a single stay of up to 6 months.
You may find it helpful to have the 1968 version of the international driving permit as Serbian police will be able to recognise it.
If you’re staying longer than 6 months, you must get a local licence.
Road conditions
The general standard of roads in Serbia varies widely. Roads are worse in rural areas, especially after bad weather. One particularly dangerous road is the Ibarska Magistrala (linking Belgrade, via Čačak and Užice, to Montenegro).
Dial 1987 for roadside assistance.
Car hire
Many Serbian car hire firms will not allow you to drive their vehicles into Kosovo, Albania or Bulgaria because of security concerns. There have been some incidents where Serbian registered cars have been vandalised, or in some cases set on fire, in more isolated areas of Kosovo.
Bringing a vehicle into Serbia
If you are bringing a vehicle into Serbia, you must have vehicle registration and ownership documents and a locally valid insurance policy.
Check if you need a UK sticker to drive your car outside the UK.
Taxis
You should only use registered taxis – look for a municipal registration number alongside the cab number. Instead of hailing a taxi, you can call one of the radio taxi phone numbers – most operators speak English.
See more information about taxis and public transport from the Belgrade Tourism Organisation.
Rail travel
Trains can be slow, particularly in winter when there are often long delays. Each carriage has an attendant, and local police may carry out random ID checks.
Thieves operate on trains, so take particular care that passports and other valuables are safe. On overnight trains, lock your sleeping berth from the inside for safety.
Extreme weather and natural disasters
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards.
Wildfires
Wildfires are possible in Serbia from April to October due to the dry and hot weather.  Wildfires are highly dangerous and unpredictable. You should: 
take care when visiting or driving through countryside 
make sure cigarette ends are properly extinguished 
not light fires or barbecues except in designated and marked areas  
not leave any rubbish 
If you see a wildfire, call the emergency services on 112. Follow any advice from the police or local authorities.
Flooding
Parts of Serbia can flood after heavy rain. See flood warnings from the Serbian Hydrometeorological Service. If floods affect your area, follow the instructions of the Serbian authorities.
Earthquakes
There is a risk of earthquakes in Serbia, and earth tremors are common. Serious earthquakes are less frequent but can occur. The US Federal Emergency Management Agency has advice on what to before, during and after an earthquake.
