This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Serbia as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Serbia to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Serbia
For information on entering Serbia, see Entry Requirements
There is a ban on public gatherings of more than 50 people. Social distancing at all times is encouraged. On public transport, passengers are required to wear protective face masks and gloves.
Most businesses, shops, parks and public places are now able to open.
Schools and universities remain closed until further notice. Some kindergartens and day care facilities are open.
There may be further restrictions to limit the spread of coronavirus. Infringements of these procedures may result in fines and/or a prison sentence. If you are currently in Serbia, check news outlets regularly for up to date information.
Visas
The right to remain in Serbia for foreign nationals was extended until the end of the State of Emergency (7 May). Foreign nationals whose residency permits or visas (including 90 tourist visas) expired during the State of Emergency must submit an application for renewal before 6 June. For more information, visit the website of the Ministry of Interior.
Health
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Serbia.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Serbia, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
The Serbian Ministry of Health website gives up to date information on the number of cases confirmed and tests carried out in Serbia. This website also includes helpline telephone numbers.
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
