The Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advise against all but essential travel to Serbia, due to measures introduced by the Serbian government in response to the ongoing coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. We recommend that British nationals that wish to leave Serbia make arrangements to do so as soon as possible.
The Serbian Government has announced a State of Emergency in response to the global pandemic of coronavirus (COVID-19), effective 15 March. See Health
Airports remain open, although airline schedules are subject to change. Serbia has announced a temporary ban on entry for foreign nationals. Serbian nationals, diplomats, and foreign nationals with a temporary or permanent residence permit are permitted to enter Serbia.
International arrivals (including from the UK) will be required to self-isolate for 14 days. Travellers arriving from Switzerland, Iran, Italy, Romania, Spain, Germany, France, Austria, Slovenia and Greece will be placed in isolation for 28 days.
New restrictions on travel to, from and within Serbia may be introduced at short notice. Some neighbouring countries are restricting movements across the border and/or conducting health checks. You should refer to the travel advice for the country you are travelling to/from for information.
There may be further restrictions to limit the spread of coronavirus. Infringements of these procedures may result in a prison sentence of up to three years. If you are currently in Serbia, check news outlets regularly for up to date information.
Most visits to Serbia are trouble-free.
You may have difficulty entering Serbia if you have a Republic of Kosovo stamp in your passport. See Entry requirements
Terrorist attacks in Serbia can’t be ruled out. See Terrorism
High levels of air pollution can occur across the country. See Health
If you need to contact the emergency services, call 912 (police), 913 (ambulance), 914 (fire) or 112 for the all purpose emergency number.
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.
The Overseas Business Risk service offers information and advice for British companies operating overseas on how to manage political, economic, and business security-related risks.
Take out comprehensive travel and medical insurance before you travel.
