Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for North Macedonia on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
Skopje International Airport and St. Paul the Apostle Airport in Ohrid are open, and commercial flights are operating but with reduced schedules. Check with your travel company for the latest information.
There is no requirement for passengers arriving from the UK to self-isolate. No PCR test is required. You may still need to self-isolate for health reasons (if you have coronavirus, if you have had contact with someone with coronavirus, of if you are waiting for the outcome of a PCR test).
Effective from 10 March 2021, any travellers arriving from the African continent will need to self-isolate for 14 days
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in North Macedonia.
Travel in North Macedonia
Public transport and taxi services are permitted to operate in North Macedonia. Protective face coverings must be worn when travelling on public transport.
On 6 April the Government of North Macedonia introduced an extended nationwide curfew, which all citizens, with a few exceptions for key workers, must obey. From 28 April, the movement of people and public transport vehicles is banned between 9pm until 5am the next morning. The night time curfew will not be imposed for the upcoming holidays on 1 to 2 May and 12 to 13 May.
The curfew does not apply to people in need of emergency medical assistance but permission must be sought from the local police prior to travel.
The curfew does not apply for passengers arriving or departing from international airports with a valid ticket. Travellers that are transiting through the country will not be allowed to stay in the territory for more than three hours after crossing the border.
Public spaces and services
Wearing of protective face coverings is required when visiting indoor public spaces, such as markets, post offices, health institutions, shops, banks, including when using public transport.
Protective face coverings are also required outside, except in certain circumstances including:
playing sports while respecting all other relevant health protocols
when driving in a private passenger vehicle if alone or with persons with whom you live
when in the yard of a family home alone or with persons who live there
while sitting in cafes, restaurants or other catering facilities which respect all other relevant health protocols
if younger than 6 years old
if required to wear another type of job-specific protective equipment
if you have a recognised health condition
In April, the Government of North Macedonia introduced additional measures for the protection of public health and citizens that applies to the entire territory of the Republic of North Macedonia.
From 28 April, restaurants, bars and coffee shops will be allowed to work until 8:30pm, provided they have outdoor seating. Different rules apply for hotels, hostels, other accommodation facilities and Skopje/Ohrid airports which allow them to use indoor facilities for e.g. guests.
Some businesses are allowed to open including shops in shopping malls, supermarkets and grocery stores but they may operate with reduced working hours and limits are placed on the number of people entering shopping facilities at any time. Betting shops and casinos are to be closed for visitors.
There is a complete ban on visitors to all gyms, fitness clubs and sport centres.
It is forbidden to organise, hold and attend / participate in any kind of seminars, trainings, workshops, courses, conferences and other events of this type.
There is a ban on gathering in groups and groupings of more than four people in public space, parks, or any open area. This applies to the entire territory of the country every day during the week.
Health and safety protocols are in place on beaches including wearing of face coverings and social distancing, and at swimming pools.
Other measures include cancellation of some cultural and sporting events; restrictions on gatherings in public areas and closure of some schools and universities. Further measures can be introduced at short notice. Follow local media or government announcements to stay up to date.
Healthcare in North Macedonia
The Ministry of Health advises if you are in North Macedonia and develop any symptoms of coronavirus, you should call +389 78 387 194 or +389 2 15 123. Further information is on the Ministry’s website. If you take a test for coronavirus, you must self-isolate from the time the test is scheduled until obtaining the result. If you test positive you must continue to self-isolate. If you have taken a test as a result of coming into contact with someone with coronavirus and the test is negative, you must continue to self-isolate until 14 days after you had contact with that person.
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in North Macedonia.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in North Macedonia
As information is available about the national vaccination programme, this page will be updated.
The Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) is the UK authority responsible for assessing the safety, quality and efficacy of vaccines. It has authorised the Pfizer/BioNTech, Oxford/AstraZeneca and Moderna vaccines for temporary supply and use in the UK. Find out more about MHRA approval for these vaccines.
British nationals living overseas should seek medical advice from their local healthcare provider in the country where they reside. Information about vaccines used in other national programmes, including regulatory status, should be available from the local authorities. This list of Stringent Regulatory Authorities recognised by the World Health Organisation may also be a useful source of additional information. Find out more information about the COVID-19 vaccines on the World Health Organization COVID-19 vaccines page.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test in line with UK government testing requirements.
Further Information
Further information can be found on the Government of North Macedonia website, which is publishing information and key announcements in English.
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
