The information on this page covers the most common types of travel and reflects the UK government’s understanding of the rules currently in place. Unless otherwise stated, this information is for travellers using a full ‘British Citizen’ passport.
The authorities in the country or territory you’re travelling to are responsible for setting and enforcing the rules for entry. If you’re unclear about any aspect of the entry requirements, or you need further reassurance, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
You should also consider checking with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Restrictions in response to coronavirus
All persons entering the Republic of North Macedonia will need to present a negative PCR test for COVID-19 taken within 72 hours before arrival. Anyone entering North Macedonia who can present this negative PCR test will then be subject to mandatory self-isolation for at least 14 days (or 21 days if coming from high-risk countries, which currently includes the United Kingdom).
Anyone entering North Macedonia without a PCR test will be sent to a mandatory state quarantine facility where a PCR test for COVID-19 will be done. Depending on the results, those persons will later be sent to mandatory self-isolation.
On 15 June, the government announced that foreign nationals can transit through North Macedonia if entering and exiting though one of the following border crossing points: Tabanovce (Serbia), Deve Bair (Bulgaria), Bogorodica (Greece), Kafasan (Albania), Blace (Kosovo) and Skopje airport. Transit must be completed within a maximum of 5 hours, and you must not leave the designated highway or local road during your transit through North Macedonia. You may use the facilities at petrol stations along your route while following measures put in place in North Macedonia to limit the spread of coronavirus. If you want to transit through North Macedonia you will be required to fill in a declaration form certified by border police on arrival and on departure. Anyone found breaking the conditions of transit may be referred to mandatory state quarantine.
Some border crossings in neighbouring countries are still closed and subject to entry requirements. Although these measures are in place to enable transit through North Macedonia, it does not guarantee that the next country on your journey has opened its borders or will allow British nationals to enter. It is your responsibility to ensure that you can enter the next country on your journey otherwise you could face being refused entry to North Macedonia or could be referred to state quarantine if unable to complete your journey in time.
Check country-specific FCO Travel Advice for details.
Regular entry requirements
Visas
British passport holders don’t need a visa to travel to North Macedonia for up to 3 months.
Holders of UK Refugee Travel Documents travelling to North Macedonia or transiting the country en-route to Kosovo, must obtain visas for travel to, or transit through, North Macedonia from the Embassy of North Macedonia in London.
If you plan to stay for longer than 3 months, contact the Embassy of North Macedonia in London.
Unaccompanied minors (children under 18) must have a letter of consent from their parents or guardian. Failure to do so may result into refusal of entry and deportation.
Passport validity
Passports and other documents accepted for entry must be valid for a minimum of 90 days from the arrival date.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents are accepted for entry, airside transit and exit from North Macedonia. However, they must have at least 3 months validity.
Registering with the police
You must register with the local police in the town/city where you’re staying within 24 hours of your arrival in North Macedonia, unless you’re in a hotel in which case you will be registered automatically when checking in. You should retain the registration document as proof of registration until your departure from North Macedonia.
If you don’t register you may receive a fine of between 600 and 1,000 Euros, and be detained or face a court appearance (which may include a restriction on your ability to return to North Macedonia).
Travel to Serbia
Foreign nationals, including those from the United Kingdom, have sometimes been denied entry into the Republic of Serbia from North Macedonia if they hold entry/exit stamps from Kosovo.
