At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Coronavirus
The Macedonian authorities have introduced measures in response to the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. You should comply with any additional screening measures put in place by the authorities.
On 13 March 2020, the Ministry of Health of the Government of North Macedonia announced that they would prohibit the entry of foreign nationals travelling from countries of high risk (based on WHO data and updated daily on the Ministry of Health website ). As of 16 March, the UK is classed as a high risk country. The only exceptions are for foreigners that can prove to have completed a 14 day quarantine prior to arriving to North Macedonia as confirmed by a certificate/document issued from a “quarantine authority” (Ministry of Health or equivalent).
On 14 March 2020, the Government of North Macedonia announced that they would prohibit the entry of foreign nationals travelling from countries of medium risk (based on WHO data and updated daily on the Ministry of Health website). The only exceptions are for those who have been granted explicit permission by the Ministry of Interior.
Anyone who has arrived from a high or medium risk country should also observe a mandatory period of self-isolation for 14 days after arrival. All travellers on incoming flights and crossing land borders will be subject to health screening, and will be required to complete a health questionnaire prior to admission.
The list of high and medium risk countries is published in Macedonian and includes the United Kingdom as a high-risk country. For those travelling from neighbouring countries, it also includes Greece as a medium risk country. The Ministry of Health also publishes updates on its website via twitter and cooperates with the AirCare application to provide information about COVID-19 in different languages.
On 13 March 2020, the Government of North Macedonia introduced restrictions on entry and exit to the municipalities of Debar and Centar Zhupa. In addition, the Government has closed all border crossings except Tabanovce (Serbia), Deve Bair (Bulgaria), Kafasan (Albania), Bogorodica (Greece) and Blace (Kosovo). Albania, Kosovo, Greece and Serbia have introduced their own border restrictions and closures.
Skopje International Airport is still operating, but St. Paul the Apostle Airport in Ohrid is expected to close from 16 March.
Restaurants, cafés, bars and shopping malls are closed to the public, but grocery stores are permitted to open. Please follow any measures put in place by the authorities.
The Ministry of Health also advises if you are a British National in North Macedonia and develop any symptoms of COVID-19, please consider them urgent and call +389 78 387 194 or +389 2 15 123.
Keep up to date with information from your tour operator, transport or accommodation provider on the impact on any existing travel plans.
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
Medical treatment
There is a reciprocal healthcare agreement for British nationals, which entitles you to free emergency treatment in North Macedonia. You will need to present your British passport as proof of entitlement. If you’re resident in the UK but are not a British national, you will need to present a certificate of insurance from HM Revenue & Customs. The health system in all parts of North Macedonia is suffering from widespread shortage of medicines and other essentials and you may need to pay some of the initial costs (usually between 50 and 100 Euros). If the treatment is not deemed an emergency, you will have to pay the full cost yourself. Make sure you have adequate travel and medical insurance.
Health risks
Mosquito-borne diseases including West Nile virus are present in North Macedonia.
High levels of air pollution in cities, especially in winter, can affect public health. Children, the elderly and those with pre-existing medical conditions may be especially affected. You can find further information and advice on air quality on the World Health Organization (WHO) website. Keep up to date with local information and seek medical advice on appropriate precautions.
