Coronavirus guidance is being updated.
Read what you can and cannot do

The FCO is advising that if you live in the UK and are currently travelling abroad, you should return to the UK now, where and while there are still commercial routes available.
There are currently no commercial means of leaving North Macedonia to return to the UK. All border crossings in North Macedonia are closed for foreign nationals except for freight vehicles, diplomatic corps, foreigners with long-term stay permit and their family members, and others with special permission from the Ministry of Interior (MoI).
Skopje International Airport is closed for air traffic until further notice except for state, military, medical and emergency flights. St. Paul the Apostle Airport in Ohrid is also closed.
We know this is concerning for British people trying to leave North Macedonia. The UK government have been working closely with the authorities of North Macedonia and other governments to provide options for British Nationals to return to the UK
What to do
If you cannot leave North Macedonia at this time, you should:
follow the advice of local authorities, including local measures to help minimise your risk of exposure to coronavirus
find accommodation that’s suitable for your needs.
keep in regular contact with family and friends at home, so they know you are safe and well
Follow the advice of the local authorities
See more information and advice about staying where you are if you cannot return to the UK.
Future travel options
The UK government has been working closely with airlines, the authorities of North Macedonia and other governments to make sure options have been available for you to return to the UK.
This travel advice and the British Embassy Skopje’s Facebook and Twitter accounts will be updated if departure options become available.
Some flight options, including operated to transit countries, could arise at short notice. Please contact the British Embassy Skopje at BritishEmbassySkopje@fco.gov.uk if you are a British traveller seeking to return to the UK.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Your journey home
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British Embassy Skopje on +389 2 3299 299 or you can contact us online
The Embassy cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone. This page will be updated when departure options become available. To get the latest information, sign up for travel advice email alerts.The British Embassy Skopje is issuing regular updates on Facebook and Twitter with the latest available information.
Further information
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
