

Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in North Macedonia
Terrorist attacks in North Macedonia cannot be ruled out.
Attacks could be indiscriminate, including in places visited by foreign nationals. Stay aware of your surroundings and keep up to date with local media reports and follow advice of the local authorities.
The authorities in North Macedonia have carried out raids against suspected terrorists. There’s a risk of terrorist attacks inspired by extremist ideology in North Macedonia.
Political situation
Occasionally there are protests which can cause disruption. Check local media for the latest information, be vigilant and avoid large crowds and gatherings.
If there is civil disorder, stay indoors when possible, especially after dark, and avoid crowds and demonstrations.
Crime
Attacks against foreign nationals are extremely rare.
Organised crime groups are active, particularly in northern areas near the border with Kosovo.
There are occasional shooting incidents, including in Skopje, but they are not targeted at foreign nationals. People sometimes fire guns when celebrating.
Protecting your belongings
There have been several cases of pickpocketing by gangs of children and bag snatching in the main shopping and entertainment areas late at night. Foreign nationals appear to have been specifically targeted. Make sure your personal possessions are secure.
Keep your passport in a safe place and carry a copy of the photo page for identification. If it is lost or stolen, report it to the local police and cancel your passport immediately.
Laws and cultural differences
Using cameras in secure areas
It is illegal to take photographs of any military installation or site of government or strategic importance.
LGBT+ travellers
Same-sex sexual relationships are legal, but people in North Macedonia are not particularly open about them. LGBT+ bars and restaurants are not common. Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Money
British banks do not exchange Macedonian denars, so exchange any unwanted denars before you leave. You should only change money through banks or official exchanges and not through street dealers. You will not be able to exchange Scottish or Northern Irish banknotes.
Transport risks
Road travel
If you are planning to drive in North Macedonia, see information on driving abroad and check the rules of the road in the RAC’s North Macedonia guide. The guide lists driving regulations and other legal requirements you need to be aware of. You can get fines for:
not using side lights or dipped headlights, including during the day
using a mobile phone while driving
not wearing a seatbelt, as both a driver and a passenger
not having all the required safety equipment, including snow chains where conditions require them
You can use a UK photocard driving licence to drive in North Macedonia. Unless you’re driving a rental car or have a residence permit, you’ll also need to have the 1968 version of the international driving permit (IDP). You cannot buy an IDP outside the UK, so get one before you travel.  
Hire car companies often have stricter requirements for their customers, such as at least 2 years of driving experience and a higher minimum age.   
If you have an accident, do not move your vehicle until the police record the incident and allow you to move. In case of emergency, contact:
police: 192
ambulance: 194
roadside assistance: 196
Drink-driving is a serious offence in North Macedonia. If you are tested and found to have 50 milligrams of alcohol per 100 millilitres of blood (England’s limit is 80mg per 100ml), you may get a heavy fine and possible imprisonment. If you’re a professional driver (for example, an HGV driver), any alcohol in your system can lead to arrest and a heavy fine.  
When travelling on major roads, you can pay the toll in Macedonian denars or in euros with cash or a credit card.
Driving standards
Driving standards and road conditions vary widely. Driving styles differ significantly from those in UK. Accidents are common. Always take care while driving or on foot.
Driving a British car in North Macedonia   
If you are taking your own car, you must have:
vehicle registration
ownership documents
valid insurance to drive in North Macedonia
Check your insurance covers you to drive in North Macedonia and you are able to show proof to border officials. A green card might be helpful to demonstrate you have the correct cover.
Check if you need a UK sticker to drive your car outside the UK.
Delays for lorries at borders
Lorries crossing the North Macedonia border may be subject to long delays. Make sure you have the proper customs documentation before you arrive at the border.
Air travel
From November to February there can be thick fog in Skopje and surrounding areas. There can be flight delays and diversions if fog affects visibility at Skopje airport.
You can find flight information on the Skopje International Airport website.
Extreme weather and natural disasters
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards. 
Wildfires
Wildfires are possible in North Macedonia from April to October due to the dry and hot weather.  Wildfires are highly dangerous and unpredictable. You should:
take care when visiting or driving through countryside
make sure cigarette ends are properly extinguished
not light fires or barbecues except in designated and marked areas
not leave any rubbish
If you see a wildfire, call the emergency services on 112. Follow any advice from the police or local authorities.
Earthquakes
Earthquakes occur occasionally. The US Federal Emergency Management Agency website has advice about what to do before, during and after an earthquake.
