This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in North Macedonia as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in North Macedonia to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in North Macedonia
For information on entering North Macedonia, see Entry Requirements
On 15 May, the President of North Macedonia declared a State of Emergency for the whole territory of North Macedonia for an additional period of 14 days.
Curfew measures
The nationwide curfew ended on 27 May and there are no longer any restrictions on movement.
Face coverings
Everyone is required to wear protective face coverings when visiting indoor public spaces, such as markets, post offices, health institutions, shops, banks, including when using public transport. Protective face coverings are also required outside in situations when it is not possible to maintain a safe distance from others such as in green markets and open areas that do not allow for two-meters of physical distance between individuals.
This is not obligatory for people staying in their own gardens or balconies, riding a bike, doing open-air sports, or in a passenger vehicle along with the people living in the same household.
Social measures
The Government of North Macedonia recommends those living at the territory of Kumanovo, Prilep and Tetovo, reduce outings from their homes, as well as designate one family member in charge of buying groceries and medicines.
Organised transport of passengers by bus or van are banned from entering or exiting from Tetovo municipality.
Effective from 28 May, some restaurants, bars and cafes that have a courtyard or outside area may open where social distancing measures can be followed.
In the whole of the territory of North Macedonia, restaurants, cafés, and bars, that do not have an outside area, will continue to be closed to the public unless operating via online/telephone orders. Some businesses are allowed to open, including some shops in shopping malls, betting establishments, and grocery stores. They may operate with reduced working hours and limits are placed on the number of people entering shopping facilities at any time.
Other businesses including education and training centers for adults, as well as exam centers and driving schools, and outdoor individual sports practices have been allowed to resume work with health & safety conditions.
Other measures include cancellation of cultural and sporting events; and closure of schools and universities.
Citizens are not allowed to move in public places in groups of more than two people, with the exception of children under the age of 14, if they are accompanied by a parent in the group of two
The British Embassy Skopje is issuing regular updates on Facebook and Twitter with the latest available information.
Visas
British passport holders do not need a visa to travel to North Macedonia for up to 3 months.
On 18 May the Government of North Macedonia announced that they would extend the validity of short-term residence stays and or visas which had expired or were due to expire during the state of emergency. Those who were legally in North Macedonia before the state of emergency will be allowed to remain until 31 August 2020 (even if the state of emergency ends before this date).
Further information can be found HERE in English and Macedonian.
Health
The Ministry of Health advises if you are in North Macedonia and develop any symptoms of coronavirus, you should call +389 78 387 194 or +389 2 15 123.
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in North Macedonia.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in North Macedonia, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
Further information can be found on the Government of North Macedonia website, which is publishing information and key announcements in English.
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
