The Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advises against all but essential travel to North Macedonia due to stringent measures introduced by the government of North Macedonia in response to the ongoing coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. We recommend that British Nationals who wish to leave North Macedonia make arrangements to do so as soon as possible.
The Government of North Macedonia announced on 16 March that it would be closing its border crossings to foreign nationals and within 48 hours would close the main airport Skopje International Airport for passenger travel.
The Macedonian authorities have introduced measures in response to the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. See Health
On 13 March 2020, the Ministry of Health of the Government of North Macedonia announced that they would prohibit the entry of foreign nationals travelling from countries of high risk (based on WHO data and updated daily on the Ministry of Health website ). As of 16 March, the UK is classed as a high risk country. The only exceptions are those who can submit a certificate issued by the “competent quarantine authority (Ministry of Health or equivalent)”.
On 14 March 2020, the Government of North Macedonia announced that they would prohibit the entry of foreign nationals travelling from countries of medium risk (based on WHO data and updated daily on the Ministry of Health website. The only exceptions are for those who have been granted explicit permission by the Ministry of Interior.
Anyone who has arrived from a high or medium risk country should also observe a mandatory period of self-isolation for 14 days after arrival. The list of high and medium risk countries is published in Macedonian and includes the United Kingdom as a high-risk country. For those travelling from neighbouring countries, it also includes Greece as a medium risk country. The Ministry of Health also publishes updates on its website via twitter and cooperates with the AirCare application to provide information about COVID-19 in different languages.
On 13 March 2020, the Government of North Macedonia introduced restrictions on entry and exit to the municipalities of Debar and Centar Zhupa. In addition, the Government has closed all border crossings except Tabanovce (Serbia), Deve Bair (Bulgaria), Kafasan (Albania), Bogorodica (Greece) and Blace (Kosovo). Albania, Kosovo, Greece and Serbia have introduced their own border restrictions and closures.
Skopje International Airport is still operating, but St. Paul the Apostle Airport in Ohrid is expected to close from 16 March. Restaurants, cafés, bars and shopping malls are closed to the public, but grocery stores are permitted to open. Please follow any measures put in place by the authorities.
The Ministry of Health also advises if you are a British National in North Macedonia and develop any symptoms of COVID-19, please consider them urgent and call +389 78 387 194 or +389 2 15 123.
On 14 February 2019, the UK government was informed that the Republic of Macedonia was henceforth known as the Republic of North Macedonia.
Most visits to North Macedonia are trouble-free. Occasional acts of criminal violence occur, although foreigners are not generally targeted.
Take particular care if you travel to northern areas of the country near the border with Kosovo. See Crime and Local travel
Political rallies and demonstrations could occur. See Political situation
Terrorists are likely to try to carry out attacks in North Macedonia. See Terrorism
Mosquito-borne diseases, including West Nile virus are present. See Health
Earthquakes occasionally occur. See Natural disasters
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.
Take out comprehensive travel and medical insurance before you travel.
The Overseas Business Risk service offers information and advice for British companies operating overseas on how to manage political, economic, and business security-related risks.
