Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for The Gambia on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
Commercial flights to and from The Gambia remain very limited. Check with your travel company for the latest information.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in The Gambia.
Travel in The Gambia
Commercial flights to and from The Gambia remain very limited. Check with your travel company for the latest information. The land border with Senegal is open.
Additional surveillance and detection mechanisms have been put in place at Banjul International Airport and various points of entry along The Gambia’s border.
Public places and services
All facilities in The Gambia are open.
Social distancing measures should be applied. You should check with the local authorities on the current restrictions.
Healthcare in The Gambia
The government of the Gambia has set up a help line “1025” for anyone with information or concerns about coronavirus. If you think you have COVID-19 symptoms, you should stay in place and call “1025”.
Government provided COVID-19 tests can be taken free of charge at Independence Stadium Bakau, Brusubi Turntable (next to Petroleum House) and Mbollet Market, Brikama.
In The Gambia you will need to go to a pharmacy to obtain most over-the-counter medicines. Only a very limited selection are available at supermarkets or other stores. Not all medicines available in the UK will be available in The Gambia. Travellers that require specialist medication should check availability before travel or make arrangements to bring their medicines with them. The widely used symbols are a green cross or a green ‘Bowl of Hygieia’ (a chalice or cup with a snake twined around it). UK prescriptions are accepted.
For contact details for English speaking doctors, visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in The Gambia.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in The Gambia
Wherever possible British nationals should aim to be vaccinated in the country where they live. As further information is available about the national vaccination programme, this page will be updated. Sign up to get email notifications.
Residents in The Gambia are eligible to be vaccinated. High-risk groups such as healthcare workers, older people and those with underlying conditions will be prioritised. For further information you should call 1025.
The Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) is the UK authority responsible for assessing the safety, quality and efficacy of vaccines. It has authorised the Pfizer/BioNTech, Oxford/AstraZeneca and Moderna vaccines for temporary supply and use in the UK. Find out more about MHRA approval for these vaccines.
British nationals living overseas should seek medical advice from their local healthcare provider in the country where they reside. Information about vaccines used in other national programmes, including regulatory status, should be available from the local authorities. This list of Stringent Regulatory Authorities recognised by the World Health Organisation may also be a useful source of additional information. Find out more information about the COVID-19 vaccines on the World Health Organization COVID-19 vaccines page.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements.
Further information
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British High Commission on 00220 449 5133/ 449 4508 and ukinthegambia@fcdo.gov.uk.
