This page has information on travelling to The Gambia.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport from the UK, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in The Gambia set and enforce entry rules. If you’re unsure how The Gambia’s entry requirements apply to you, contact its UK embassy, high commission or consulate.
All travellers
Airport Development and Security Fee
A compulsory Airport Development Fee must be paid on exiting the country. The fee is 20 euros, or equivalent in local currency. Visa credit card is accepted, but no others. Passengers in transit and infants under 2 years old are exempt. Check with your travel company whether this fee has been included in your air ticket.
A compulsory Airport Security Fee must be paid upon entering and exiting the country. The fee is 20 dollars, or equivalent in euros, sterling or local currency. This will be collected via marked kiosks in Banjul International Airport. Visa credit card is accepted. Children below 2 years of age and passengers in transit are exempt.
If you’re fully vaccinated
Fully vaccinated passengers arriving from the UK do not require a negative PCR COVID-19 test to enter The Gambia. You must show proof of vaccination. To enter The Gambia you may be asked to submit to a Rapid Diagnostic Test. If found positive, you will be quarantined at a government facility at your own cost until your test returns a negative result.
Proof of vaccination status
The Gambia will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 recovery and vaccination record. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
To be considered fully-vaccinated you must:
have had both doses of a two-dose COVID-19 vaccine and the second dose must have been received at least two weeks prior to arriving in The Gambia, or
have had one-dose of the Johnson and Johnson COVID-19 vaccine at least two weeks prior to arriving in The Gambia.
If you’re not fully vaccinated
Non-vaccinated or partially vaccinated passengers arriving from the UK will require a negative PCR COVID-19 certificate, taken no more than 72 hours before arrival, to The Gambia Ministry of Health officials. Passengers will also be asked to submit to a Rapid Diagnostic Test. If found positive, you will be quarantined at a government facility at your own cost until your test returns a negative result.
If you’ve had COVID-19 in the past year
Entry requirements for The Gambia are the same for all travellers, regardless of whether you have tested positive for COVID-19 in the past year.
Children and young people
Children aged 17 and under are exempt from providing proof of vaccination and/or a negative PCR certificate, but may be required to submit to a Rapid Diagnostic Test on arrival.
Infants aged 2 and under are exempt.
If you’re transiting through The Gambia
There are no transit options available from The Gambia.
Exemptions
There are no exemptions to The Gambia’s entry requirements.
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
Passport validity
If you are visiting The Gambia, your passport should be valid for the proposed duration of your stay.
Contact your travel provider or embassy of the country you are visiting if you think that your passport does not meet both these requirements. Renew your passport if you need to.
Visas
For visits of less than a month, you don’t need to get a visa before you travel. British nationals are given a 28 day stamp in their passports on arrival. You can get further 28 day extensions from the Immigration Office in Banjul or the Tourist Police Stations in the Tourism Development Area.
If you’re planning to enter The Gambia for a period longer than 3 months, check entry requirements with the Gambian High Commission in London.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are valid for entry and exit at Banjul airport.
