At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist are available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. If you intend to bring prescription medication into The Gambia, you should bring a copy of your prescription and keep items in the original packaging. Some prescription and over-the-counter medicines like those containing codeine or diazepam are banned under The Gambia’s drugs laws. If you’re in any doubt about customs procedures or need more information on the legal status of a specific medicine, check with the Gambian Embassy before you travel.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Coronavirus
The Gambian authorities have introduced a number of precautionary measures in response to the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic.
Banjul International Airport has heightened screening measures in place for visitors arriving in The Gambia. Screening measures are also in place at the land border checkpoints from Senegal. The Gambian authorities are encouraging those with any information or concerns about coronavirus to call this local helpline number 1025.
You should comply with any additional screening measures put in place by the authorities. Keep up to date with information from your tour operator, transport or accommodation provider on the impact on any existing travel plans.
If you need further information about entry requirements, contact the local immigration authorities or the nearest Gambian embassy. You should also check with your airline or travel company for the latest information.
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
Medical treatment
You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.   
Medical facilities in The Gambia are very limited and the cost of medical evacuation can be very high. Private clinics will only treat fee-paying patients.
Other health risks
Malaria is present in all areas of The Gambia throughout the year.
In the 2010 Report on the Global AIDS Epidemic the UNAIDS/WHO Working Group estimated that around 17,000 adults aged 15 or over in Gambia were living with HIV; the prevalence percentage was estimated at around 2% of the adult population compared to the prevalence percentage in adults in the UK of around 0.2%. You should exercise normal precautions to avoid exposure to HIV/AIDS.
