Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

The Gambia Government announced the temporary closure of its airspace to commercial airlines from 23 March at midnight in an effort to contain the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19). There are currently no commercial options available to return to the UK from The Gambia.
British Government special flights
The UK government has organised a special flight with Titan Airways, who operate the flight from The Gambia for British tourists, short-term visitors and their direct dependents to return to the UK.
The flight will depart from Banjul airport at 16:10 on Friday 24 April.
The cost of the flight is £553 per person from Banjul Airport
* To be eligible to take this flight, you must be normally resident in the UK. Eligibility, including your address in UK, will be checked before tickets are issued.
* Direct dependents of British travellers are eligible for a space on the flights, providing they are normally resident in the UK.
* If you wish to travel, book tickets on the CTM website as soon as possible. * Tickets will not be on sale at the airport. Do not travel to the airport if you don’t have a confirmed ticket.
To make a booking, you will need: * a valid passport and be able to meet the entry requirements of the UK * contact details for each traveller you are registering * your UK home address and postcode * your means of payment, such as credit or debit card details
You will need to have completed your booking by 1200 Thursday 23 April
What to do after booking your ticket * After you book your ticket you will receive an email explaining the check-in arrangements at the airport.
* You will need to organise your own travel to the airport,
Passengers travelling must arrive at the airport by 13:10 on Friday 24 April.
Help with booking
If you have difficulty booking online, you can text; +44 (0) 786-009-3016
If you cannot pay the cost of the ticket, send an SMS text message containing ONLY your full name to +44 (0) 786-009-3016 and someone from the CTM team will get in touch to assist. If you have exhausted all other options available to you for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan to cover the cost of the ticket.
This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
If you need consular assistance, you can contact the British High Commission in The Gambia on 00220 4495133.
Do not contact the High Commission directly to reserve a seat as we are unable to take your booking.
The High Commission cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone. This page will be updated when departure options become available. To get the latest information, please sign up for Travel Advice alerts
If you are vulnerable and have registered your details with the High Commission you may receive a call about these flights. To protect you from scams, callers will identify themselves to you using personal information you have already submitted to the High Commission. However, do not wait for a call – if you want to take one of these flights, visit the portal now.
Travel to the airport
Do not travel to the airport without a confirmed ticket, as tickets will not be on sale at the airport.
Once you have a ticket, you will receive guidance on how to travel to the airport.
If you cannot leave The Gambia at this time, you should:
Follow the advice of the local authorities, including local measures to help minimise your risk of exposure to coronavirus.
Keep in regular contact with family and friends at home, so they know you are safe and well.
If your visa is close to expiring contact the Immigration Department for advice. See more information and advice about staying where you are if you cannot return to the UK.
Arrival in the UK
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Future travel options
This travel advice will be updated when departure options become available but you can also register your details with us at ukinthegambia@fco.gov.uk.
Sign up for travel advice email alerts
Follow our Twitter and Facebook for more details.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should [contact Corporate Travel Management (https://www.gov.uk/guidance/coronavirus-covid-19-emergency-loans-for-return-flights-how-to-apply). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
What to do
If you cannot leave The Gambia at this time, you should: * follow the advice of local authorities, including local measures to help minimise your risk of exposure to coronavirus * find accommodation that’s suitable for your needs. * keep in regular contact with family and friends at home, so they know you are safe and well
See more information and advice about staying where you are if you cannot return to the UK.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British High Commission on 00220 449 5133/ 449 4508 and ukinthegambia@fco.gov.uk.
The High Commission cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone. This page will be updated when departure options become available. To get the latest information, sign up for travel advice email alerts.
Arrival in the UK
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Further information
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
