

Terrorism  
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.      
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad. 
Terrorism in The Gambia 
Terrorist attacks in The Gambia cannot be ruled out. 
Attacks could be indiscriminate including in places visited by foreigners. Stay aware of your surroundings, keep up to date with local media reports and follow the advice of local authorities.
Political situation  
Avoid large gatherings and protests in public areas and follow the advice of local authorities. 
Crime 
Be cautious of young men locally known as ‘bumsters’ who approach tourists, particularly on beaches, offering help or to act as local guides. They may offer to take you on tours into Senegal. It is unlikely they will follow the correct immigration procedures. This could result in you being detained by immigration authorities. They may also ask for money. 
Be polite but firm in refusing unwanted help or attempts at conversation. 
Corruption is present at all levels and you may be asked for bribes. 
Protecting your belongings 
There are reports of passports and other valuables being stolen from hotel rooms. 
Petty theft is a problem in cities and tourist areas. Take care when visiting certain places, especially at night, such as: 
isolated beaches  
markets 
crowded events  
venues outside the main tourist areas 
Do not take valuables or large sums of money to the beach or display them in public. Take sensible precautions to protect your personal possessions and do not leave valuables in unattended vehicles. Keep a copy of your passport’s photo page, and your entry stamp, in a separate place. 
Local travel 
Security checkpoints operate in and around the capital Banjul and are common on all major routes in The Gambia. They are not always well sign-posted. Take care when approaching them and expect your vehicle to be searched if you’re stopped by security forces. 
The 15th Islamic Summit of the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation will be held at the Sir Dawada Kairaba Jawara International Conference Centre in Banjul on 4-5 May. Road closures in Banjul and delays at Banjul International Airport are likely.
Laws and cultural differences  
The Gambia is an Islamic country. Respect local traditions, customs, laws and religions. Make sure your actions do not cause offence, especially during the holy month of Ramadan or if you intend to visit religious areas. There may be serious penalties for doing something that might not be illegal in the UK but is in The Gambia. 
Ramadan  
Ramadan is a holy month for Muslims. The dates vary by year and country. During this time, you should be respectful of those who are fasting.  
Get more advice when you arrive from your tour guide, hotel or business contacts.  
You should also:  
check opening hours of shops and restaurants  
be aware that driving may be erratic, particularly when people are trying to get home at dusk  
be patient and show tolerance 
Personal ID 
As a foreign national, you must carry ID such as a passport. The police will usually accept a printed copy. 
Public offences 
There are severe penalties for any form of sexual offence against a child. There are reports of increased child sex tourism. Report any incidents to the police. 
Detainment 
It is not always possible for the British High Commission to gain early access to detained British nationals in The Gambia. 
Although the law specifies that detainees cannot be held for longer than 72 hours without charge, this is regularly exceeded. 
The death penalty applies for a number of crimes including arson, murder and treason. A pause on the death penalty is in place. 
Illegal drugs and prison sentences 
There is a zero tolerance towards illegal drugs. This includes importing, exporting, or possession of drugs. Do not accept packages on behalf of anyone without knowing the contents. 
Sentences for those found in possession of drugs can be severe, including fines or prison sentences. Cases of entrapment by Gambian authorities are not uncommon. 
LGBT+ travellers 
There is a zero tolerance towards LGBT+ people in The Gambia. Same-sex relationships are illegal and could lead to lengthy prison sentences. 
Gambian law criminalises the act of men dressing as women with a 5-year jail term. 
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers. 
Money 
The Gambia is primarily a cash-based economy. Check with your tour operator or hotel before travelling. An increasing number of hotels and restaurants accept Visa cards but very few accept credit cards. There are not many ATMs outside the tourist area of Senegambia. In other locations, ATMs can be unreliable. 
Transport risks  
Road travel  
If you are planning to drive in The Gambia, see information on driving abroad. 
You can use a UK photocard driving licence to drive in The Gambia for up to 3 months. If you still have a paper driving licence, you may need to update it to a photocard licence.  
After 3 months you must apply for a Gambian driving licence, you can contact the local police station to ask where the nearest licensing office is. For the application process you need:  
proof of residency in The Gambia 
your valid UK driving licence 
a copy of your passport 
Driving conditions
Driving standards are poor, roads are severely potholed and after dark there is poor road and vehicle lighting.  
There is heavy rainfall from June to October, which can cause localised flooding. Take care if you’re travelling in rural areas or on non-paved roads during this period. 
Some local taxis are not roadworthy. 
River travel 
The ferry service from Banjul to Barra has been suspended until further notice following the failure of a ferry on 12 April. Maintenance is being carried out on all ferries. The alternative route is across the Senegambia Bridge near Farafenni.
Pirogues (wooden dug-out canoes) in The Gambia can be overloaded and safety measures are not up to international standards. They are not recommended for long journeys. If you do travel on one, make sure it has life jackets. 
Extreme weather and natural disasters 
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards. 
Flooding  
Localised flooding can occur during the rainy season, which runs from June to October. 
