This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in The Gambia as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in The Gambia to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Informing the British High Commission
If you’re in The Gambia and need assistance, submit your details to the British High Commission to help us understand your situation.
Moving around in The Gambia
All schools and universities have been closed since 18 March and public gatherings including open markets have also been suspended.
If you are a British National requiring assistance, to help us understand your situation, you should submit your information via the online form on the British High Commission website.
For information on how to return to the UK from The Gambia, see Return to the UK
Health
The Government of the Gambia has set up a help line “1025” for anyone with information or concerns about coronavirus.
For contact details for English speaking doctors, visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in The Gambia.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in The Gambia, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
