This page has information on travelling to Malawi.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport from the UK, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Malawi set and enforce entry rules. If you’re unsure how Malawi’s entry requirements apply to you, contact its UK embassy, high commission or consulate.
All travellers
You need a visa to enter Malawi as a visitor. See Visas for more information.
If you’re fully vaccinated
You are not required to show proof of a negative PCR test if you are fully vaccinated. If you are not vaccinated, you can take a PCR test 72 hours before arrival.
You may be tested for COVID-19 on arrival at your own expense. Passengers may be required to remain at the airport or a testing centre until their COVID-19 test results are known, usually within 24 hours. Individuals testing positive for coronavirus on arrival may be taken for treatment at a government facility. All other individuals will be required to self-monitor for COVID-19 signs and symptoms for 14 days after arrival. This allows the traveller to interact with others but they will be required to strictly observe physical distancing and hand hygiene, and must always use a mask in public. You should not use the NHS testing service to get a test in order to facilitate your travel to another country.
COVID-19 entry and exit requirements may be announced and altered at little notice. You should monitor the Malawi Ministry of Health Facebook page for the latest developments.
Flights in to and out of Malawi from South Africa, Kenya or Ethiopia may also be affected by their own coronavirus (COVID-19) response. Follow our travel advice for South Africa, Kenya and Ethiopia for information on entry and transit requirements.
Residents of Malawi
Returning residents must follow the same rules as for fully vaccinated travellers. You may not be allowed to board your plane, or be turned back at the border if you are not fully vaccinated or cannot provide proof.
Proof of vaccination status
You must produce an electronically verifiable full vaccination certificate at the point of entry.
Malawi will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 vaccination record and proof of COVID-19 vaccination issued in the Crown Dependencies. Your final vaccine dose must have been administered at least 14 days prior to travel. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
If you’re not fully vaccinated
You must produce an electronically verifiable full vaccination certificate at the point of entry. You may not be allowed to board your plane, or be turned back at the border if you are not fully vaccinated or cannot provide proof. See Malawi’s Ministry of Health Facebook page for further information.
If you’ve had COVID-19 in the past year
You must produce an electronically verifiable full vaccination certificate at the point of entry. You may not be allowed to board your plane, or be turned back at the border if you are not fully vaccinated or cannot provide proof.
Children and young people
Children aged 12 to 17 should follow the rules for fully vaccinated travellers to enter Malawi. Children under the age of 12 do not require proof of vaccination or PCR on arrival.
If you’re transiting through Malawi
Transiting is when you pass through one country on the way to your final destination.
Transiting through Malawi is permitted for travellers who present proof of a full vaccination certificate and a negative COVID-19 PCR test not older than 72 hours from your time of departure from your country of origin.
Exemptions
There are no exemptions to Malawi’s entry requirements.
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
Passport validity
Your passport should be valid for minimum period of 6 months on arrival in Malawi.
Visas
British passport holders need a tourist or business visa to enter Malawi. Malawi has introduced an ‘e-visas’ system through which applications can be submitted and approved online in advance of travel. You can find details of the application process on the Malawi High Commission website. The Malawi authorities strongly advise you to get a visa before travel. If you can’t get a visa before travel, you may be able to get a single entry tourist or business visa on arrival at main ports of entry to Malawi, subject to the fulfilment of all immigration requirements. You should check with the Malawi High Commission in London for more information.
Travelling with children via a South African airport
If you’re transiting through a South African airport with children (under 18), see our South Africa travel advice page for information and advice about the documents you’ll need to carry.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are accepted for entry, airside transit, and exit from Malawi. ETDs must be valid for 6 months for entry into Malawi if the holder is not a returning resident.
