At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Coronavirus
The Malawian authorities have introduced a number of precautionary measures in response to the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic.
The Ministry of Health is now screening all travellers on arrival. Individuals showing with symptoms of coronavirus may be moved into a treatment facility. Self- isolation for 14 days will be mandatory for all those travelling: (a) from the UK; (b) from the European Union; (c) from the SADC region, where that country has confirmed local transmission of coronavirus; (d) from other countries with more than 700 cases; or (e) from countries with more than 100 new cases reported in 24 hours.
Those in self-isolation will remain under surveillance by health workers. Travellers who are unable to self-isolate at home may be transferred to a local treatment facility for the self-isolation period. Travellers are not permitted to self-isolate in a hotel or lodge.
Current information is available from the Malawi Ministry of Health Facebook page.
You should comply with any additional screening measures put in place by the authorities. Keep up to date with information from your tour operator, transport or accommodation provider on the impact on any existing travel plans.
Many visitors from the UK travel to Malawi via Kenya or South Africa. Both countries have put in place travel restrictions on individuals from countries affected by coronavirus (COVID-19), including the United Kingdom. Follow our travel advice for Kenya or South Africa if this applies to you.
As governments and local authorities bring in measures to control the spread of the virus, a number of airlines are reducing their inward and outward flight schedules. You should urgently contact your airline if you are due to travel to or from Malawi.
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
Health risks
Outbreaks of gastric intestinal infections including cholera are also common, especially during the rainy season (December to March). Cholera outbreaks are particularly common in border areas with Mozambique and Tanzania. You should follow the health advice issued by the National Travel Health Network and Centre.
Tap water may not be safe to drink, especially in rural areas.
The UNAIDS 2013 Report on the Global AIDS Epidemic estimated that around 950,000 adults aged 15 or over in Malawi were living with HIV; the prevalence percentage was estimated at around 10.8% of the adult population compared to the prevalence percentage in adults in the UK of around 0.25%. You should exercise normal precautions to avoid exposure to HIV/AIDS.
Medical treatment
General medical facilities throughout Malawi are unable to provide the same standard of healthcare as in the UK. Facilities in rural areas are basic and emergency services are limited. You should carry basic medical supplies. Many medical facilities expect to be paid up-front for treatment. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad, medical evacuation and repatriation.
