There are currently extremely limited commercial flights from Malawi to the UK. The British High Commission is in contact with airlines and local authorities to explore commercial options to help British travellers return to the UK from Malawi as soon as possible.
Land borders remain open for Malawi nationals and residents only.
Satguru Travels are planning a future commercial charter flight, jointly with Ethiopian Airlines, from Lilongwe to Addis Ababa (date to be confirmed), from where there are onward flights to multiple destinations including the UK. This flight will be available to British tourists, short term visitors and their direct dependants. This flight will be confirmed if there are enough passengers to cover the operating cost.
Expressions of interest should be made as soon as possible to: mobile number: +265 992 650 650 / +265 992 85 08 50 / +265 888 52 86 59 or email: bharat.tolani@satgurutravel.com
Future travel options
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK.
For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Your journey home: re-entering the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK. You:
need to provide your journey and contact details up to 48 hours before you’re due to arrive in the UK
are not allowed to leave the place you’re staying for the first 14 days you’re in the UK except in very limited situations (known as ‘self-isolating’)
See also the list of people who are exempt from the border rules.
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) also provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British High Commission on + 265 1771250/1770669/1772550/1772864/1772180
The High Commission cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone. This page will be updated when departure options become available. To get the latest information, sign up for travel advice email alerts.
If you cannot leave Malawi
If you cannot leave Malawi at this time, see advice on staying in Malawi during coronavirus.
