

Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Malawi
Terrorist attacks in Malawi cannot be ruled out.
Political situation
There may be protests and civil unrest following the death of the Malawi Vice President, along with other Malawian officials, on 10 June. Funerals and memorial events are scheduled to take place between 15 and 17 June in Lilongwe and in areas close to the Vice President’s hometown of Nsipe. Stay away from large gatherings, which could turn violent, and monitor local media for any information about planned protests. The M1 highway south from Lilongwe is likely to experience heavy traffic on 17 June, increasing the risk of traffic accidents. Unrest may also be expected on this route as convoys travel to and from Nsipe.
There can be demonstrations related to political and economic issues. Avoid large crowds and demonstrations. Monitor this travel advice and local media for updates. Keep local and international travel plans under review.
Crime
Protecting yourself and your belongings
There is a risk of mugging and bag-snatching. Take sensible precautions to protect yourself such as:
avoiding walking in quiet areas, especially after dark
leaving valuables and cash in a hotel safe if possible
keeping copies of important documents in a separate place
Most thefts from tourists take place around main bus stations in urban areas. Report any thefts to the police as soon as possible.
Be cautious if over-friendly people approach you offering to act as guides, selling goods, or claiming to know you and asking for a lift.
Drink and food spiking
People have been robbed after eating drugged food. Do not accept food or drink from strangers.
Burglary and violent assault
There is a risk of house burglaries, including by armed gangs. There has been an increase in break-ins in Lilongwe, Blantyre and Limbe, including violent assaults on residents. Review your security systems and watch out for anything unusual.
Carjacking and criminal kidnapping
Armed carjacking is a risk, especially for drivers of 4-wheel-drive vehicles. Lock your doors and keep windows closed. Do not offer lifts to strangers and look out for obstructions in the road ahead.
Be very wary if another car signals you to pull over or blocks your progress. In recent years there has been a small number of incidents where criminals have kidnapped foreign nationals (including a British national in 2021) from their vehicles.
The long-standing policy of the British government is not to make substantive concessions to hostage takers. See kidnappings or hostages abroad.
Climbing Mulanje Mountain
If you plan to climb Mulanje Mountain, get security advice from the Mountain Club of Malawi.
Laws and cultural differences
Personal ID
Police sometimes ask to see ID. Always carry a copy of your passport and visa.
Clothing sensitivities
Outside the main tourist areas, you should dress conservatively to avoid offending local sensitivities.  
Illegal drugs penalties
Penalties for drug use and smuggling can be severe. This includes cannabis.
Uncut gemstones
It is illegal to buy uncut precious gemstones.
LGBT+ travellers
Homosexual acts are illegal.
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Wildlife, animal products and souvenirs
It is illegal to buy, sell, kill or capture any protected wild animal or trade its parts without a licence. Buying or selling ivory is illegal. If you are caught buying or carrying these items, you will be prosecuted and get a prison sentence or a fine.
Transport risks
Road travel
If you are planning to drive in Malawi, see information on driving abroad.
You can use a UK photocard driving licence to drive in Malawi for up to 90 days. If you still have a paper driving licence, you may need to update it to a photocard licence. If you get an international driving permit (IDP), you can drive for up to one year.  
Always carry your licence, and copies of your passport and your visa or residence permit when driving. You may need to show these at police checkpoints.
There are frequent fuel shortages in Malawi and there can often be long queues. Do not assume fuel will be available on your route. Plan ahead to make sure you can reach your destination.
Police use breathalyser tests and regularly stop vehicles for speeding. There are speed cameras on main roads, often where there are no speed limit signs. Police can give on-the-spot speeding fines. Drivers caught drink-driving or speeding can also have their licences and vehicles immediately confiscated. Convicted drivers face fines and possible imprisonment.
Driving standards and conditions
Driving in Malawi can be hazardous and there is a high rate of road fatalities. Potholes, animals, abandoned vehicles and cyclists can cause serious accidents, as can vehicles travelling at night without lights. Emergency services are basic.
Always wear a seatbelt and avoid travelling after dark.
Minibus and coach travel
Public minibuses and pick-up trucks are often in poor condition and overloaded. Larger coach services running between the major towns are more reliable.
Extreme weather and natural disasters
Rainy season
The rainy season runs from November to April and can make road travel difficult. Floods can make areas of Malawi inaccessible.
Monitor weather services, including the:
Malawi government’s Facebook weather page
Department of Climate and Meteorological Services
World Meteorological Organization
Check your route before travelling and follow the advice of the local authorities.
Earthquakes
Earthquakes are a risk in Malawi. The US Federal Emergency Management Agency has advice about what to do before, during and after an earthquake.
