Visit your health professional at least 4 to 6 weeks before your trip to check whether you need any vaccinations or other preventive measures. Country specific information and advice is published by the National Travel Health Network and Centre on the TravelHealthPro website and by NHS (Scotland) on the fitfortravel website. Useful information and advice about healthcare abroad is also available on the NHS Choices website.
UK health authorities have classified Martinique as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For more information and advice visit the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
Cases of Chikungunya virus have been confirmed in Martinique and the number of reported cases in the region is increasing. You should take steps to avoid being bitten by mosquitoes.
Dengue fever is common on Martinique. This is a mosquito-borne virus. Follow the advice from local authorities. If you display symptoms, consult a doctor.
General health care facilities, including emergency services in hospitals, and the availability of doctors, are very good and of an equivalent standard to those found in mainland France. Specialist treatment is also available.
You should get a European Health Insurance Card (EHIC) before leaving the UK. The EHIC provides emergency health cover for treatment in Martinique by the French state health service for which you will have to pay but you will be able to claim back up to 70% of the costs on your return to the UK. Visitors travelling (or being air lifted) to Martinique from other non-French islands specifically for medical treatment should be aware that such treatment will not necessarily be covered. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation.
If you are planning a permanent move to Martinique, consult the UK Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) for advice on long-term entitlement as residents to health care provision under the French national system. Enquiries should be made to the DWP Overseas Medical Benefits help-line on 00 44 191 218 1999. Alternatively, information can be obtained direct from the English language service of the Caisse Primaire d’Assurance Maladie (French social security service) on 00 33 8 20 90 42 12 or CLEISS (the Helpdesk in France for international mobility and social security) on 00 33 1 45 26 33 4. 
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 15 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
