

Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.    
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Martinique
Although there is no recent history of terrorism in Martinique, attacks cannot be ruled out.  
Ongoing Protests 
Following the outbreak of protests, since September 23, authorities have banned the sale and transport of fuels, petroleum, pyrotechnic articles and explosive products. 
Further restrictions and curfews may be imposed or amended at short notice. You should remain aware of what is happening around you and avoid areas where protests are taking place. Follow the advice of local authorities. The latest updates can be found here: Préfet of Martinique.
Crime
Protecting yourself and your belongings
Crime levels are low in Martinique, but to reduce your personal risk:
avoid isolated areas, including beaches, after dark
do not carry large amounts of cash or wear expensive jewellery
use hotel safes for passports, credit cards and other valuables when not in use
Outdoor activities and adventure tourism
Swimming safety
See water safety on holiday from the Royal Life Saving Society.
Scuba diving
Diving schools may have limited resources and do not always observe safety and maintenance standards. Always:   
check a dive operator’s credentials
check the conditions on your insurance policy – some policies require dive instructors to have certain qualifications
make sure safety equipment is available on the boat, particularly oxygen
ask about safety precautions, including the ability to transfer divers to a hyperbaric chamber
If you have not had any previous diving experience, check what to do if something goes wrong, including how to call for help while at sea.
Transport risks
Road travel
If you are planning to drive in Martinique, see information on driving abroad and check the rules of the road in the RAC’s France guide as French driving laws apply. The guide lists driving regulations and other legal requirements you need to be aware of.
Check with the local authorities or your car hire company what documents you need. You may need an international driving permit (IDP) as well as your UK driving licence.
Extreme weather and natural disasters
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards.
Hurricanes
Hurricane season in Martinique is normally from June to November. Monitor local and international weather updates from the World Meteorological Organization and the US National Hurricane Center.
Volcanic eruptions
Montagne Pelée is an active volcano. It is closely monitored. See the Volcanological and Seismological Observatory of Martinique for more information.
