The FCDO advises against all but essential travel to:
the whole of Martinique based on the current assessment of COVID-19 risks.
The requirement to self-isolate on return to the UK from Martinique remains in place (unless you are exempt). Check the latest guidance for England, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales.
Travel to Martinique is subject to entry restrictions
Travellers have to produce a negative result of a PCR test carried out less than 72 hours before arrival. Arrivals from most destinations will also be required to self-isolate for seven days, before taking another PCR test. See the local Prefecture website for further information.
Travellers may need to produce a self-certified document affirming that they have no COVID symptoms and that to their knowledge they have not been in contact with any person confirmed positive within the last 14 days.
These entry requirements are subject to change. For further information on the entry restrictions in place for French Overseas Territories, visit the French government’s website before travelling.
See Entry requirements for more information before you plan to travel.
Preparing for your return journey to the UK
If you’re returning to the UK from overseas, you will need to:
provide your journey and contact details before you travel
check if you need to self-isolate on your return
If your return journey to the UK transits another country, you should check whether it is subject to a travel ban or any other additional requirements. If so, contact your travel provider.
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
If you’re planning travel to Martinique, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCDO’s guidance on foreign travel insurance.
For information about COVID-19 vaccines, see the Coronavirus page.
Cases of coronavirus (COVID-19) have been confirmed in Martinique. The Martinique authorities have introduced a number of measures to limit the spread of the virus.
Several thousand British nationals visit Martinique each year. Most visits are trouble-free.
The hurricane season normally runs from June to November. You should monitor local and international weather updates from the US National Hurricane Centre and follow the advice of local authorities, including any evacuation orders. See Natural disasters.
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Martinique, attacks can’t be ruled out. See Terrorism.
Martinique is a French overseas territory. Consular support may be limited in Martinique. However, the British Embassy in Paris, France can provide consular support to British nationals.
