Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Nigeria on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
From 5 December 2021, all out-bound passengers are required to provide either valid evidence of full vaccination against Covid-19 or a negative PCR test result within 48 hours of departure.
International commercial flights resumed in Abuja and Lagos on 5 September 2020, following a postponement from the original date of 29 August. Contact your airline for the latest information on flights to and from Nigeria.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Nigeria.
Returning to the UK
Travelling from and returning to the UK
From 0400 on Monday 6 December, Nigeria will be added to the red list for entering England. Check what you must do to travel abroad and enter England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
If you plan to pass through another country to return to the UK, check the travel advice for the country you’re transiting. You must book your hotel quarantine package before you start your journey to the UK.
From 5 December 2021, all out-bound passengers from Nigeria are required to provide either valid evidence of full vaccination against Covid-19 or a negative PCR test result within 48 hours of departure.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with any UK government testing requirements. You should contact local authorities for information on testing facilities.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Nigeria
Passengers will be asked to follow a number of additional health procedures, including the following:
you must wear a mask or face covering
all passengers’ temperature will be taken on arrival at the airport
you are required to observe social distancing measures
you will be asked to use hand washing facilities installed outside the airports
your bags will be sprayed with decontamination fluids
Most states in Nigeria have introduced their own restrictions on movement. All travellers and residents in Nigeria are encouraged to monitor announcements by the Nigerian authorities on further restrictions, which may be introduced at short notice.
The Federal Government has relaxed the lockdown restrictions in place in Abuja and Lagos and replaced them with new requirements, including a nationwide daily night time curfew between midnight and 4am and the mandatory use of face masks in public.
Public spaces and services
Gatherings of over 50 people outside of work places are prohibited, including all weddings, conferences and sporting events. Places of worship are permitted to hold services, subject to limitations set by state authorities.
Visits to public institutions, including government buildings, have been limited.
Additional measures include a mandatory requirement to wear face masks in public spaces. Check the Nigerian Centre for Disease Control website for updates on further guidance on the implications of the lockdown restrictions.
Healthcare in Nigeria
Pharmacies are classified as an essential service, and will remain open. Most medicines that require a prescription from a doctor in the UK will require one in Nigeria. If necessary, you should get an electronic prescription from your medical practitioner to enable a local doctor to write one.
Unlike in the UK, you will need to go to a pharmacy or chemist to obtain most over-the-counter medicines. Only a very limited selection are available at supermarkets or other stores. Pharmacies are widely available. They will accept prescriptions from the UK.
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Nigeria
Wherever possible British nationals should aim to be vaccinated in the country where they live. We will update this page when the Government of Nigeria announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Nigerian national vaccination programme started in March 2021 and is using the AstraZeneca and Pfizer-BioNTech vaccines. British nationals resident in Nigeria are eligible for vaccination. Health workers (and other front line staff) will be prioritised in the first phase. This will be followed by phase 2 (people aged 50 and above) and phase 3 (people with co-morbidities).
The vaccine registration e-portal is now open on the NPHCDA website. Nigerians and residents of Nigeria will be eligible according to priority. You should upload your National Identity Number (NIN), passport or other forms of ID as advised on the portal in order to register. You can get further information on registration from the NPHCDA on 00 234 (0) 803 123 0415/0416.
You can also obtain further information from National Primary Health Care Development Agency (NPHCDA) or contact individual State Health authorities who will be responsible for the vaccine roll out in each State.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in Nigeria, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
The Nigerian Centre for Disease Control has a 24 hour, toll free number for advice: (+00234) (0) 800 970 000010.
SMS: (+00234) (0) 809 955 5577
WhatsAapp: (+00234) (0) 708 7110839
Mobile: (+00234) (0) 703 670 8970 0010.
