This page has information on travelling to Nigeria. Check what you must do to return to the UK.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport from the UK, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Nigeria set and enforce entry rules.
All travellers
You will need a valid visa to enter or travel through Nigeria as a visitor.
See Visas section for more information.
You may be asked to take part in thermal screening and/or travel history checks when arriving into Nigeria. This is to assist the Nigerian Government in the detection of diseases of public health importance.
If you’re fully vaccinated
Prior to departure, all passengers travelling to Nigeria must register and complete the on-line pre-boarding health declaration at the Nigeria International Travel Portal.
Travellers must present two documents at their point of departure. A verifiable proof of vaccination certificate and a permit to travel certificate, which will be obtained after completion of the pre-boarding health declaration.
From 00:01am on Monday, 4th April, 2022 in-bound passengers to Nigeria who are fully vaccinated against COVID-19 are no longer required to carry out a COVID-19 PCR test.
Fully vaccinated passengers arriving in Nigeria will not be required to carry out a post arrival PCR test or a rapid antigen test upon arriving in Nigeria.
Proof of vaccination status
On arrival in Nigeria, where applicable you must present proof that you have been fully vaccinated.
Nigeria will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 vaccination record and proof of COVID-19 vaccination issued in the Crown Dependencies. You should also carry a printed offline copy. Your final vaccine dose must have been administered at least two weeks prior to travel. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
Nigeria doesn’t accept UK’s proof of recovery.
If you’re not fully vaccinated
Prior to departure, all passengers travelling to Nigeria must register and complete the on-line pre-boarding health declaration at the Nigeria International Travel Portal.
Passengers must have tested negative for COVID-19 within 48 hours of their departure to Nigeria, and have uploaded their PCR test certificate to the on-line Travel Portal.
Passengers must carry evidence of the test and result when they travel. Only a COVID-19 PCR test is acceptable to the Nigerian authorities. Passengers must also provide a copy of the permit to travel certificate, which will be obtained after completion of the pre-boarding health declaration.
Partially or unvaccinated passengers must also book and pay for a repeat PCR test for day 2 of their arrival and a day 7 post-arrival exit PCR test. Evidence of test booking will be required on arrival. This must be booked through the Nigeria International Travel Portal.
On arrival all passengers will be screened by Port Health Officials and be required to provide full contact details, including their address in Nigeria. The Nigerian government has said it will closely monitor whether passengers are following the quarantine measures and conducting the repeat PCR test.
Unvaccinated or partially vaccinated passengers must self-isolate for 7 days on arrival, until they receive a negative COVID-19 test result from their day 7 PCR test.
Find out if you qualify as fully vaccinated in Nigeria on the Nigeria International Travel Portal.
If you’ve had COVID-19 in the past year
Entry requirements for Nigeria are the same for all travellers, regardless of whether you have tested positive for COVID-19 in the past year.
Children and young people
Prior to departure, all passengers travelling to Nigeria must register and complete the online pre-boarding health declaration at the Nigeria International Travel Portal.
From 00:01 am on Monday, 4th April, 2022 no pre-departure or post arrival PCR tests are required for children aged 17 and under.
If you’re transiting through Nigeria
All passengers travelling to Nigeria in order to transit to another country, must also register and complete the online pre-boarding health declaration at the Nigeria International Travel Portal.
On arrival all passengers will be screened by Port Health Officials and be required to provide full contact details.
The above guidance applicable to fully vaccinated or not fully vaccinated travellers, should be followed for all transit passengers, including those staying in the airport (airside), or passing through immigration (sometimes known as a layover).
Exemptions
From 00:01 am on Monday, 4th April, 2022 no pre-departure or post arrival PCR tests are required for children aged 17 and under.
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
Passport validity
If you are visiting Nigeria, your passport should be valid for a minimum period of 6 months from the date you arrive.
If you are a resident in Nigeria, your passport must be valid for 6 months from the date you arrive.
Check with your travel provider to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Visas
You should get a valid visa before travelling.
Some business travellers might be eligible to apply for a visa on arrival. Applications for a visa on arrival must be made in advance and applicants must obtain a pre-approval letter from the Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS) before travelling. Guidance on applying for a visa on arrival is available on the NIS website.
If you have a valid Nigerian residence permit (CERPAC or Green Card) you don’t need a visa to enter Nigeria.
For further information on entry requirements, contact the Nigeria High Commission in London.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK ETDs are accepted for entry, airside transit and exit from Nigeria providing they are endorsed with the appropriate visa.
Returning to the UK
All passengers travelling out of Nigeria are encouraged to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19.
Check what you must do to return to the UK.
