!
Warning
FCDO advises against all travel to parts of Nigeria.

This section has safety advice for regions of Nigeria. It only covers regions where FCDO has specific advice. 
Insecurity is increasing across Nigeria. Kidnapping, violent crime, and intercommunal violence occur throughout all regions of Nigeria. You should also read FCDO’s overall travel advice and safety and security advice.
North East Nigeria
FCDO advises against all travel to:
Borno State
Yobe State
Adamawa State
Gombe State
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to:
Bauchi state
There is a high and increasing threat from Boko Haram or Islamic State West Africa, particularly around transport hubs, religious areas and large gatherings. Humanitarian personnel, vehicles, supplies and infrastructure can be targeted by terrorists and criminals.
There is a high threat of kidnap and violent attacks. Intercommunal tensions can lead to outbreaks of violence. During the dry season when roads are more easily accessible this risk is heightened. 
Regular military operations are ongoing in Adamawa, Borno and Yobe states. There is a risk of retaliatory attacks.
If you’re in the north-east against FCDO advice, keep in touch with the authorities and the wider community on the security situation. Make sure your safety procedures and contingency plans are up to date. If you are working, make sure you have confidence in your employer’s ability to extract you in the event of any emergency.
If in Maiduguri, be aware that if security were to deteriorate any further, it could be extremely difficult for you to leave the city. Be mindful of the risks of travelling by road in this area and take precautions.
North West Nigeria
FCDO advises against all travel to:
Katsina State
Zamfara State
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to:
Kaduna State
Kano State
Kebbi State
Jigawa State
Sokoto State
Banditry and violent attacks are frequent and there is a high threat of kidnap. Incidents of intercommunal violence occur and trains are vulnerable to attack. If you’re travelling in the north-west against FCDO advice, be extremely cautious and monitor local media.
North Central Nigeria and the Federal Capital Territory, including Abuja
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to:
Niger State
Kogi State
Plateau State
Taraba State
This advice is due to criminal and militant activity and incidents of intercommunal violence.
The outer suburbs of Abuja, within the Federal Capital Territory are prone to varying levels of violence, and the safety of daily activity is unpredictable. Violent crime, often involving firearms, has increased and spread from the outer suburbs to more central, wealthier areas of the city.
See Terrorism
Be cautious when travelling in the Federal Capital Territory. Take advice from trusted contacts and be prepared to cancel or limit your plans. British Government staff in Nigeria have been advised to restrict travel to an area broadly within the Abuja metropolitan area.
There are protests in Abuja from time to time, which can turn violent. Monitor local media, avoid demonstrations and large gatherings and follow instructions from local police and security forces.
There has been an increase in intercommunal violence in Benue State, with a number of deaths reported. There may be increased security presence in parts of the state.
South East and South South Nigeria
FCDO advises against all travel to the riverine areas (the river and swamp locations accessible by boat, but not by road) of Delta, Bayelsa, Rivers, Akwa Ibom and Cross River states.
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to:
Abia State
non-riverine areas of Delta, Bayelsa and Rivers states
Anambra State
Imo State
Militant groups are active across the Niger Delta region and have carried out a number of attacks on oil and gas infrastructure. There’s a high risk of armed robbery, criminality and kidnap in the Niger Delta region.
There have been attacks and targeted killings. Some attacks have been on isolated roads and in remote locations, but they could occur in metropolitan areas. There is also a heightened risk of indiscriminate attacks on police and security infrastructure, which may affect bystanders. A number of states have imposed curfews. Be cautious about travelling in remote areas at night and follow local news and information outlets.
Secessionist groups are active in the south-east and attacks and violent clashes often occur with the military and other security forces. Although foreign nationals are not normally targeted, there is a risk you could be caught in an attack. Some previous protests have turned violent. In Imo State there is an emerging trend of successionist groups using improvised explosive devices though the overall number of incidents remains relatively low. Anyone travelling to the region should exercise increased caution and continue to follow FCDO travel advice. Monitor local government announcements and media reporting.
South West Nigeria including Lagos
Violent crimes such as mugging, kidnapping, car-jacking and armed robbery are common, particularly in the larger cities. Intercommunal violence is common and can flare up suddenly. Large-scale terrorist attacks are rare, but Islamic State West Africa claimed 2 attacks in 2022. While these attacks have not targeted foreign nationals, try to avoid being caught up in such incidents.
Be cautious when travelling in Lagos, particularly on the mainland, which attracts high levels of crime and where security levels can be unpredictable. Street crime is a significant risk across Lagos, particularly in crowded areas. Take sensible measures to guard your possessions and reduce your personal risk. Be cautious when moving around Lagos at night, risks can be particularly high when moving around the city by foot.
Be alert and take any security advice given by your hotel, employer or your hosts.
