Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

There are currently no commercial options available to return to the UK from Nigeria. All airports in Nigeria are closed to all international commercial flights until at least 7 May.
UK special flights
The British Government will operate special flights from Abuja and Lagos for British national tourists, short-term visitors and their direct dependants to return to the UK on 28 April from Abuja and on 1 and 5 May from Lagos.
The cost of the flights is £491 from Abuja and £504 from Lagos.
To be eligible to book these flights, you must be normally resident in the UK.
British nationals (and their immediate dependants) normally resident in the UK are being prioritised for these flights.
Within that group, vulnerable British Nationals continue to be prioritised.
Vulnerable non-British UK Residents with Indefinite Leave to Remain in the UK, and other foreign nationals, will only be accommodated if there is sufficient capacity.
Your eligibility, including your UK address, will be checked before your tickets are issued.
If you wish to travel, you must register on the CTM website as soon as possible:
book tickets from Abuja
book tickets from Lagos
To book flights, you will need:
full passport and contact details for each traveller you are registering
your UK home address and postcode
your means of payment, such as credit or debit card details
You will be told your travel date when your booking is confirmed. Changes will not be possible, and tickets will not be on sale at the airports. Confirmation may come at short notice and you will not be able to change your travel date, so please be ready to travel from the date of the next advertised flights: 28 April for Abuja and 1 May for Lagos.
Help with booking
If you are unable to complete this online form and want to return to the UK, send a SMS text message with your full name to +44 7860 093 012 (if you’re travelling from Lagos) or to +44 7860 078 559 (if you’re travelling from Abuja) and we will get in touch to assist you. Some international charges may apply.
If you are unable pay the cost of the ticket, send an SMS text message containing ONLY your full name to +44 7860 093 012 (if you’re travelling from Lagos) or to +44 7860 078 559 (if you’re travelling from Abuja). Someone from the CTM team will get in touch to assist you. If you have exhausted all other options available to you for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the FCO to cover the cost of the ticket.
This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
After your booking is confirmed
After your booking is confirmed, we will email all the details you will need including the time you will need to be at the airport.
You must print and take your confirmed itinerary from CTM with you to the airport, and if you are stopped at checkpoints, show it to security personnel and make clear that you are going to the airport to fly home to the UK on a government-approved flight.
You should continue to comply with the lockdown restrictions in Abuja, Lagos and state-specific restrictions on movement, with the exception of travelling to the airport immediately before your flight. We are working with federal and state governments to help ensure that travellers outside Abuja and Lagos can get to the airports despite movement restrictions.
Arrival in the UK
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Future options
The Nigerian authorities have not confirmed when commercial flights will start again, so we strongly recommend travelling on one of the special charter flights if you need to return to the UK soon. Dependent on demand, we might seek to arrange additional future flights. If you cannot get a ticket for the next phase of flights starting in Abuja on 28 April and Lagos on 1 May then please maintain contact with the British High Commission and check this travel advice regularly.
What to do
If you cannot leave Nigeria at this time, you should:
Follow the advice of local authorities, including local measures to help minimise your risk of exposure to coronavirus;
Find accommodation that’s suitable for your needs;
Keep in regular contact with family and friends at home, so they know you are safe and well.
See more information and advice about staying where you are if you cannot return to the UK.
Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British High Commission on Twitter and Facebook: @UKinNigeria and @DFIDNigeria.
Help and support
The best way to contact us for consular assistance is to use the contact form on our websites:
For the Abuja contact form
For the Lagos contact form
If you want to call instead, the numbers for assistance are:
For Abuja: +234 (9) 462 3100
For Lagos: + 234 (1) 277 0780/0781/0782
The High Commission cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone. This page will be updated when departure options become available. To get the latest information, sign up for travel advice email alerts.
Further information
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
