Local travel
On 5 June 2022, there was a gun attack at a church in Owo, Ondo State, causing at least 40 deaths. The High Commission are in contact with the local authorities. If you are in the area, you should monitor local media, exercise caution and follow the advice of local authorities.
Since 9 August 2021, there has been an increase in protests and demonstrations in the South East region of Nigeria. Protests, including “Stay at Home” protests, remain likely in the South East region. There have been reports of violence during Stay at Home protests previously. You should monitor local media, avoid any demonstrations or large gatherings and follow any instructions from local police and security forces.
There have been a number of attacks and targeted killings in the South East and South South regions of Nigeria, including in the states of Akwa Ibom, Rivers, Imo, Abia, Anambra, Delta, Edo and Ebonyi. Some of these attacks have been on isolated roads and in remote locations, but there is a chance that they could occur in metropolitan areas. There is also a heightened risk of indiscriminate attacks on police and security infrastructure, which may inadvertently affect bystanders. A number of states have imposed curfews. Travellers to these regions are advised to exercise caution if travelling in remote areas at night and follow local news and information outlets for further information, including on local curfews.
The Nigerian police launched ‘Operation Restore Peace’ on 19 May 2021 to deal with the recent increase in insecurity in South South and South Eastern states. This may lead to an enhanced security presence on the ground. There is no indication as to how long this operation will last. You should exercise caution whilst travelling in the region.
During October 2020, there were a number of large-scale protests (known as #EndSARS protests) in Abuja, Lagos and other locations across Nigeria. Strikes over workers’ rights in Kaduna State started on 17 May 2021. Protests have occurred and disruptions to transport and utilities have been reported. You should remain vigilant, avoid demonstrations, protests or large gatherings and pay attention to local media and social media reports on protest locations.
In January 2020, the al Qaeda-linked terrorist group Jamaat al Ansar al Muslimeen fi Bilad al Sudan, better known as Ansaru, claimed to have killed at least six people, kidnapped dozens, and destroyed several vehicles during an ambush along the Kaduna-Zaira highway in Kaduna State. You should avoid regular patterns of travel or movement, and aim to only travel during daylight hours. See Terrorism.
Since January 2018, the Islamic Movement of Nigeria (IMN) has protested regularly in central Abuja and other cities. These protests, particularly in Abuja, have the potential to turn violent. Local media reported a fatality on 21 January 2020 when police allegedly fired gunshots and tear gas to disperse protesters near the Berger roundabout in Wuse, Abuja. Tensions remain heightened. You should monitor local media, avoid any demonstrations or large gatherings and follow any instructions from local police and security forces.
Incidents of inter-communal violence occur frequently throughout Nigeria, particularly in the middle belt states. Attacks can occur without warning. Although foreign nationals are not normally targeted, there is a risk you could be caught in an attack. You should be alert to local government announcements and media reporting.
Political rallies, protests and violent demonstrations can occur with little notice throughout the country. International news events can sometimes trigger anti-Western demonstrations. There is the potential for increased tension on Fridays. Keep yourself informed of developments and if you encounter a threatening or intimidating situation, don’t try to make your way through it. Turn round and move to safety.
If you’re working in Nigeria, you should follow your employer’s local security guidelines. You are strongly advised to take professional security advice, be vigilant at all times and review your security measures regularly. Keep others informed of your travel plans and vary your routines. Make sure your accommodation is secure and consider pre-deployment training or travelling under close protection.
Be vigilant and take local advice on areas to avoid. Take particular care if you’re visiting crowded public places or attending events which attract large crowds. You should be extra vigilant if attending upcoming sporting events, which are likely to have heightened security and large crowds of people.
The Federal Capital Territory, including Abuja
The outer suburbs of Abuja, within the Federal Capital Territory can be prone to varying levels of violence, and the safety of daily activity is unpredictable. Violent crime, often involving firearms, has also increased in recent months and has spread from the outer suburbs to more central and wealthier areas of the city.
The risk of terrorism in Abuja and the Federal Capital Territory area has increased in 2022.  For information on terrorism, see Terrorism page
On 5 July 2022 the Kuje Prison in The Federal Capital Territory was bombed and attacked by gunmen. An unknown number of prisoners escaped, including suspected terrorists. Islamic State West Africa (ISWA) has claimed responsibility for the attack. This may result in increased insecurity in the Federal Capital Territory and surrounding states. 
You should be cautious and vigilant when travelling in the Federal Capital Territory, take advice from trusted contacts, and be prepared to cancel or curtail your plans.
Northern Nigeria
The FCDO advise against all travel to Borno State, Yobe State, Adamawa State, Gombe State, Kaduna State, Katsina State, and Zamfara State. Violent attacks are frequent and there is a high threat of kidnap. On 26 March 2022, gunmen launched an attack against Kaduna airport, killing at least one airport official in the latest in a series of attacks by gunmen in the north of Nigeria. On the evening of 29 March 2022, an apparent Improvised Explosive Device attack took place against a train travelling from Abuja to Kaduna. Reports suggest that a number of people were killed and that others were abducted by gunmen. Trains in Kaduna State are likely to remain vulnerable to attack.
There is a threat from extremists linked to Boko Haram or ISWA in Borno, Yobe and Adamawa States in particular. The threat level in North East Nigeria including around Maiduguri is increasing, particularly around transport hubs, religious areas and large gatherings. Kidnaps have taken place along the roads in and out of Maiduguri. As the dry season starts in October, this risk is expected to increase even further. See Criminal kidnaps and Terrorism.
If the security situation in Maiduguri were to deteriorate any further, there is a significant likelihood that it could be extremely difficult for you to leave the city. We do not advise travelling by road.
The FCDO advise against all but essential travel to: Bauchi State, Kano State, Jigawa State, Niger State, Sokoto State, Plateau State and Taraba State; and within 20km of the border with Niger in Kebbi State. There is a high risk of violent attacks and inter-communal tensions can lead to outbreaks of violence. There is also a threat of kidnap. See Criminal kidnaps.
There has been an increase in inter-communal and political violence in Plateau and Taraba States, often resulting in fatalities. This can break out with little notice. ISWA claimed responsibility for three attacks in Taraba State in April and May 2022. Further attacks may occur without warning in Taraba and Plateau. There has also been an increase in reports of kidnap in Plateau State in the first part of 2022. Travellers should also be alert to increased violence and the risk of kidnap in Benue State. See Criminal kidnaps.
If you travel to areas to which the FCDO advise against travel, you’re particularly at risk and will need a high level of security. If you’re working in Northern Nigeria you should make sure your employers provide an adequate level of security where you live and where you work. Make sure they regularly review security arrangements and familiarise yourself with those plans. You should avoid regular patterns of travel or movement, and aim to travel only during daylight hours. Westerners have been kidnapped from protected compounds.
From 3 September 2021, the Nigerian Commission mandated for all telecommunication operators in Nigeria to stop extending services to Zamfara State. This included the suspension of all mobile telecommunications including WiFi. A number of other state governments, including Kaduna, Katsina, Sokoto, Kebbi and Niger also implemented a partial shutdown of telecom services. There are reports that some of these restrictions have been lifted, with Nigerian media reporting that communications in Kaduna and Zamfara States have been restored as of December 2021.
Despite the reported restoration of communications in some states, future shutdowns may happen at short notice and may also be extended to new areas without advanced notice.
Although not officially included in the suspension, there is a possibility that areas of neighbouring states to Zamfara, including state border regions with Sokoto, Kebbi, Niger and Kaduna may also be affected by the telecommunications black-out.
Regular military operations are ongoing in Adamawa, Borno and Yobe states. If you live or work in Nigeria you should monitor developments in these states and announcements by the state governments as there is an increased threat of retaliatory attacks elsewhere in Nigeria as a result of these military operations.
There has been an increase in insurgent attacks in Borno State. Since October 2019, there has been an increasing trend of terrorist groups constructing illegal vehicle checkpoints on major supply and commercial routes in Northern Nigeria and attacking vehicles travelling on major roads into Maiduguri, Borno State, including the A3 Maiduguri-Damaturu road. These attacks have directly targeted civilians, security forces and aid workers. Furthermore, 2020 has seen increased activity by terrorist groups and related violent incidents in the immediate vicinity of humanitarian hubs. A humanitarian hub was targeted during an attack on Monguno town on 13 June 2020. This was followed by negative propaganda about humanitarian activity in the North East. In July 2020, shots were fired at a UN humanitarian helicopter in the region. Local humanitarian staff were executed in an unrelated event.
If you’re in the North East against FCDO advice, keep in touch with the authorities and the wider community on the security situation and make sure your procedures and contingency plans are up to date. If you are working in the North East of Nigeria you should be fully confident in your employer’s ability to extract you from the North East in the event of any emergency.
The Niger Delta States
The FCDO advise against all travel to the riverine areas (ie the river and swamp locations accessible by boat, but not by road) of Delta, Bayelsa, Rivers, Akwa Ibom and Cross River States.
The FCDO advise against all but essential travel to Abia State and non-riverine areas of Delta, Bayelsa and Rivers States.
Militant groups are active across the Niger Delta region and have carried out a number of attacks on oil and gas infrastructure. There’s a high risk of armed robbery, criminality and criminal kidnap in the Niger Delta region.
Nigeria borders
Additional checks are in place at the Nigeria-Benin, Nigeria-Niger and Nigeria-Cameroon land borders. If you’re planning to make a land crossing from Nigeria, check with the local authorities for the latest information before travelling.
Criminal kidnaps
There’s a high threat of terrorist and criminal kidnaps in Nigeria.
Those engaged in tourism, humanitarian aid work, journalism or business are viewed as legitimate targets. If you are kidnapped, the reason for your presence is unlikely to serve as protection or secure your safe release. Incidents of criminal kidnap can occur in any part of the country, at any time, with an increased risk in:
the northern and middle belt states of Adamawa, Bauchi, Borno, Gombe, Kaduna, Kano, Katsina, Nassarawa, Niger, Plateau, Sokoto, Taraba, Benue, Yobe and Zamfara
the Niger Delta states of Abia, Akwa Ibom, Anambra, Bayelsa, Delta, Imo and Rivers
Edo State
Criminal groups target whole communities or individuals, sometimes along major highways. Since 2019, this has been particularly prevalent on the Abuja – Kaduna highway. It also occurs along the Enugu-Awka-Onitsha expressway in Anambra. Since 2019, there has been an increase in kidnaps for ransom by criminal gangs in Northern Nigeria.
Travellers wishing to travel to any of the locations above should be alert to the threat if kidnap, and pay attention to local government announcements and media reporting.
British nationals may be targeted. Foreign nationals, including British nationals, have been kidnapped in the past, and in some cases killed. Most of these kidnaps occurred in the Niger Delta region. There is a high threat of kidnapping and other armed attacks targeting oil and gas facilities and workers in the Niger Delta region. This also applies to facilities at sea. British nationals of Nigerian origin visiting friends and relatives are often perceived as being wealthier than locals and are at particular risk of kidnap for ransom. There is a possibility that criminal groups would sell hostages on to terrorist organisations. See Terrorism.
The great majority of kidnapping victims remain ordinary Nigerians. Foreigners as well as Nigerian businessmen, traditional rulers and politicians are often targeted in the expectation of a high ransom reward. When arranging meetings in Nigeria make sure those who attend are known to you and hold the meeting at a secure location.
The long-standing policy of the British government is not to make substantive concessions to hostage takers. The British government considers that paying ransoms and releasing prisoners increases the risk of further hostage taking. The Terrorism Act (2000) also makes payments to terrorists illegal.
Curfews
There have been a number of attacks and targeted killings in the South East and South South regions of Nigeria, including in the states of Akwa Ibom, Rivers, Imo, Abia, Anambra, Delta, Edo and Ebonyi. A number of states have imposed curfews. Travellers to these regions are advised to exercise caution if travelling in remote areas at night and follow local news and information outlets for further information, including on local curfews.
Curfews and restrictions on the movement of vehicles, can be imposed, amended and lifted at short notice throughout Nigeria.
Failure to comply with all curfews and movement restrictions could put you at significant risk. You should check with the local authorities or someone with local knowledge for up to date information on curfews and restrictions before you travel.
Maritime security
There have been armed robberies and incidents of piracy in Nigerian waters, the wider Gulf of Guinea, and on the rivers and harbours in the Niger Delta area. Mariners should seek professional security advice, be vigilant and take appropriate precautions.
Crime
Throughout Nigeria there are high levels of violent street crime including muggings, kidnappings, car-jackings and armed robbery.
Criminals have targeted visiting British nationals as their perceived wealth makes them an attractive victim.
You should be vigilant at all times, even if staying with friends and family, follow the security guidance offered by employers or hosts and limit road travel at night as far as possible. Avoid carrying large amounts of cash and don’t wear valuable watches, jewellery or items of sentimental value. If you suspect danger, move to a safer area.
There are reports of criminal intent to target areas around international hotels in Abuja. It is likely that these potential attacks would be carried out by armed gangs. At this time of heightened threat, avoid loitering outside hotel security cordons and be extra vigilant when travelling in their vicinity.
If you’re caught up in an armed robbery, you should immediately comply with the attackers’ demands. Those who have suffered injury or worse during such attacks have been perceived as not complying fully or quickly enough.
A British national was tragically killed in Kaduna on Friday 19 April 2019. The FCDO advises against all travel to Kaduna. You should exercise additional vigilance in crowded public places.
Scams
British nationals are increasingly being targeted by scam artists operating in West Africa. The scams come in many forms including romance and friendship, business ventures and work or employment opportunities. Scams can pose great financial risk to victims. You should be very cautious about any requests for funds, a job offer, a business venture or a face to face meeting from someone you have been in correspondence with over the internet who lives in West Africa. You can read more about scam or ‘419’ emails and letters on the Action Fraud website.
If you or your relatives or friends are asked to transfer money to Nigeria you should make absolutely sure that it is not part of a scam and that you have properly checked with the person receiving the money that they are requesting it. If the caller claims to be in distress, you should ask whether they have reported the incident (by phone or e-mail) to the British Deputy High Commission in Lagos.
People have received scam e-mails claiming to be from a British High Commission office in Nigeria. If you receive an email that appears to be from any British High Commission office in Nigeria asking for bank details or money, you should immediately contact the Consular Section of the British Deputy High Commission in Lagos.
If you’re considering fertility treatment in Nigeria, you should be cautious. There have been a number of staged fake births (commonly called ‘miracle babies’) which result in visitors being falsely led to believe they have given birth. You should be aware of the risks associated with bringing a child who is not biologically related to you into the UK without following appropriate legal procedures.
Road travel
Road travel across Nigeria can be chaotic and slow moving. You should take a mobile telephone and a supply of bottled water with you when travelling by car.
You can drive in Nigeria with a valid UK driving licence for up to 3 months. If you’re staying longer, you will need to get a Nigerian Driver’s Licence. You can contact the Federal Road Safety Corp on their website.
You should limit travel after dark outside city centres as far as possible; and avoid quiet and poorly lit roads. You should be particularly vigilant when sitting in traffic jams or at traffic lights. Keep car windows up and doors locked, and make sure valuables are out of sight. If you feel your vehicle is being followed, drive to the nearest place of safety (eg the nearest police station).
You should take particular care when driving outside cities and consider travelling in convoy and avoid travel after dark.
In Lagos, eating, smoking or using a mobile phone while driving and riding a motorcycle without a helmet are prohibited. Motorists face fines or imprisonment for violations.
There are authorised and unauthorised vehicle checkpoints throughout Nigeria. Some are for security checks, others to extort small payments of money. You should slow down at any type of checkpoint and use common sense at all times.
Since October 2019, there has been an increasing trend of illegal vehicle checkpoints on major supply and commercial routes in Northern Nigeria. This includes attacks on major roads into Maiduguri, Borno State, including the A3 Maiduguri-Damaturu road. These attacks have directly targeted civilians, security forces and aid workers.
There are frequent reports of robberies and car-jackings, some involving armed gunmen, on Nigeria’s urban and rural road network.
Public transport throughout Nigeria is dangerous. Taxis and long distance buses are often poorly maintained, uninsured and driven by unqualified drivers. Most major hotels offer cars for hire with drivers. You should use these where possible.
If you are expecting a greeter or driver to collect you at any of Nigeria’s international airports, make sure they have properly identified themselves before you set off. Bogus greeters are a problem.
Air travel
The Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria have announced that the domestic runway of the Murtala Muhammad Airport, Lagos, will be closed for repairs from 8 July onwards. The closure is expected to last for 90 days, during this time domestic flights will use the international runway. This may result in disruption and delays, particularly to domestic flights.
You can find a list of recent incidents and accidents on the website of the Aviation Safety network.
The FCDO can’t offer advice on the safety of individual airlines. However, the International Air Transport Association publishes lists of registered airlines that have been audited and found to meet a number of operational safety standards and recommended practices – IATA Operational Safety Audit and IATA Standard Safety Assessment. These lists aren’t exhaustive and the absence of an airline from this list doesn’t necessarily mean that it’s unsafe.
The International Civil Aviation Organisation has carried out an audit of the level of implementation of the critical elements of safety oversight in Nigeria.
Med-View airline has been refused permission to operate services to the EU due to safety deficiencies. However, Med-View airline may continue to operate services to the EU using aircraft leased from other airlines. You can find a full list of airlines banned from operating within the EU on the European Commission website. Refusal of permission to operate is often based on inspections of aircraft at EU airports. The fact that an airline isn’t included in the list doesn’t automatically mean that it meets the applicable safety standards. British government employees travelling within Nigeria have been advised to use carriers that aren’t subject to the EU operating ban.
Airlines flying between Nigeria and London can occasionally become overbooked.
Swimming
Swimming off the coast of Nigeria is dangerous due to rip tides and undertows, drownings occur each year. You should take care and seek local advice.
Political situation
President Muhammadu Buhari of the All Progressives Congress Party was democratically re-elected for a second term in February 2019.
Before President Buhari took office, Goodluck Jonathan of the People’s Democratic Party was President from 2010 – 2015.
Nigeria’s next Presidential Election is scheduled to take place in February 2023.
The current Nigerian Constitution was enacted in 1999 and restored democratic rule to Nigeria, bringing an end to 30 years of military rule.
Nigeria’s National Day falls on 1 October, and marks the anniversary of Nigeria’s independence from Britain in 1960.
