This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Nigeria as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Nigeria to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Nigeria
For information on entering Nigeria, see Entry requirements
Most states in Nigeria have introduced their own restrictions on movement. All travellers and residents in Nigeria are encouraged to monitor announcements by federal and state governments on further restrictions, which are likely to be introduced with little advance notice.
The Federal Government (FG) has announced that from 4 May until 1 June the lockdown restrictions in place in Abuja and Lagos will be relaxed and replaced with new requirements including a nationwide daily night time curfew between 8:00pm and 06:00am and the mandatory use of facemasks in public. Check the Nigerian Centre for Disease Control website for further guidance on the implications of the easing of the lockdown restrictions in Abuja and Lagos.
The FG also advised that travel to or from other states should be postponed.
Visas
The Nigerian authorities have advised that British nationals who exceed their authorised visa stays because of travel restrictions linked to coronavirus will not be penalised for overstaying when they depart.
Health
Pharmacies are classified as an essential service, and will remain open. Most medicines that require a prescription from a doctor in the UK will require one in Nigeria. If necessary, you should get an electronic prescription from your medical practitioner to enable a local doctor to write one.
Only government operated isolation centres can treat coronavirus related issues.
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Nigeria.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Nigeria, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
The Nigerian Centre for Disease Control has a 24 hour, toll free number for advice: (00234) (0) 800 970 000010.
SMS: (00234) (0) 809 955 5577
Whatsapp: (00234) (0) 708 7110839
Mobile: (00234) (0) 703 670 8970 0010.
The latest information can be found on the Nigerian Centre for Disease Control website.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
