!
Warning
FCDO advises against all travel to parts of Nigeria.

The Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) provides advice about risks of travel to help British nationals make informed decisions. Find out more about FCDO travel advice.
The Nigeria Labour Congress and Trade Union Congress of Nigeria have commenced a nationwide strike affecting public services across Nigeria.  This includes disruptions at all Nigerian airports, including international terminals.  You are advised to check with your airline or agent before travelling and make alternative arrangements where required.
Areas where FCDO advises against travel
Your travel insurance could be invalidated if you travel against FCDO advice.
North East Nigeria
FCDO advises against all travel to:
Borno State
Yobe State
Adamawa State
Gombe State
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to:
Bauchi State
Taraba State
North West Nigeria
FCDO advises against all travel to:
Kaduna State
Katsina State
Zamfara State
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to:
Kano State
Jigawa State
Sokoto State
within 20km of the border with Niger in Kebbi State
North Central Nigeria and the Federal Capital Territory, including Abuja
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to:
Niger State
Kogi State
Plateau State
South East and South South Nigeria
FCDO advises against all travel to the riverine areas (the river and swamp locations accessible by boat, but not by road) of Delta, Bayelsa, Rivers, Akwa Ibom and Cross River states.
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to:
Abia State
non-riverine areas of Delta, Bayelsa, and Rivers and Akwa Ibom states
Anambra State
Imo State
Nigeria-Niger border   
The Nigeria-Niger land border has been closed by the Nigerian authorities in response to the political situation in Niger. If you’re planning to travel by land across this border, check with the local authorities for the latest information before travelling.
See Niger travel advice before travelling by land across this border.
Find out more about why FCDO advises against travel. 
Before you travel
No travel can be guaranteed safe. Read all the advice in this guide as well as support for British nationals abroad which includes:
advice on preparing for travel abroad and reducing risks
information for women, LGBT+ and disabled travellers
Follow and contact FCDO travel on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram. You can also sign up to get email notifications when this advice is updated.
Travel insurance
If you choose to travel, research your destinations and get appropriate travel insurance. Insurance should cover your itinerary, planned activities and expenses in an emergency.
