Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Myanmar on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
As of 1 February Myanmar’s airports have been shut to regular commercial air services until the end of May. Some ‘relief’ flights are operating. Neighbouring countries have also closed their land borders to Myanmar. For further information, see Return to the UK.
Residents of the United Kingdom, or those who have visited the United Kingdom within the previous 14 days, are currently unable to enter Myanmar. Those not travelling from the United Kingdom, including British Nationals, should check the requirements for travel from that country to Myanmar with the relevant Myanmar Embassy or Consulate General.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Myanmar.
Travel in Myanmar
A limited schedule of domestic flights is operating, though the rules for access to these is not clear. You are advised to stay home at night, and minimise movement during the day, avoiding crowds. If you do still attempt to travel domestically, please note that you may encounter checkpoints on your journey. Prior to recent events, those taking a domestic flight inside Myanmar needed to take a COVID-19 test no more than 36 hours prior to departure. You may still be required to quarantine on arrival at your destination, particularly if you are coming from an area under a ‘Stay at Home’ order. You should contact individual airlines for details, and should comply with all the relevant guidance and regulations while travelling.
In some areas there may be local requirements for visitors from other parts of the country, including the requirement to take a COVID-19 test in advance of travel, and to quarantine on arrival. You should check with local authorities for information on possible local preventative measures.
The majority of townships in Yangon are currently under a ‘Stay at Home’ order. Coco Island Region, Seikkyi/Khanaungto, Twantay, and Kwangyangon are not under a ‘Stay at Home’ order.
The rules for Yangon townships under a ‘Stay at Home’ order state that residents should stay in their own homes. Only one person per household is allowed to go out for essential supplies, or two people can leave the home to visit a hospital or clinic. Only the driver and one passenger can travel in a car at the same time, unless travelling to a hospital or clinic, in which case, there can be two passengers. Those who work in ‘essential private services’ are excluded from this order. Essential private services are defined by the government of Myanmar as banks, financial services, petrol stations, livestock and refrigeration industries, production and distribution of pharmaceutical products, production and distribution of drinking water and personal items. A curfew from 8pm until 4am each day is currently in effect in Yangon and other cities across Myanmar.
Other parts of Myanmar are also under ‘Stay at Home’ orders. You should confirm with the local ward administrator if you are unsure whether an area is subject to a ‘Stay at Home’ order. Anyone wishing to travel to or from an area subject to a ‘Stay at Home’ order may need to contact the relevant local authorities to confirm the requirements for travel.
This guidance from the government of Myanmar is subject to change, and you should check the information issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on their website and on their Facebook page before you travel inside Myanmar. Further information is also available on the Facebook page for the Ministry of Health and Sports and at their website. If you are outside of Myanmar, you should refer to your nearest Myanmar Embassy.
Since 13 May 2020 it has been compulsory for anyone going out in public in Myanmar to wear a facemask. Failure to wear one will result in a fine. This requirement is being enforced strictly and has led to the arrest of some offenders.
It is recommended that foreigners carry:
passport
Form C (immigration document)
Foreigner’s Registration Certificate
Myanmar Driver’s Licence (if you own a car)
a copy of your passport information page
a copy of your Myanmar visa
a copy of your immigration stamp showing when you last entered Myanmar.
Accommodation
There have been reports that some local authorities are carrying out checks to make sure all foreign visitors are staying in registered hotels and guest houses, not in private apartments. This is a requirement under Myanmar law and is a condition of your visa.
Some hotels have reopened but many tourist resorts remain closed.
Public places and services
Some restaurants, bars and shops have reopened with temperature checks and social distancing measures in place. Some shopping centres may need customers to register their details upon entry. You must wear a face mask in all public places, and a face shield might be required in some locations.
The government of Myanmar ordered all schools, including private ones, to close from 26 August. The date for re-opening has not yet been announced.
Myanmar visa extensions / renewals and UK passport / UK visa applications
The Visa Application Centre (VAC) which closed on 1 February, will now open once a week every Thursday starting 6 May, from 9:30am - 2:30pm for both Passport and Visa Services. Applications for UK passports and UK visas are normally processed on Gov.UK with papers submitted at the VFS office at the Hledan Centre in Yangon. The VAC will start responding to emails from HMPO (British passport) customers from 29 April to enable them to start submitting their passport applications from 6 May. The VAC also intends to hand over any already processed passports from 6 May.
The Embassy will no longer respond to urgent enquiries about UK passport applications, including first time applications for children. For all enquiries please visit gov.uk/overseas-passports. For those nationals looking to travel to the UK and who require a visa to enter the UK, visit VSF Global. The Embassy will no longer respond to enquiries regarding family visas.
For British nationals with expired visit visas, when you leave Myanmar you will need to pay an overstay fine of US$3 per day for the first 90 days and US$5 per day thereafter. This is payable in US dollars cash at the Immigration desk at Yangon Airport. Make sure you have the full amount in cash on arrival at the airport. There are no facilities for changing currency at the airport.
Tourist visa applications are currently suspended.
Healthcare
If you’re currently in Myanmar and are displaying symptoms of coronavirus, you should consult your healthcare provider. You may then be asked to notify the Myanmar National Hotline for Coronavirus (+95 67 3420268) and be transferred to a public health facility for testing.
If you test positive for the virus, you’re highly likely to be transferred to a government quarantine hospital until you have recovered. Patients are obliged to use a government facility even if they have private insurance. Patients in government hospitals are expected to make their own arrangements for bringing in food and other essential supplies. Lone travellers will not be allowed out of isolation to buy food or make phone calls.
The coronavirus pandemic is expected to put significant pressure on Myanmar’s medical facilities. They may not be able to offer routine care.
It may be difficult for you to travel to a neighbouring country for medical attention. You should check your personal arrangements with your healthcare provider.
Prescriptions from the UK are not accepted in Myanmar. Most hospitals, both government and private, have their own pharmacies. A government hospital will provide a prescription for collection at their pharmacy once a patient has been assessed. To attend a private hospital or clinic you must first register, following an assessment any prescription can be collected at the pharmacy on their premises. Pre-COVID, specific foreign medicines unavailable in Myanmar, could be ordered from Bangkok but suppliers are currently unable to transport these medicines due to COVID restrictions. Medication is sourced locally with supplies from India and Europe. It is therefore recommended that anyone on regular medication brings sufficient supplies with them or is able to have their medication couriered from the UK.
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Myanmar.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Myanmar
Information about the vaccine programme in Myanmar is currently quite limited, and the wider political and security situation may affect any planned rollout. As more information becomes clear, this page will be updated.
The Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) is the UK authority responsible for assessing the safety, quality and efficacy of vaccines. It has authorised the Pfizer/BioNTech, Oxford/AstraZeneca and Moderna vaccines for temporary supply and use in the UK. Find out more about MHRA approval for these vaccines.
British nationals living overseas should seek medical advice from their local healthcare provider in the country where they reside. Information about vaccines used in other national programmes, including regulatory status, should be available from the local authorities. This list of Stringent Regulatory Authorities recognised by the World Health Organisation may also be a useful source of additional information. Find out more information about the COVID-19 vaccines on the World Health Organization COVID-19 vaccines page.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
Further information
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
