This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Myanmar set and enforce entry rules. For further information contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to. You should also consider checking with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Entry rules in response to coronavirus
Entry to Myanmar
New tourist visa applications are currently suspended.
If you are travelling to Myanmar for work, read the guidance on visas and permits as the rules have changed since 1 January 2021.
Business e-visas
Applications for business e-visas have now re-started. Applicants need to be sponsored by a registered Myanmar company or a registered Chamber of Commerce Association.
Proof of invitation must be submitted with the visa application in the form of a letter personally addressed to the applicant, along with a copy of the company registration certificate. The letter must state the purpose and timeframe of the visit. The registration status of a company can be found online at Myanmar Companies Online (MyCo). NGOs and INGOs are not eligible to sponsor visas.
Business travellers must be fully vaccinated (see below) and present a negative PCR test taken within 72 hours of arrival in Myanmar, or can present proof that they have recovered from COVID-19. Business arrivals will need to submit a health declaration form, and purchase a Travel Accident Insurance Policy with COVID 19 from Myanma Insurance. Business visitors who display symptoms or test positive during their visit will be isolated and taken to a hospital or hotel designated by the Ministry of Health at their own expense. All business travellers are subject to initial hotel quarantine and undergo a PCR test at their own expense, usually issued within 24 hours of arrival, after which they are free to go.
These arrangements are subject to change at short notice.
In addition to the visa requirements, the Myanmar government requires a separate COVID entry permit for all visitors, which needs to be submitted through the visa sponsor in liaison with the relevant Ministry. This is then agreed by the Cabinet and processed via the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, who confirm it with the relevant Embassy, who in turn approve the relief flights. Your visa sponsor will be able to liaise with the authorities to obtain the relevant permissions.
Testing/Screening on arrival
Arrivals to Myanmar must complete and submit a health declaration when they arrive.
Arrivals must also provide evidence of a negative COVID-19 PCR test result. The test should be issued no more than 72 hours prior to the date of departure from the origin airport. You should not use the NHS testing service to get a test in order to facilitate your travel to another country. You should arrange to take a private test. Testing requirements ahead of entry to Myanmar are subject to change. Confirmation should be sought from the relevant Myanmar Embassy or Consulate well in advance of your departure.
Thermal screenings will be carried out on all arrivals by health officials at the airport. Arrivals found to have symptoms of COVID-19 during a screening will be immediately isolated and taken to a medical facility.
Quarantine requirements
Foreign nationals are required to go into hotel quarantine on arrival. During their hotel quarantine they will be tested multiple times, for which they will be charged. The exact timings and number of tests will depend on their vaccine or recovery status (5 days for vaccinated, 7 days for unvaccinated). These rules change frequently and often at short notice. Those planning to go to Myanmar should contact their nearest Myanmar embassy for details before departure.
Proof of the following vaccinations is accepted:
CoronaVac (Sinovac Biotech Ltd)
AstraZeneca or Covishield (AstraZeneca & University of Oxford/ SK BioScience (Korea) / Siam BioScience / Serum Institute of India (SII))
Pfizer – BioNTech COVID-19 Vaccine or Comirnaty (Pfizer Inc & BioNTech)
Janssen or Johnson & Johnson (Janssen Pharmaceuticals Companies of Johnson and Johnson
Modema (ModemaTX, Inc)
Sinopharm or COVILO or BIBP-CorV (Beijing Institute of Biological Products Co.Ltd)
Sputnik V (Gam-COVID-Vac) (Gamaleya National Research Centre of Epidemiology and Microbiology) • Covaxin by Bharat Biotech
Travellers will need to prove they have received their second vaccine dose at least 14 days prior to arrival, and present their vaccination record as proof.
For those who are vaccinated, you will be tested for COVID-19 by RT-PCR on day 1and day 4 during the quarantine period, and will be required to pay for the testing fees. You will be released on day 5 pending the result of your test on day 4. If you test positive for COVID-19, you will be immediately isolated and taken to a medical facility. Foreign nationals will be expected to pay the medical costs and other costs related to isolation and treatment in designated health facilities.
Foreign nationals, who have not been fully vaccinated more than 14 days prior to departure, will be subject to a 7 day hotel quarantine on arrival in Myanmar, for which they will need to pay. You will be tested for COVID-19 by RT-PCR on day 1and day 6 during the quarantine period, and will be required to pay for the testing fees. You will be released on day 7 pending the result of your test on day 6. If you test positive for COVID-19, you will be immediately isolated and taken to a medical facility. Foreign nationals will be expected to pay the medical costs and other costs related to isolation and treatment in the designated health facilities.
For vaccinated travellers who can demonstrate proof that they have recovered from COVID within the last 90 days (but where COVID has not been detected in the previous 72 hours) the quarantine requirement is 3 days with a test on day 3, and checkout the same day if COVID-19 is not detected.
If hospitalised with coronavirus, patients are obliged to use a government facility even if they have private insurance. Patients in government hospitals are generally expected to make their own arrangements for bringing in food and other essential supplies. Lone travellers will not be allowed out of isolation to buy food or make phone calls.
Data collection
On arrival, passengers may be asked to fill in a paper form giving your name, contact details and address.
Regular entry requirements
Before travel, we advise that all visitors check with their nearest Myanmar Embassy or Consulate to confirm your current visa will allow you entry, or the criteria for obtaining or renewing a visa.
Visas
British nationals must apply for a visa to enter Myanmar. If you have any queries about visas or entry requirements you should check with your nearest Myanmar embassy.
Passport validity
Your passport should be valid for a minimum period of 6 months from the date of entry into Myanmar.
Yellow fever
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are not valid for entry into Myanmar. They are accepted for exit from Myanmar but a valid visa has to be added to the ETD once the document is issued. You will need a passport photo for Immigration. Please ensure you check with the relevant Embassy if you propose to transit through another country and also with your airline. A visa can take several days to issue and some countries may not allow them on an ETD.
