At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Medical treatment
Many pharmaceutical products for sale in Myanmar are believed to be counterfeit.
Competent medical advice and treatment may not be available outside Yangon and Mandalay, and any services provided will not be to the standard of those in the UK. You may require expensive medical evacuation costing up to tens of thousands of pounds. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation. Avoid intrusive examinations, including emergency dental work, due to irregular hygiene standards and the danger of infection, particularly by hepatitis B and C and HIV/AIDS. Psychological and psychiatric services are also limited.
Cash payment is often required prior to receiving medical treatment in Myanmar. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and/or repatriation. The UK Government can’t pay for medical expenses overseas.
The worldwide coronavirus outbreak is expected to put significant pressure on Myanmar’s medical facilities. They may not be able to offer routine care.
Coronavirus
There is an ongoing outbreak of coronavirus (COVID-19) around the world. Travel restrictions can be imposed at short notice. You should consider this before beginning your journey.
On 21 March, Myanmar will introduce restrictions for UK citizens entering the country. UK passport holders will be required to stay in a government quarantine centre for 14 days upon arrival, or asked to return home.
You should comply with screening measures that have been put in place. Many direct flights between Myanmar and other countries have been suspended or reduced. Yangon airport and mainland China have been suspended. Other regional flights have been reduced. Flights from other international airports (Mandalay and Naypyitaw) may also be affected. You should check with airlines for the latest information.
If you’re travelling to other countries in the region, even in transit, check the latest travel advice for these destinations.
If you are currently in Myanmar and are displaying symptoms of coronavirus you should consult your healthcare provider. You may then be asked to notify the Myanmar National Hotline for Coronavirus (+95 67 3420268) and then be transferred to a public health facility for testing. If you test positive for the virus, you are highly likely to be transferred to a Government quarantine hospital until you are recovered. Patients will be obliged to use a government facility even if they have private insurance. Patients in government hospitals are expected to make their own arrangements for bringing in food and other essential supplies. Lone travellers will not be allowed out of isolation to purchase food or make phone calls.
The worldwide coronavirus outbreak is expected to put significant pressure on Myanmar’s medical facilities. If you have suspected or confirmed coronavirus, it may difficult for you to travel to a neighbouring country for medical attention. You should check your personal arrangements with your healthcare provider.
Further advice on coronavirus is available from Public Health England and the Travel Health Pro website.
Health risks
Dengue fever is present in Myanmar, including in the regions of Yangon and Mandalay. You should take appropriate precautions to avoid being bitten by mosquitos.
UK health authorities have classified Myanmar as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For information and advice about the risks associated with Zika virus, visit the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
Cases of schistosomiasis, a parasitic infection, have been reported in Myanmar. There is no vaccine or medication to prevent schistosomiasis. You should avoid wading, swimming or bathing in freshwater. As the infection may cause no symptoms, all travellers who may have been exposed to schistosomiasis should have a medical assessment.
Chikungunya, a viral infection usually transmitted by the bite of mosquitos, is present in Myanmar.
Myanmar has faced challenges with outbreaks of Vaccine Derived Polio Viruses (VDPV), particularly in remote areas. All travellers should check the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) pages for specific advice on polio vaccinations
Air pollution
Air pollution can affect major urban areas. This may aggravate bronchial, sinus or asthma conditions. Children, the elderly and those with pre-existing medical conditions may be especially affected. You can check real time air quality data for Yangon on the World Air Quality Index website.
