Criminal justice
There is a risk of arbitrary detention and arrest, particularly for journalists and human rights activists. The criminal justice process followed in such cases falls below international standards. Myanmar does not recognise dual nationality.
If you’re arrested and convicted of a crime in Myanmar you can expect a long prison sentence. Conditions in detention are extremely poor. Pre-trial detention can also last many months.
The legal process in Myanmar is unpredictable, lacks transparency and is open to interference from powerful political and business interests. The investigation and trial process falls far below the standard expected in the UK. British nationals in Myanmar should be aware that there are limits to the assistance the British Embassy can offer to those with concerns about the fairness of their trial as we are unable to interfere in the legal processes of a host country.
Sexual abuse against children is a serious crime. The UK and Myanmar authorities are committed to combating travelling child sex offenders. Those who commit sex offences against children abroad can also be prosecuted in the UK.
Penalties for drug trafficking range from a minimum sentence of 15 years imprisonment and can include the death penalty.
Myanmar’s defamation laws give broad scope for individuals to bring potentially arbitrary charges which could result in criminal penalties, including a prison sentence. Foreigners have been subject to criminal investigations for acts such as posting a critical review of a hotel online.
Religious customs
Respect religious customs when visiting Buddhist religious sites. Shorts and sleeveless tops will cause offence. You should remove shoes and socks before entering a pagoda or monastery.
Under Myanmar law, insulting religion is a prosecutable offence. Insulting religion is a broad term, and can include any disrespectful depiction or image (including tattoos) of Buddha or other religious representation.
Photography and drones
Do not take photographs or videos of the police, any demonstrations, military installations or military personnel.
Importing unmanned aerial systems (drones) without prior government permission and flying them in sensitive areas such as government buildings, famous tourist sites, and religious buildings can result in criminal penalties, including jail time and the permanent confiscation of the drone. As it is rarely clear what constitutes a sensitive area, all recreational use of drones is inadvisable. If you wish to bring a drone to Myanmar, you’re strongly advised to seek official permission from the Myanmar authorities.
Endangered species
Myanmar is a party to the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species (CITES). Over 800 species of animals and plants are banned from international trade and a further 30,000 are strictly controlled by CITES and EU legislation. You should consider the restrictions on the export of endangered species under CITES when deciding whether to buy exotic souvenirs, including those made from turtles.
LGBT travellers
Homosexuality is illegal in Myanmar, although in practice these laws are not consistently enforced. These laws can carry punishments of up to life imprisonment and apply equally to men and women. There have been reports of police using threats of prosecution to extort bribes and allegations of arbitrary arrest and detention.
Public attitudes towards LGBT people can be mixed. Up until recently, there have been increasingly large Pride festivals and growing visibility of the LGBT community, including gay bars and clubs. Public displays of affection, whether heterosexual or LGBT are frowned upon in Myanmar’s culture.
See our information and advice page for the LGBT community before you travel.
