!
Warning
FCDO advises against all travel to parts of Myanmar (Burma).
!
Warning
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to parts of Myanmar (Burma).

This section has safety advice for the states and regions of Myanmar. It only covers areas where FCDO has specific advice. 
Myanmar has suffered from prolonged internal conflicts, involving a number of ethnic armed organisations and other armed groups across the country. Violence is severe and the situation is unpredictable. 
You should also read FCDO’s overall travel advice and safety and security advice. 
Myanmar states and regions with land borders 
The Myanmar authorities restrict travel to most border areas. There are active military operations involving the use of air strikes, artillery bombardments and ground troops. 
On the borders of Shan and Kayin states there are cyber scam centres operating, and other criminal activity particularly human and drugs trafficking. There is also illegal drug cultivation in rural areas of Shan State. 
FCDO advises against all travel to the following border areas: Kachin State, Chin State, Kayah State, Kayin State, Sagaing Region, Rakhine State, Shan State North and Tanintharyi Region (excluding Myeik township, and the archipelago and townships south of Tanintharyi township). 
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to the following border areas: Shan State South and East, Tanintharyi Region south of Tanintharyi township. 
Central States and Regions 
FCDO advises against all travel to Magway Region and the north of Mandalay Region and all but essential travel to the rest of Mandalay Region. The situation in central Myanmar is unstable due to ongoing conflict. There is a risk of being caught in crossfire, armed clashes or airstrikes and the situation may change quickly at short notice. 
Due to earthquake damage, following the earthquake on 28 March 2025, the FCDO advises against all but essential travel to Naypyitaw Region. The area continues to be affected by damaged infrastructure, including hospitals and roads. 
Southern States and Regions 
FCDO advises against all travel to Mon State and east of the Yangon-Mandalay Expressway in Bago Region in southern Myanmar. Also, the FCDO advises against all but essential travel to the rest of Bago Region and Ayeyarwady Region’s townships Kyangin, Myanaung, Ingapu, Lemyethna, Yegyi, Thabaung and Pathein along the border with Rakhine State. There is a risk of being caught in crossfire or airstrikes and the situation may change quickly at short notice. The military have deployed to the area and there is ongoing and evolving conflict with a number of ethnic armed organisations.   
Yangon Region 
While FCDO no longer advises against all but essential travel to Yangon Region, there is still a heightened risk. 
The security situation remains volatile and can change at short notice. If you are visiting Yangon Region, seek local advice, especially if travelling to the following townships: 
Shwe Pyithar 
Hlaing Tha Ya (West) 
Hlaing Tha Ya (East) 
North Okkalapa 
Dagon Myothit (North) 
Dagon Myothit (South) 
Dagon Myothit (Seikkan) 
Security incidents in Yangon city, like in the rest of Myanmar, continue primarily to target military locations and personnel affiliated to the military. Attacks may affect civilians and bystanders, including in areas regularly frequented by foreign nationals. This may include hotels, restaurants and accommodation complexes. Military installations, such as checkpoints, are also targets. 
A curfew is in place from 1am to 3am across Yangon city. 
If you encounter a threatening or intimidating situation, do not try to make your way through it. Turn around and move to safety.
