The Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) advises British nationals in Myanmar to leave the country by commercial means as soon as possible. This change in the level of advice follows a significant increase in the level of recent violence on 27 March.
The military have extended the suspension of normal commercial passenger flights until 31 May 2021. However, the airport is open and some ‘relief’ flights are available for those seeking to leave Myanmar. Most of these are commercially bookable.
See Flights (below). Land borders are also closed.
If you decide not to leave Myanmar as advised at this time, you should stay at home and stay safe. If you need to leave home for essential reasons, you should do so quickly, avoiding crowds. If you remain, you should see advice on staying in Myanmar during coronavirus.
Flights
There are limited options for British nationals looking to return to the UK.
The military have extended the suspension of normal commercial passenger flights until 31 May 2021. However, the airport is open and some ‘relief’ flights are available for those seeking to leave Myanmar. Most of these are commercially bookable. Advertised flights can be changed at short notice, so please check with your airline or travel agent before travelling to the airport.
Commercial flights are currently operating to only a few destinations. Singapore Airlines (SIA) flies to Singapore twice a week. Flights can be booked through the airline’s website.
MNA (Myanmar National Airlines) also flies to Singapore twice a week. Myanmar Airways International (MAI) are currently operating flights to Kuala Lumpur three times a week, to Bangkok once a week, and to Seoul once a week. Booking with MNA and MAI may need to be done in person and using cash, or via a travel agent. If you intend to continue your journey to the UK from any of these destinations, you should check transit times and arrangements with the airline.
MNA flies to Bangkok once a week. Other airlines periodically charter flights to Bangkok too. You should contact a travel agent to enquire about charters and their availability. You should also check with the Thai Embassy in Yangon for documentation required to enter Thailand.
There is an increased demand for seats on all flights leaving Yangon at this time. You should therefore attempt to book your departure as soon as possible. Flights are liable to change at short notice: some may be cancelled while other flight options may become available. You should keep in close touch with your travel agent or airline until the time of departure as the situation is so changeable.
All travellers should check with the embassies of respective transit countries for the latest transit, entry and Covid-19 testing requirements before making ticket purchases. You should note that Kuala Lumpur, Seoul and Singapore do not currently require a COVID negative test for transit.
You should ensure that you meet the baggage allowance restrictions for all your flights, as some travellers have found the allowance on the second leg to be lower than that of the first. If you exceed the allowance on any leg of your journey excess baggage charges will be applied, and will only be payable in US dollars.
Your journey home: before you leave Myanmar
You should be aware of current UK entry requirements. To enter the UK, you are required to:
Complete a passenger locator form; (We strongly recommend that you do this before going to the airport due to unpredictable WiFi connectivity at the airport. If you are completing your journey to the UK on the same airline that you used to leave Yangon, you will not be able to complete your locator form in transit because a reference number from Yangon is required).
Book a travel test package for arrival in UK. This costs £210. You must take a COVID-19 test on or before day 2 for variant surveillance and a test on or after day 8 to check that you do not have COVID-19. Use the booking portal to book your travel test package (this is administered by CTM); and
Provide proof of a negative coronavirus test.
You are normally required to show proof of a negative coronavirus test to your airline before being allowed to board.
However, as of 21 February, you do not need to take a test if you began your journey to the UK from Myanmar. The present situation in Myanmar means that it is not reasonable to seek to obtain a pre-departure coronavirus test in that country before departure to the UK. The guidance will be reviewed regularly. Sign up to get an email alert whenever this page is updated. Passengers travelling to the UK can request a letter from the British Embassy Yangon, outlining the UK position on pre-departure coronavirus tests. You should send full details of name, passport number and confirmed flight details to Yangon.Consular@fcdo.gov.uk with ‘Pre-departure Test Letter Request’ in the subject line.
If you do not have a valid British Passport, the British Embassy can issue emergency travel documents or emergency passports should you need to leave the country in the near future. You should call the Embassy for further assistance or contact Yangon.Consular@fcdo.gov.uk. More details can be found o the emergency travel document page.
The Visa Application Centre (VAC) which closed on 1 February, will now open once a week every Thursday starting 6 May, from 9:30am to 2:30pm for both Passport and Visa Services. For those nationals looking to travel to the UK and who require a visa to enter the UK visit VFS Global.
The Embassy will no longer respond to enquiries regarding family visas.
If you intend to bring a pet back to the UK from Myanmar, you should check the regulations carefully. Your pet will be required to spend four months in quarantine on arrival in the UK due to rabies controls. The only exception to this requirement would be if the pet has been vaccinated against rabies at least three months before travelling and has proof of a positive titre test.
See also section above on UK and Myanmar visas.
Your journey home: re-entering the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK. You:
need to provide your journey and contact details up to 48 hours before you’re due to arrive in the UK
are not allowed to leave the place you’re staying for the first 14 days you’re in the UK except in very limited situations (known as ‘self-isolating’) See also the list of people who are exempt from the border rules.
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) also provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
Help and support
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, see our financial assistance guidance.
