Political situation
Myanmar held parliamentary elections on 8 November 2015. The National League for Democracy (NLD), led by Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, won a majority of seats and formed a government in April 2016. Myanmar’s military retains 25% of seats in parliament as well as various other political offices. The next parliamentary elections are due in November 2020.
Myanmar has suffered from prolonged internal conflicts, involving a number of non-state armed groups from Myanmar’s border areas. The government signed a National Ceasefire Agreement with 8 (roughly half) of the armed groups in 2015 and with a further 2 in 2018. Many others have bilateral ceasefire agreements with the government. There is no formal ceasefire as yet in Kachin State. In northern Shan State, Kokang Self-Administered Zone is not under ceasefire. Even where there are ceasefires in place, the possibility of violent clashes remains in all border states including Shan, Rakhine, Chin, Kachin, Kayah, Karen/Kayin, and Mon.
The political situation remains unsettled outside the central areas. Restrictions on freedom of assembly, movement and the right to form trade unions remain in place following extremely narrow legislative reforms. Restrictions on freedom of speech, movement, religion, and political activity remain, and under current laws criticism of the government can result in imprisonment, detainment and deportation. Avoid all demonstrations and large gatherings.
In the past, there have been acts of politically motivated violence around public holidays like Armed Forces Day (27 March) and Martyrs Day (19 July). On other anniversaries, like the 8 August 1988 uprising against the government and the September 2007 protests, you can expect to see an increase in security forces in Yangon and elsewhere in Myanmar.
Crime
There are no officially issued accurate crime statistics. Anecdotal evidence suggests occasional instances of violent crime against foreigners. The most common crimes are non-violent crimes of opportunity (pickpocketing, theft of unattended possessions in public places or hotel rooms, bag snatching, gem/confidence scams). At night, it is recommended that visitors explore city sights in groups or with a partner. Thieves often attempt to distract a victim by asking questions, begging for money, selling items, or bumping/jostling. You should take extra care of your belongings and take sensible security precautions at all times.
Myanmar is still largely a cash-only society. Travellers, who are often required to carry large sums of local currency, should avoid displaying cash or other valuables in public. Beware of merchants offering to sell gems, gold, semi-precious stones. This could result in substantial loss of money and/or a violation of local laws. Do not purchase gems or minerals from an unlicensed source.
Local travel
The Ministry of Hotels, Tourism and Sport maintains a list of approved destinations. Tourists can visit Yangon, Mandalay, Bago and Irrawaddy regions without restrictions. Other destinations are subject to limitations (eg access by air or train but not by road). For more information, contact the Myanmar Ministry of Tourism.
Individuals with disabilities or access requirements should be prepared to face difficulties throughout Myanmar. Roads and pavements are often difficult to cross. Ramps and accessible facilities are rare.
Local travel - border areas
The Myanmar government restricts travel to most border areas. Be particularly vigilant and take extra care in border areas. Unmarked landmines also pose a threat in many border regions. There is ongoing military activity close to borders with Bangladesh, Thailand, Laos, India and China especially in Shan, Karen/Kayin, Mon and Kachin States. There are occasional clashes in Karen/Kayin State (Myawaddy and Kawkareik)) and Mon State (Kyaik Mayaw). You should seek advice from guides or tour operators before travelling.
There are a limited number of legal crossing points, but these could close without notice:
Tachilek (Myanmar Shan State) - Mae Sai (northern Thailand border)
KawThoung (Myanmar Tanintharyi) - Ranong-Kawthoung (southern Thailand border)
Muse (Myanmar Shan State) - Ruili (China border)
Tamu (Myanmar Chin State) - Morei (India border)
Myawaddy (Myanmar Karen/Kayin State) - Mae Sot (western Thailand border).
Don’t attempt to cross any border illegally or enter restricted areas without the appropriate permissions from the Myanmar authorities. Even after getting permission, you may experience difficulties with the local authorities.
Local travel - Rakhine State
The FCO advise against all but essential travel to Rakhine State except the southern townships (administrative areas similar to a borough or county) of Kyaukpyu, Ramree, Munaung, Toungup, Thandwe (including the tourist resort of Ngapali) and Gwa.
Since serious civil unrest in 2012 there have been regular outbreaks of armed conflict between different ethnic groups and the Myanmar military, particularly in northern Rakhine. Conflict between the Arakan Army (AA) and the Myanmar military continues in northern Rakhine in the townships of Buthiduang, Kyauktaw, Rathaedaung and Ponnagyun, and has spread to the tourist destination of Mrauk U and surrounding villages.
Current outbreaks of violence are affecting both north and central Rakhine, including the large towns of Mrauk U and the state capital Sittwe, as well as the roads in and out of Sittwe. There have been several instances of kidnappings. On 11 October 2019 31 people, including 12 civilians, were kidnapped from a Mandalay to Sittwe bus near Mrauk U Township. On 5 November 2019, a number of civilians (including foreign nationals) were abducted between Paletwa town in Chin State and Kyauktaw town in Rakhine State, one of whom died of health complications while in custody. Both instances have taken place on public highways. On the 26 October, a civilian passenger ferry was captured travelling between Sittwe and Buthidaung. Civilian casualties were reported during the attempts to reach those taken hostage.
Military bases, vessels and their surrounding areas are frequently targeted. On 13 November 2019, a Myanmar military battalion was attacked with remote-detonated mines near Thayetpin village beside the Yangon-Sittwe road. Mobile communications in northern and central Rakhine State have been subject to shutdowns, and cannot be relied upon.
Local travel - Kachin State
The FCO advise against all but essential travel to Kachin State (except the towns of Myitkyina, Bhamo and Putao) due to a continued risk of armed conflict there.
If you’re travelling to Myitkyina, Bhamo and Putao, you should monitor local developments and keep in close contact with your tour operator in case the security situation there changes.
The railway track between Mandalay and Myitkyina has been a target, most recently in May 2018. The Myanmar authorities are currently restricting travel between Myitkyina and Bhamo: travel to and between these two towns is permitted by air only.
Local travel - Shan State
The FCO advise against all but essential travel to northern Shan State. There has been conflict in northern Shan State between different ethnic armed groups and the Myanmar military for many years, and the situation remains volatile.
On 26 November 2019 a foreign tourist was killed by a landmine while travelling off the main road in Northern Shan State in the area around Hsipaw town. A woman accompanying him was also injured in the incident.
On 16 November 2019, Lashio airport and Lashio’s No. 9 district were subject to rocket attacks. There were reports of rockets landing in civilian areas, causing damage to property and one casualty. The situation in northern Shan State remains unpredictable and the highest caution must be exercised.
On 15 August 2019 there were a series of coordinated attacks at a number of locations, including Pyin Oo Lwin in Mandalay Region, around 65km by road from Mandalay City, and Naung Cho (also spelled Nawnghkio) in northern Shan State. There were reports of a number of casualties, including civilians. The situation in northern Shan State remains volatile.
You’re advised to be vigilant in Taunggyi following the discovery of an explosive device in November 2018.
Local travel – Chin State
The FCO advise against all but essential travel to Paletwa township in southern Chin state due to active armed conflict there. If you plan to visit Mount Victoria in Mindat township you should seek advice from tour operators or guides before travelling.
On 5 November, a number of civilians (including foreign nationals) were abducted between Paletwa town in Chin State and Kyauktaw town in Rakhine State.
Air travel
The FCO can’t offer advice on the safety of individual airlines. However, the International Air Transport Association publishes a list of registered airlines that have been audited and found to meet a number of operational safety standards and recommended practices. This list is not exhaustive and the absence of an airline from this list doesn’t necessarily mean that it’s unsafe. A list of recent incidents and accidents is available on the website of the Aviation Safety Network.
Airlines routinely share flight codes, meaning that airlines sometimes use aircraft from outside their own fleet. Passengers aren’t always advised in advance where this is the case.
Local flight schedules are subject to change without warning. Leave sufficient time in your travel itinerary to accommodate this.
Rail travel
Railway safety standards are significantly below those in the UK.
Road travel
Overland travel can be hazardous, particularly in the rainy season (May to October). Roads can become impassable and bridges damaged. Travel by road between many areas outside the key destinations of Yangon, Mandalay, Bago and Irrawaddy regions is restricted. Check with your tour operator or the Ministry of Hotels, Tourism and Sport before travelling.
Road safety standards are significantly lower than in the UK. Under Myanmar law, the driver of a car involved in an accident with a pedestrian is always at fault. Many vehicles, including taxis and buses, are in a poor mechanical state, and serious road traffic accidents are common. Although driving is on the right in Myanmar, the majority of cars are right hand drive.
You should avoid travel where possible on the main Mandalay-Naypyitaw-Yangon road at night, due to bad lighting and poor road surfacing.
Sea and river travel
Seek local advice about where it is safe to swim or dive in the sea. River transport may not meet internationally recognised safety standards and search and rescue facilities may be limited.
During the monsoon season (normally May to October), heavy rains can cause flooding. Make sure life jackets are available and check local weather conditions before undertaking any river journey. All travellers should avoid wading, swimming or bathing in freshwater to prevent catching schistosomiasis. See Health
Swimming and scuba diving
Exercise caution at beach resorts in Ngwe Saung, Chaung Tha and Ngapali as there are strong underwater currents and riptides. There are no lifeguards and drownings have occurred.
If you’re considering diving excursions in Myanmar, make sure you are happy with the safety measures in place. Rented diving equipment may not meet internationally acceptable safety standards and may not be maintained adequately.
Mobile phones and Internet
Myanmar’s technological infrastructure is improving rapidly and foreign visitors and residents can expect to see significant change in the near future.
International GSM roaming is now available in Myanmar and all local networks offer 3G and 4G. If roaming is enabled, some UK SIM cards will work and coverage is fairly reliable in the main cities. UK mobile service providers may charge especially high prices for roaming in Myanmar.
Many visitors travel with a spare mobile phone and buy a SIM card when they arrive (approximately 1500 Kyat – about £1). This can then be topped up as needed.
