This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Myanmar as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Myanmar to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Registering with the British Embassy
If you are still in Myanmar and wish to leave or have your details recorded, e-mail ReturnFromMyanmar@fco.gov.uk with the following details:
name
email address
phone number
a copy of your passport biodata page
Moving around in Myanmar
In some areas there may be local requirements for visitors from other parts of the country to quarantine or self-isolate for 28 days on arrival.
Additional movement restrictions are in place in two Yangon townships: Mayangone and Insein. All residents in these areas must stay at home but can leave the house for work. Cars are only allowed in these townships if these belong to residents. Only two people are allowed in a car.
Since 13 May it has been compulsory for anyone going out in public to wear a facemask. Failure to wear one will result in a fine of MMK 5000. This requirement is being enforced strictly and has led to the arrest of offenders in some districts of Yangon.
It is recommended that foreigners carry:
passport
Form C (immigration document)
Foreigner’s Registration Certificate
Myanmar Driver’s Licence (if you own a car)
a copy of your passport information page
a copy of your Myanmar visa
a copy of your immigration stamp showing when you last entered Myanmar.
Restaurants and bars are slowly reopening with social distancing measures in place.
Accommodation
There have been reports that some local authorities are carrying out checks to make sure all foreign tourists are staying in registered hotels and guest houses, not in private apartments. If you are on a tourist visa and are not currently staying in a registered hotel or guest house, you should move into one now. This is a requirement under Myanmar law and is a condition of your visa.
Some tourist resorts have been ordered to close.
Myanmar visa extensions / renewals and UK passport / UK visa applications
For those with tourist/social visit visas the Myanmar government has agreed that overstays will be permitted with no legal penalty. You will be required to pay an overstay fee of US $3 per day of overstay when you leave Myanmar. This is payable in cash to the Immigration Department at Yangon Airport. We are awaiting the Myanmar government’s response to a diplomatic request for these fees to be waived in light of the lack of flight availability and will update this advice if this is agreed.
Under normal circumstances the British Embassy has no involvement in Myanmar visa matters for visiting or resident British Nationals.
However, at present we are able to consider support (but not sponsorship) for extension in country of resident/business visas on a case by case basis. If you wish to be considered for this please write to ReturnfromMyanmar@fco.gov.uk. You will need to attach a copy of your passport biodata page and existing visa.
British Nationals usually resident in Myanmar but currently away with expired business visas should apply for a single entry business visa at your nearest Myanmar Embassy (with a sponsorship letter from your employer). You should then apply for a long term multi-entry visa in Myanmar when you return.
New tourist visa applications are currently suspended.
Applications for UK passports are normally processed on Gov.uk with papers submitted at the VFS office at the Prime Hill Business Centre in Yangon. Unfortunately due to the lockdown regulations new applications cannot be received until further notice. However, from 1 June, papers to support passport renewal applications will be accepted at the VFS offices in Bangkok and Kuala Lumpur. For emergency travel British nationals can apply for an Emergency Travel Document (ETD) via Gov.uk.
Applications in Yangon for UK visas cannot be accepted at this time but can be made at the VFS office in Bangkok.
Health
If you are currently in Myanmar and are displaying symptoms of coronavirus, you should consult your healthcare provider. You may then be asked to notify the Myanmar National Hotline for Coronavirus (+95 67 3420268) and be transferred to a public health facility for testing.
If you test positive for the virus, you are highly likely to be transferred to a Government quarantine hospital until you have recovered. Patients are obliged to use a government facility even if they have private insurance. Patients in government hospitals are expected to make their own arrangements for bringing in food and other essential supplies. Lone travellers will not be allowed out of isolation to purchase food or make phone calls.
The coronavirus pandemic is expected to put significant pressure on Myanmar’s medical facilities. They may not be able to offer routine care.
It may be difficult for you to travel to a neighbouring country for medical attention. You should check your personal arrangements with your healthcare provider.
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Myanmar.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Myanmar, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
