!
Warning
FCDO advises against all travel to parts of Myanmar (Burma).
!
Warning
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to parts of Myanmar (Burma).

Your travel insurance could be invalidated if you travel against advice from the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO).
Areas where FCDO advises against travel
FCDO advises against all travel to:
Chin State
Kachin State
Kayah State
Kayin Sate
Mon State
Rakhine State
Sagaing and Magway regions
Tanintharyi Region, excluding Myeik township, and the archipelago and townships south of Tanintharyi township
Shan State North
North Mandalay Region; the townships north of Mandalay City and Pyin Oo Lwin
East of the Yangon-Mandalay Expressway in Bago region
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to:
Naypyitaw Region
Shan State South and East
Mandalay Region
Tanintharyi Region south of Tanintharyi township
the rest of Bago region
the townships of Kyangin, Myanaung, Ingapu, Lemyethna, Yegyi, Thabaung and Pathein in Ayeyarwady region
The conflict is Myanmar is increasingly volatile. The security situation may deteriorate at short notice and the military regime can introduce travel restrictions at any time. Consider your travel plans carefully.
Find out more about why FCDO advises against travel.
Earthquake in Myanmar
On 28 March, a 7.7 magnitude earthquake hit Myanmar and neighbouring areas. Naypyitaw, Sagaing region, and Mandalay region continue to be affected, but especially the epicentre near Mandalay City, Mandalay region. There is heavy damage to infrastructure.
Mandalay and Naypyitaw airports are now operating as usual.
If you are within these regions, there may be several strong after-shocks. Follow the advice of local authorities and monitor local media.
British nationals in Myanmar who require consular assistance can call British Embassy Yangon on +95 (01) 370 863/4/5/7.
If you’re in the area, follow the advice of the local authorities and monitor local media.
See the US Federal Emergency Management Agency advice about what to do before, during and after an earthquake.
UNICEF also have information on staying safe in an earthquake:
in English
in Burmese
Before you travel
No travel can be guaranteed safe. Read all the advice in this guide. You may also find it helpful to: 
see general advice for women travellers
read our guide on disability and travel abroad
see general advice for LGBT+ travellers
read about safety for solo and independent travel
see advice on volunteering and adventure travel abroad
Travel insurance
If you choose to travel, research your destinations and get appropriate travel insurance. Insurance should cover your itinerary, planned activities and expenses in an emergency.
About FCDO travel advice
FCDO provides advice about risks of travel to help you make informed decisions. Find out more about FCDO travel advice.
Get travel advice updates
Sign up to get email notifications when this travel advice is updated.
Follow FCDO:   
travel advice on X
travel advice on Facebook
Travel Aware on Instagram
