Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Hungary on the TravelHealthPro website.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Hungary.
Returning to the UK
Travelling from and returning to the UK
Check what you must do to travel abroad and return to England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
If you plan to pass through another country to return to the UK, check the travel advice for the country you’re transiting. If you will pass through a red list country, book your hotel quarantine package before travelling to the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements. You should contact local authorities for information on testing facilities. A list of COVID-19 testing sites is outlined on the Hungarian National Centre for Public Health website (only available in Hungarian).
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Hungary
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Hungary to limit the spread of COVID-19.
From 7 March it is not compulsory to wear a face mask in indoor public spaces or on public transport. Wearing a face mask remains mandatory in hospitals and social institutions.
Social distancing rules are currently not in force.
Family and private gatherings are allowed up to 100 people, weddings may take place with up to 400 people, and there are currently no limits for attending funerals. Visits to hospitals are not allowed. Visits to social care facilities are allowed, but it is mandatory to wear face masks. Please check with the hospital for specific restrictions before visiting.
The full details are set out on the Hungarian government website.
Hungary will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 vaccination record. If you are travelling with a printed PDF proof of vaccination status, it must date from 1 November to ensure that the certificate can be scanned successfully, if domestic certification is required. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
Tested Positive
If you test positive for coronavirus during your stay in Hungary, you must self-isolate at your accommodation. You can leave your self-isolation when all of the following three conditions are met:
you have had no fever for 3 days;
your respiratory symptoms have ceased; and
10 days have passed from the start of your on-set of symptoms or the date of your positive PCR test, whichever was earliest
You cannot leave your accommodation and you cannot have guests during your period of self-isolation. You can order groceries, food and medicine online and have it delivered to your home. In a medical emergency, you should call 112.
Resident permits
UK nationals living in Hungary should note that the National Directorate General for Aliens Policing has introduced changes in in-person appointments to help reduce the spread of the virus.
If you are a UK national residing in Hungary for over three months, and trying to register your stay, you should visit the webpage of the National Directorate General for Aliens Policing for guidance on how to do this.
Healthcare in Hungary
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Hungary.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Hungary
We will update this page when the Government of Hungary announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Hungary national vaccination programme started in December 2020 and is using the AstraZeneca, Pfizer-BioNTech, Moderna, Janssen (Johnson and Johnson), Sinopharm and Sputnik V vaccines. The Government of Hungary has stated that British nationals resident in Hungary are eligible for vaccination if they choose to join the programme, including those unable to register for a TAJ number.
The Hungarian authorities have asked people to register their interest in receiving a vaccine on the National Health Insurance Fund of Hungary (NEAK) website (in Hungarian only). Once registered, the authorities will invite people for vaccination based on the order of priority determined by the national vaccination programme. You may check if your registration for the vaccine has been successful.
Those who have tested positive for coronavirus over the past 3 months can now also receive their first dose.
As of 1 August, if you are over 18 and have received both the first and second doses of your C-19 vaccination in Hungary, you are eligible for a third (booster) dose. The third dose should come at least four months after the second one. You can book your third dose online. Booking is currently available only for those who have a Hungarian health insurance (TAJ) number.
Vaccinated persons and those who have previously contracted the COVID-19 virus are eligible for a Hungarian Immunity Certificate.
If you have received your vaccination in Hungary but have not received your immunity certificate, you should check on the status of your certificate with your local government office (Kormanyablak) either in person or online (Hungarian Government Services System (Ügyfélkapu) account required). If they say that there is not enough information in their database about your vaccination, then you should ask the doctor who arranged your vaccine to check if your details are correctly entered in the Hungarian Electronic Health Service System (EESZT) as a foreigner, along with an ID number issued by your government.
If you are a permanent resident in Hungary and received your vaccination abroad (in the UK) and you would like to receive a Hungarian immunity certificate, you should contact your local government office (Kormanyablak) either in person or online (Hungarian Government Services System (Ügyfélkapu) account required) to register your vaccination and apply for an immunity certificate.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad. If you’re a British national living in Hungary, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
If you receive your COVID-19 vaccination in Hungary, you can get an EU Digital COVID Certificate from the national authorities. The Certificate proves that you have been vaccinated against COVID-19, received a negative test result, or recovered from COVID-19. It will help facilitate your travel within the EU and, in some countries, you can use it to demonstrate your COVID-19 status to businesses and other organisations. For further information visit the European Commission’s EU Digital COVID Certificate page.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
Further advice and information is available from the Hungarian government website (in Hungarian and English). Call the Hungarian government’s dedicated coronavirus hotline on +36 80 277 455 or +36 80 277 456 if you believe you have symptoms and ask for an English speaking operator.
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
