This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Hungary set and enforce entry rules. For further information contact their embassy, high commission or consulate. You may also check with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and travel documents meet their requirements.
If you are travelling to Hungary for work, read the guidance on visas and permits as the rules have changed since 1 January 2021.
Entry rules in response to coronavirus (COVID-19)
Entry to Hungary
Due to the coronavirus pandemic there are some restrictions on entering Hungary.
However, you can enter Hungary by road, rail and waterway from all the countries neighbouring Hungary (Croatia, Austria, Romania, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia and Ukraine) without any epidemiological restrictions, regardless of your nationality and coronavirus immunity.
As of 29 October a negative COVID-19 PCR test for British nationals entering Hungary is no longer required if they have been fully vaccinated under the UK vaccination programme and 14 days have passed since the last dose of their COVID-19 vaccination.
Demonstrating your COVID-19 status
Hungary will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 vaccination record and proof of COVID-19 vaccination issued in the Crown Dependencies. Your final vaccine dose must have been administered at least 14 days prior to travel. If you are travelling with a printed PDF proof of vaccination status, it must date from 1 November 2021 to ensure that the certificate can be scanned successfully. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
The EU Covid certificate is also accepted for entry.
Children (under 18) may enter Hungary without certification and be exempt from any COVID-19-related measure if travelling under the supervision of an adult carrying the UK’s proof of COVID-19 vaccination record, or an EU Covid certificate.
British Nationals who are not fully vaccinated
For British Nationals who are not fully vaccinated, a negative PCR test conducted in the previous 72 hours of arrival is required for entry into Hungary. For the negative PCR test to be accepted, the document proving the PCR test result should be either in Hungarian or English and should contain the following data:
date;
type;
result of test; and
evidence of where the test was performed
You must also meet other general conditions for entry (e.g. a valid travel document).
Residents or family
UK nationals may enter Hungary if they hold a permanent residence permit or a permit allowing them to stay in Hungary for at least 90 days, and can present their documents to the authorities at the border. UK nationals travelling with a family member who is a Hungarian citizen or resident should also be allowed entry. If you do not possess a Hungary issued Immunity certificate, an EU certificate or cannot show evidence of full vaccination under the UK vaccination programme (in the form of the NHS COVID pass on the NHS App or in the printout form), or have a negative PCR test or meet one of the exemptions, you will be required to quarantine upon arrival.
Others
UK nationals may also enter Hungary without any epidemiological restrictions if they are travelling in the following circumstances:
arriving for the purpose of business or trade activity - see below
transiting through Hungary through travel corridors – see below
operating cargo transport
people able to prove credibly that have recovered from COVID-19 within 6 months of their travel
as part of a military convoy
people travelling on diplomatic or official passports
Business and trade activity
Foreign (including UK) nationals entering Hungary for business purposes, may enter the country without epidemiological restrictions.
You will need to show proof of an essential business requirement for entering Hungary, unless one of the following applies:
You are in possession of a Hungary issued Immunity Certificate
You have an EU Covid certificate
You have been vaccinated under the UK’s vaccination scheme and have proof of COVID-19 vaccination record on the NHS App (or if you are travelling with a printed PDF proof of vaccination status, it must date from 1 November)
If you do not meet one of the above criteria, you will need proof of an essential business requirement for entering Hungary, e.g. an official letter from your company that includes contact details for verification purposes, or an invitation to a business event. You can provide this on paper or electronically.
It is possible to transit Hungary without any epidemiological restrictions but you must provide proof that you are entering Hungary for the purposes of travelling directly to another destination outside Hungary; you must also explain the reason you are travelling and demonstrate that you are able to transit to your final destination, providing, for example, a hotel reservation or proof of address in another country, a travel ticket, or similar evidence.
Testing / screening on arrival
Unless in possession of a Hungary issued Immunity Certificate, or arriving on land from one of Hungary’s neighbouring countries , people entering Hungary will be subject to a temperature check on arrival.
People entering Hungary must agree to enter mandatory quarantine, usually at home, unless one of the following applies:
You are in possession a Hungary issued Immunity Certificate
You have an EU Covid certificate
You have been vaccinated under the UK’s vaccination scheme and have proof of COVID-19 vaccination record on the NHS App (or if you are travelling with a printed PDF proof of vaccination status, it must date from 1 November)
You have a negative PCR test
You are arriving by road, rail and waterway from one of Hungary’s neighbouring countries,
You meet one of the exemptions
If you are subject to mandatory quarantine, you must notify the authorities of the location. If you have a suitable device, you must download software for police to monitor your quarantine. If on-site checks cannot be carried out in any other way, those in quarantine must allow police to enter their home.
If you have no place of residence in Hungary and have no Hungary issued Immunity Certificate, you must enter quarantine at a government-designated location. Quarantine is legally enforced and a fine of around £375 equivalent is levied for breaking the rules.
It is possible to leave quarantine early following two negative COVID-19 tests within 5 days of each other but at least 48 hours apart. Tests are self-funded and your local environmental health office will need to give permission for you to leave quarantine for testing, and also to end quarantine early after showing evidence of two negative test results.
The price of coronavirus tests are capped at Ft 19,500. Having the test conducted at home may incur an additional charge. See the list of environmental health offices in Budapest (in Hungarian); you must contact the office covering your place of residence. There is no single registry of environmental health offices outside Budapest; you will need to carry out an internet search for your local ‘Népegészségügyi Osztály’.
The government’s website has a list of medical centres (in Hungarian) where testing is available. Some offer home testing for an additional fee.
Regular entry requirements
Visas
The rules for travelling or working in European countries changed on 1 January 2021:
you can travel to countries in the Schengen area for up to 90 days in any 180-day period without a visa. This applies if you travel as a tourist, to visit family or friends, to attend business meetings, cultural or sports events, or for short-term studies or training
if you are travelling to Hungary and other Schengen countries without a visa, make sure your whole visit is within the 90-day limit. Visits to Schengen countries within the previous 180 days before you travel count towards your 90 days
to stay longer, to work or study, for business travel or for other reasons, you will need to meet the Hungarian government’s entry requirements. Check with the Hungarian Embassy what type of visa and/or work permit you may need
if you stay in Hungary with a residence permit or long-stay visa, this does not count towards your 90-day visa-free limit
Any time you spent in Hungary or other Schengen countries before 1 January 2021 does not count towards your 90-day visa-free limit.
At Hungarian border control, you may need to queue in separate lanes from EU, EEA and Swiss citizens.
Check your passport is stamped if you enter or exit the Schengen area through Hungary as a visitor. Border guards will use passport stamps to check you’re complying with the 90-day visa-free limit for short stays in the Schengen area. If relevant entry or exit stamps are not in your passport, border guards will presume that you have overstayed your visa-free limit.
You can show evidence of when and where you entered or exited the Schengen area, and ask the border guards to add this date and location in your passport. Examples of acceptable evidence include boarding passes and tickets.
You may also need to:
show a return or onward ticket
show you have enough money for your stay
If you are resident in Hungary your passport should not be stamped. You should proactively show your proof of residence as well as your valid passport at Hungarian border control. For further information, see our Living in Hungary guide.
Passport validity
Check your passport is valid for travel before you book your trip, and renew your passport if you do not have enough time left on it.
Make sure your passport is:
valid for at least 3 months after the day you plan to leave Hungary, or any other Schengen country
less than 10 years old
The 3 months you need when leaving a country must be within 10 years of the passport issue date.
If you renewed your current passport before the previous one expired, extra months may have been added to its expiry date. Any extra months on your passport over 10 years may not count towards the minimum 3 months needed.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents are accepted for entry, airside transit and exit from Hungary.
Fines
Entry into Hungary can be barred if you have failed to pay a previous fine in Hungary. Contact the Hungarian Embassy in London for guidance on paying any outstanding fines before you next enter Hungary.
Customs regulations
Community regulations ensure the free movement of goods between EU member states. This means that no customs procedures are required for exporting goods from Hungary to another EU member state and/or for importing goods from a member state to Hungary. The export and import of goods purchased for non-commercial purposes (for personal use or as gifts) while travelling is not restricted, however, the transport of certain goods (such as: pets, hunting weapons, alcohol and tobacco products, medicines containing drugs, etc.) within the European Union is restricted or subject to special permissions.
Check the customs regulations before entering or leaving Hungary on the National Tax and Customs Administration of Hungary website.
