There remain commercial options to return to the UK from Hungary. If you live in the UK and are currently visiting Hungary, you’re strongly advised to return now by commercial means. Don’t run the risk of getting stranded.
UK special charter flights will only operate for priority countries where commercial flights are not possible. You should not assume that these flights will become available in countries where commercial routes are operating. Do not contact the contracted travel management company if no special charter flight is advertised here.
Countries neighbouring Hungary (Austria, Croatia, Romania, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia and Ukraine) have also introduced restrictions. Check country-specific FCO Travel Advice for details. Keep up to date with information from your tour operator, transport or accommodation provider on the impact on any existing travel plans. You should also check with your airline or travel company for the latest information.
Flights
Budapest Airport remains open. Airlines continue to operate between London and Budapest on a daily basis. WizzAir and Ryanair are both running one flight each per day in both directions.
WizzAir is also running two flights per week (Tuesday and Saturday) between Birmingham and Budapest and between Liverpool and Budapest.
WizzAir will restart flights between Budapest and Edinburgh on 2 June, flying three times a week, and between Budapest and Glasgow on 5 June, flying twice a week. Ryanair is scheduled to restart flights between Budapest and Doncaster / Sheffield and between Budapest and Manchester on 22 June, both flying twice a week. British Airways has suspended flights between the two countries until further notice.
This information is subject to change at short notice. You should check directly with the airline
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK.
For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Your journey home: re-entering the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK. You:
need to provide your journey and contact details up to 48 hours before you’re due to arrive in the UK
are not allowed to leave the place you’re staying for the first 14 days you’re in the UK except in very limited situations (known as ‘self-isolating’)
See also the list of people who are exempt from the border rules.
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) also provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
Help and support
Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British Embassy in Budapest on Twitter and Facebook.
If you cannot leave Hungary
If you cannot leave Hungary at this time, see advice on staying in Hungary during coronavirus.
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
