

There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.     
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Hungary
Terrorist attacks in Hungary cannot be ruled out.
Political situation
Political demonstrations can be held in Budapest and across Hungary. Rallies often take place on important national holidays, such as 15 March (anniversary of 1848 Revolution) and 23 October (anniversary of 1956 anti-Soviet Uprising). Peaceful demonstrations have sometimes turned violent. Move away from large crowds and monitor local media to help you avoid organised demonstrations.
Crime
Protecting yourself and your belongings
Tourists can be targets for petty crime. Bag-snatching and pickpocketing are common, especially in Budapest and other cities.
Street crime is more likely:
on busy public transport
in train stations
at markets
in places with high numbers of tourists
Leave your car or motorbike in a secure location if possible to reduce the risk of it being stolen. Theft from parked vehicles is common, so always put bags out of sight and do not store valuable items in your car.
Scams when paying bills
Some bars, clubs and restaurants might charge high amounts for food and drink. Tourists have been taken to cashpoints with demands for the money to pay the bill. Always ask to see the menu and price list before ordering food and check your bill carefully before paying. Be wary of establishments where menus do not properly display prices. Report any incidents to the police.
Some taxi drivers are part of these frauds. They may receive a commission to recommend certain bars, clubs and restaurants to passengers. If a taxi driver offers to take you to a bar or club, or you are approached on the street with an invitation, be cautious. Use taxis from a reputable local company.
Bank card fraud
Use official ATMs or banks. Do not change money on the street.     
Fraudsters can steal your card details without you noticing. Use ATMs inside banks if possible, and check ATMs on the street for signs of tampering. Keep cards in sight when paying in shops and restaurants. Read more about how to avoid bank card fraud.
Drink spiking
There have been reports of drinks being spiked, particularly in Budapest’s bars. If your drink is spiked it can make you vulnerable – for example to assault or robbery. Buy your own drinks and keep sight of them.
Laws and cultural differences
Personal ID
Always carry your passport. You must show ID if the police ask for it, and a copy is not acceptable.
Illegal drugs and prison sentences
Hungarian laws on the possession and use of drugs are very strict and carry serious penalties and prison sentences.
LGBT+ travellers
Same-sex sexual activity is legal in Hungary. Same-sex couples can enter into civil partnerships, but same-sex marriages are not legally recognised. Budapest is generally tolerant and open.
Recent Pride events have passed without incident, but historically there have been counter-events which have led to verbal, and sometimes physical, confrontation.
Outside of Budapest, showing affection in public may receive unwanted attention. Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Outdoor activities and adventure tourism
Festivals
If you are going to a summer music festival in Hungary, see FCDO’s travel checklist for festivals in Europe.
Transport risks
Public transport
On the Metro, you must validate your ticket at the entrance to the station. On buses, trams or trolley buses, you must validate your ticket immediately after boarding. Remember to:
keep your ticket until the end of your journey, as ticket inspectors can ask to see it at any time
validate a new ticket each time you change lines or mode of transport
get a special ticket for the night service network
You could get a fine if you do not follow the rules of the transport ticket system. See more information on ticket conditions from the Budapest Transport Authority.
Road travel
If you are planning to drive in Hungary, see information on driving abroad and check the rules of the road in the RAC’s Hungary guide. The guide lists driving regulations and other legal requirements you need to be aware of.
You can use a UK photocard driving licence to drive in Hungary. If you still have a paper driving licence, you may need to update it to a photocard licence or get the correct version of the international driving permit (IDP) as well.
Check if you need a UK sticker to drive your car outside the UK. 
Check the information about driving if you’re resident in Hungary.
Driving regulations
Hungary has a no-alcohol driving policy. It is illegal to drink any alcohol and then drive in Hungary.
You must use dipped headlights on roads outside towns even in daytime.
Roads that require an e-vignette (toll)
If you want to use major highways in Hungary, you must buy a motorway e-vignette in advance of your journey. The vignette is a form of electronic toll. If you use the roads without buying an e-vignette, you will get a fine.
Transporting humanitarian or medical aid
If you are planning to transit through Hungary with consignments of humanitarian aid or medical aid, contact the Hungarian Embassy in the UK in advance to apply for a waiver of normal haulage fees.
Rail travel
Take care when travelling by train and keep your belongings in sight. Take extra care on night trains. Never leave bags unattended. Travel with companions where possible and lock your compartment from the inside.
