This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Hungary as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Hungary to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Hungary
For information on entering Hungary, see Entry Requirements
Hungary has introduced rules to manage people’s social interaction with those outside their household. The police have powers to fine people breaking the rules.
People should wear a face covering (ie mask, scarf or shawl) in shops, restaurants, bars and similar indoor settings, and when using taxis or public transport.
Shops and service providers may open without restriction, but only over-65s may enter food shops, drug stores and pharmacies between 9am and 12pm each day. Restaurants, bars, hotels and guesthouses may also open and accept guests inside and outside. In all settings, the manager should provide conditions for customers to maintain a 1.5m distance from people outside their household.
Outdoor attractions may open, for example outdoor swimming pools and spas, zoos, playgrounds and outdoor museums.
Schools remain closed until 2 June. Higher education institutions may open with measures to maintain social distancing, but access to university dormitories is prohibited.
Religious ceremonies, civil marriages and funerals can be held with social distancing measures in place. Family events for up to 200 people can be held from 1 June outside Budapest, and from 15 June within Budapest. Otherwise, mass events are banned until at least 15 August.
Local authorities have some powers to introduce additional restrictions, so follow local instructions.
The full details are set out on the Hungarian government website
Resident permits
UK nationals living in Hungary should note that the National Directorate General for Aliens Policing has introduced changes in in-person appointments to help reduce the spread of the virus. Expiring resident permits from 11 March onwards will automatically remain valid during the state of emergency and for 45 days after the state of emergency terminates. A parliamentary vote to end the state of emergency is expected on 20 June.
If you are a UK national residing in Hungary for over three months, and trying to register your stay, you should visit the webpage of the National Directorate General for Aliens Policing for guidance on how to do this.
Health
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Hungary.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Hungary, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
Further advice and information is available from the Hungarian government website (in Hungarian and English). Call the Hungarian government’s dedicated coronavirus hotline on +36 80 277 455 or +36 80 277 456 if you believe you have symptoms and ask for an English speaking operator.
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
