Coronavirus: stay up to date
This page will be updated with country-specific information for travellers to Hungary. Sign up for email alerts.
See our coronavirus travel advice for guidance on travel during the COVID-19 pandemic, including on cruise ship travel.
The Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advise against all but essential travel to Hungary, due to the ongoing coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and in line with various controls and travel restrictions implemented by the Hungarian Government. British nationals in Hungary should follow the advice of the Hungarian authorities.
The Hungarian authorities have declared a state of emergency and introduced a number of measures in response to the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic.
The Hungarian Prime Minister announced on 16 March that Hungary would close all borders to foreigners at midnight on Monday 16 March. Only Hungarian citizens and EEA citizens (including UK nationals) holding a Permanent Residence Card will be allowed to enter the country. We are encouraging the Hungarian government to allow all British residents of Hungary to re-enter the country. We encourage all British Nationals to continue to monitor travel advice updates.
British travellers who wish to leave Hungary should make arrangements to do so as soon as possible, due to the rapidly changing circumstances and airport closures in neighbouring countries. Please note that Budapest airport remains open until further notice.
Further restrictions to daily life may be announced over the coming days and we are monitoring the situation. The situation may change rapidly, including in neighbouring countries, where some airports have closed or ceased direct flights to the UK. Countries neighbouring Hungary (Austria, Croatia, Romania, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia and Ukraine) have also introduced restrictions. Please check country-specific FCO Travel Advice for details.
Keep up to date with information from your tour operator, transport or accommodation provider on the impact on any existing travel plans. You should also check with your airline or travel company for the latest information. See Health
The rules on travel to EU countries will stay the same until 31 December 2020. This page will be updated with country-specific information for travellers to Hungary as things change. Sign up for email alerts and view the latest updates for UK nationals travelling to and living in Europe.
Around 700,000 British nationals visit Hungary each year.
If you’re living in or moving to Hungary, read the Living in Hungary guide in addition to this travel advice.
There are occasional political demonstrations in Budapest and elsewhere in the country. Some take place on or close to important national holidays with a political relevance, such as 15 March (anniversary of 1848 Revolution) and 23 October (anniversary of 1956 anti-Soviet Uprising). Peaceful political demonstrations have occasionally ended in violence. You should avoid all political demonstrations, monitor the media coverage of local events and be aware of your surroundings at all times.
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Hungary, attacks can’t be ruled out. See Terrorism
You should take out comprehensive travel and medical insurance before you travel. For information on the European Health Insurance Card see Health.
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.
The Overseas Business Risk service offers information and advice for British companies operating overseas on how to manage political, economic, and business security-related risks.
