Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Côte d’Ivoire on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
Commercial flights are now operating to and from Côte d’Ivoire on a limited number of routes. Check with your travel company for the latest information.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Côte d’Ivoire.
Returning to the UK
Travelling from and returning to the UK
Check what you must do to travel abroad and return to England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
If you plan to pass through another country to return to the UK, check the travel advice for the country you’re transiting.
You should contact local authorities for information on testing facilities (available in French only) or the national COVID website.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Côte d’Ivoire
Travel is open within Côte d’Ivoire. Land borders with neighbouring countries were closed in March 2020 and some remain officially closed – check before travel.
Accommodation
Most hotels and other accommodation are open. Everyone is required to wear face masks in public areas.
Public places and services
You need to wear face masks in public places. There are hand-washing facilities and/or antibacterial gel available before entering most public buildings and restaurants. Schools, restaurants, bars, nightclubs, cinemas and theatres are open. On 30 December 2021, the government announced that they would introduce antigen testing before entry to concerts and other large gatherings. Anyone testing positive will be obliged to take a PCR test at the nearest health centre.
Health
If you think you have been in contact with anyone with COVID-19 or you have symptoms yourself, you should self-isolate for 14 days.
COVID-19 testing is available at testing centres in Abidjan and around the country. PCR test results will take at least 24 hours but may take longer.
Unlike in the UK, you will need to go to a pharmacy to obtain most over-the-counter medicines as these are not generally available in supermarkets. Many items that would require a prescription in the UK do not require one in Côte d’Ivoire. For items that do require a prescription in Côte d’Ivoire, UK prescriptions will be accepted but the duty doctor at the pharmacy may need to authorise the purchase. Pharmacies are usually identified by a green cross outside and will display a list showing which pharmacies are on duty (‘de garde’) out of hours.
The Government of Côte d’Ivoire is encouraging those seeking any information or who have concerns about coronavirus to call these local free hotline numbers: 143 or 101.
For contact details for English speaking doctors, visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Côte d’Ivoire.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Testing positive for COVID-19 in Côte d’Ivoire
Government medical agents will be in contact if you test positive. Those who test positive are required to self-isolate at home for 14 days. If visitors do not have a home in which they can isolate themselves, there are dedicated COVID hotels available at your own cost.
Government medical agents may also organise visits to accommodation to ensure individuals are self-isolating.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Côte d’Ivoire
We will update this page when the Government of Côte D’Ivoire announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Côte d’Ivoire national vaccination programme started in March 2021 and is using the AstraZeneca, Pfizer, Sinopharm, and Johnson & Johnson vaccines. All over-18s resident in Côte d’Ivoire, including non-Ivorians, are eligible for vaccination. A list of vaccination sites is available on the government’s dedicated COVID website. The UK recognises Côte d’Ivoire’s vaccination certificates for the purposes of entering the UK as a “fully vaccinated” person.
If you’re a British national living in Côte D’Ivoire, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
The Government of Côte d’Ivoire is encouraging those with any information or concerns about coronavirus to call these local free hotline numbers: 119, 143 or 101.
