This page has information on travelling to Côte d’Ivoire. Check what you must do to return to the UK.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport from the UK, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Côte d’Ivoire set and enforce entry rules. You should also check the official Côte d’Ivoire government’s website before travel for the latest updates.
All travellers
You will need a visa to enter Côte d’Ivoire as a visitor. Anyone wishing to enter Côte d’Ivoire who does not already have a visa should make their visa application through the e-visa service online before travel . This is available in English. If you are not an ECOWAS national, you must hold a valid visa or have had your application for an e-visa approved for Côte d’Ivoire before you travel.
You will need to apply for the e-visa online several days before your date of travel to allow time for your application to be processed. Make sure you follow instructions on the website carefully to avoid any difficulties with airlines or immigration authorities. After registering and paying online, you will be able to collect your visa on arrival at Abidjan airport.
Before arriving in Côte d’Ivoire, you will need to complete the DDVA form prior to arrival at a cost of 2000 XOF, available online. You will need to print a hard copy of this form.
On arrival, you may be required to register your contact details before exiting the airport at the ‘Stop COVID-19’ facility.
Biometric in-person visa services at the Côte d’Ivoire Embassy in London are suspended due to COVID-19.
If you’re fully vaccinated
If you’re fully vaccinated, you can enter Côte d’Ivoire without needing to test or quarantine. You no longer need to show a negative PCR test as long as you can prove that you are fully vaccinated.
At least 14 days must have passed since your second dose of the vaccine.
COVID-19 control measures are subject to frequent review and may change at short notice. You should check the Côte d’Ivoire government’s official site for updates.
Departing Côte d’Ivoire
If you are departing Côte d’Ivoire you will need to complete a form declaring your departure. As of 7 March, if you’re fully vaccinated and travelling to a country which does not require a negative PCR test on arrival, you also do not need one to leave Côte d’Ivoire.
You can make your travel declaration and pay for your declaration online. You should do this three or four days before your trip. It currently costs 25 000 FCFA (2000 FCFA for children under 12). The declaration is compulsory for all passengers aged 3 and above. Children aged 12 and above will need to have a negative PCR test if they are not fully vaccinated. The website lists approved testing centres. You will receive a copy of your declaration form and your payment receipt by email.
Proof of vaccination status
You must present proof that you have been fully vaccinated to enter Côte d’Ivoire, if you do not have proof of a negative PCR test.
Côte d’Ivoire will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 vaccination record. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status. You should ensure you travel with your electronic UK vaccination certificate containing the QR code as you will be asked on arrival to show it. If possible, have a paper copy as well as an electronic copy.
If you’re not fully vaccinated
If you are not fully vaccinated, you will need to show proof of a negative PCR test (taken no more than 72 hours) before boarding your flight. See information on getting a test before entry.
You should not use the NHS testing service to get a test in order to facilitate your travel to another country. You should arrange to take a private test. You will also need to complete the DDVA form prior to arrival at a cost of 2000 XOF, available online.
You will need to hand in this form on arrival and comply with the medical monitoring system, which has been put in place by the authorities for anyone arriving in Côte d’Ivoire from another country. This includes providing temperature readings and registering your contact details.
As of January 2022, all inbound air travellers may be subject to additional measures to control the spread of COVID-19. For those who cannot prove that they are fully vaccinated, this includes mandatory antigen testing upon arrival at the airport. For those who are not fully vaccinated and undergo this further antigen testing on arrival at the airport, the government may monitor inbound travellers’ health status for five days by calling or texting their mobile phones. You may be monitored by SMS tracking for 14 days.
Departing Côte d’Ivoire
If you are departing Côte d’Ivoire you will need to complete a form declaring your departure. If you are not fully vaccinated, you will also need to have a negative PCR test before you depart. In this case you should: pay online for your COVID test; get tested within 72 hours of departure; and receive and download the proof of your negative test. You will need to show these documents on departure.
You can make your travel declaration and pay for your COVID-19 declaration and PCR test online. You should do this three or four days before your trip. It currently costs 25 000 FCFA (2000 FCFA for children under 12.) The declaration is compulsory for all passengers aged 3 and above. Children aged 12 and above will need to have a negative PCR test if they are not fully vaccinated. The website lists approved testing centres.
You will receive a copy of your declaration form and your payment receipt by email. Take a printed copy of these documents when you go to get your COVID-19 PCR test done. You have to take the PCR test within 72 hours of departure. You will get the test result within 48 hours. When the test is negative, the certificate is available online.
If you return a positive COVID-19 test, you will not be permitted to travel for a 14-day period and may be advised to self-isolate in your own accommodation for 14 days on arrival in Côte d’Ivoire.
Children and young people
Children aged 12 and above will need to have a negative PCR test to enter Côte d’Ivoire if they are not fully vaccinated.
If you’re transiting through Côte d’Ivoire
Transiting is when you pass through one country on the way to your final destination. You will not require a visa for any airside transit. There are currently no requirements for transiting through Côte d’Ivoire.
Exemptions
There are no exemptions to Côte d’Ivoire’s entry requirements.
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
Check with your travel provider to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Passport validity
If you are visiting Côte d’Ivoire, your passport should be valid for a minimum period of six months from the date you arrive into Côte d’Ivoire. Keep your passport safe, if criminals have possession of your passport, they may use your identity to commit crimes.
If you are a resident in Côte d’Ivoire, your passport must be valid for six months from the date you arrive.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are not valid for entry or transit through Côte d’Ivoire. However, ETDs are accepted for exit from Côte d’Ivoire.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
You will need to show a valid Yellow Fever vaccination certificate on arrival at the airport. Check requirements by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
Returning to the UK
If you’re departing Côte d’Ivoire you will need to complete a form declaring your departure. As of 7 March, if you’re fully vaccinated and travelling to a country which does not require a negative PCR test on arrival, you also do not need one to leave Côte d’Ivoire. See the ‘Departing Cote d’Ivoire’ section above.
Check what you must do to return to the UK.
