At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Coronavirus
Cases of coronavirus (COVID-19) have been confirmed in Côte d’Ivoire. The Côte d’Ivoire authorities have introduced a number of measures to limit the spread of the virus. The Ivorian authorities announced the suspension of all flights to and from countries with more than 100 cases of coronavirus from 19 March for an unspecified period. This includes all connections to Europe.
The Ivorian authorities are currently preventing individuals, except Ivoirian citizens and foreign nationals resident in Côte d’Ivoire, from entering Côte d’Ivoire if travelling from a country that has 100 cases of coronavirus, including the UK.
Abidjan Felix Houphouët-Boigny International Airport has heightened screening measures in place for all visitors arriving in Côte d’Ivoire, including a temperature check and the completion of a health declaration form which you are likely to be given after leaving the plane on arrival.
Returning Ivoirian nationals or foreign nationals resident in Cote d’Ivoire arriving from a country that has recorded at least 100 cases of coronavirus and who are suspected of having coronavirus will be required to spend 14 days in the government quarantine centreres. Those not displaying symptoms will be asked to self-isolate for 14 days.
The Government of Côte d’Ivoire is encouraging those with any information or concerns about coronavirus to call these local free hotline numbers: 143 or 101. You can also send a message to 1336 to receive information about coronavirus by text.
You should comply with any additional screening measures put in place by the authorities. Keep up to date with information from your tour operator, transport or accommodation provider on the impact on any existing travel plans.
We recommend you check what measures are in place again before you arrive in Cote d’Ivoire. If you need further information about entry requirements, contact the local immigration authorities or the nearest Côte d’Ivoire embassy. Some airlines have suspended international flights into Côte d’Ivoire or reduced the frequency of their flights. You should also check with your airline or travel company for the latest information.
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
You can find more information about cases in Côte d’Ivoire on the TravelHealthPro country page.
Medical treatment
Medical treatment of a reasonable standard is available in Abidjan, but it can be expensive, and emergency facilities are limited to a few major hospitals. Medical facilities outside the major towns are often rudimentary. Serious medical treatment would require medical evacuation to Europe. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation
Health risks
Malaria is endemic.
In September 2017, there was an outbreak of dengue fever in Côte D’Ivoire. You should follow the advice of the National Travel Health Network and Centre.
UK health authorities have classified Côte D’Ivoire as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For information and advice about the risks associated with Zika virus, visit the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 180 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you’re referred to a medical facility for treatment.
You should exercise normal precautions to avoid exposure to HIV/AIDS
