International flights to and from Côte d’Ivoire have been suspended until further notice, except for humanitarian and security purposes. Land borders are also closed.
There are currently no commercial options available to return to the UK from Côte d’Ivoire.
UK Special Flights
A special flight to the UK will depart from Felix Houphouet Boigny International Airport, Abidjan on 2 June.
The flight cost is £600 per person.
These flights are for:
British nationals, normally resident in the UK
dependants travelling with a British national
Vulnerable British nationals will be prioritised.
Vulnerable non-British UK residents with Indefinite Leave to Remain, and other foreign nationals, may be accommodated if there is sufficient capacity.
Your eligibility will be checked before your tickets are issued.
How to book
CTM is working on behalf of the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) to manage special flight bookings.
If you wish to travel, book on the CTM website as soon as possible.
The CTM registration portal will close on Saturday 30 May at 9am. If you want to travel on this flight, we encourage you to book via the portal as soon as possible.
To book flights on the CTM website, you will need:
full passport and contact details for each traveller
your UK home address and postcode
your means of payment, such as credit or debit card details
The booking website is only available to British nationals. If you have difficulty booking online, or if you are a vulnerable non-British UK resident with Indefinite Leave to Remain, or another foreign national, then you will need to contact us. To do so, send an SMS text message containing only your full name to +44 (0) 753 745 3868. Some international charges may apply.
A member of the CTM team will then be in touch.
Tickets will not be on sale at the airport. Do not travel to the airport without a confirmed ticket.
You may find it helpful to read our guide to eligibility and the booking process for special charter flights.
Financial support for a flight
If you have exhausted all other options available to you for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government to cover the cost of the ticket.
You would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK.
Our partner CTM is also authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO and details will be available when you are asked to pay.
Travel to the airport
Travel between Abidjan and the rest of the country is restricted. You will need a permit from the Ivoirian government. If you need help with this please contact british.embassy.abidjan@fco.gov.uk
If you are travelling to Abidjan International Airport for the special flight to the UK, Ivorian police may ask to see your ticket and passport in order to let you pass the checkpoints.
Your journey home
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
If you’re returning home before 8 June, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others. From 8 June there will be new rules for entering the UK.
Future options
We do not plan any further UK government special flights from Abidjan after 2 June. All British travellers wanting to return to the UK should apply for flight tickets using the process above.
The UK government is liaising closely with airlines and other governments to make sure commercial options for returning to the UK are available as soon as possible.
If you cannot leave Côte d’Ivoire
If you cannot leave Côte d’Ivoire at this time, see advice on staying in Côte d’Ivoire during coronavirus.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British Embassy Abidjan by phone on +225 22442669 or by email to British.Embassy.Abidjan@fco.gov.uk
The Embassy cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone. This page will be updated when departure options become available.
To get the latest information, sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British Embassy Abidjan on Twitter and Facebook
Further information
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
