!
Warning
FCDO advises against all travel to parts of Côte d'Ivoire.

This guide also has safety advice for regions of Côte d’Ivoire.
Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Côte d’Ivoire
Terrorist attacks in Côte d’Ivoire cannot be ruled out.
Attacks could be indiscriminate, including in places visited by foreign nationals such as:
beach resorts
hotels
cafés and restaurants
major sporting events
The main threat in Côte d’Ivoire is from Jama’at Nusrat al-Islam wal-Muslimin (JNIM) and other al-Qa’ida (AQ) affiliated groups, including al-Qa’ida in the Islamic Maghreb (AQIM). JNIM is mainly active in the northern border areas, including the Comoé National Park in the north-east, but attacks could occur anywhere, including major towns and cities such as Abidjan.
Stay aware of your surroundings, keep up to date with local media reports and follow the advice of the local authorities.
Political situation
Political demonstrations and other protests can occur. There were outbreaks of violence during the presidential elections in 2020, which caused civilian deaths. The next presidential elections are scheduled for October 2025. Crowds can gather quickly, and roadblocks are common. You should:
avoid crowds and demonstrations
follow local instructions and any additional security checks or measures
monitor local media
You should be alert near military barracks and military installations.
Personal security measures
If you’re staying for long in Côte d’Ivoire, you should seek professional security advice and regularly review personal security arrangements. You should keep a stock of food and water.
Internet outages
FCDO are aware of internet outages across West Africa, including Côte d’Ivoire. Services including airport, online payments, messaging services and online booking may be affected. Voice calls and SMS are broadly available.
Crime
There is a risk of violent crime in Abidjan, including armed break-ins to private residences and armed hold-ups in the street. Though not common, they do occur.
Street crime
To reduce your personal risk:
avoid walking over the bridges to and from the La Plateau areas of Abidjan – pedestrians have been robbed in daylight on these bridges
use taxi apps or pre-arranged private taxis
avoid using public transport after dark
make sure your accommodation has security measures in place
carry any valuables out of sight and do not wear expensive-looking jewellery or watches
do not walk after dark
take transport to use ATMs or to exchange money at the bank
To prevent card fraud, keep your bank card in sight when paying bills.
Vehicle crime
There have been attacks by armed robbers on private cars driving on the main roads between Yamoussoukro, Bouaké and Korhogo and in the west of the country. You could be at risk in daylight as well as at night. 
Keep your car doors locked, windows shut and all valuables out of sight while driving.
Laws and cultural differences
Personal ID
You must carry your passport. Carry the original as the police will not always accept copies. 
Dress code
Dress modestly when visiting religious places or buildings.
Illegal drugs and prison sentences
Drug trafficking and possession are illegal. If you’re found guilty, you could receive a long prison sentence or a heavy fine.
Using cameras in secure areas
It is prohibited to take photographs near sensitive installations, including:
military sites
government buildings
radio and TV stations
the Presidency building
Abidjan Airport
de Gaulle and Houphouet-Boigny bridges in Abidjan
LGBT+ travellers
Same-sex sexual activity is not illegal in Côte d’Ivoire, but the law does not recognise same-sex partnerships or marriage. Attitudes are less tolerant and there is no specific anti-discrimination law to protect LGBT+ people.
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Transport risks
Road travel
If you are planning to drive in Côte d’Ivoire, see information on driving abroad.
You must have the 1968 version of the international driving permit (IDP) or a local driving licence. You cannot buy an IDP outside the UK, so get one before you travel.
In case the police stop you, always carry your UK licence and an IDP, or a local licence, plus your car registration documents and insurance card.
If you want to apply for a local driving licence, get your UK driving licence authenticated by the DVLA in the UK.
Road conditions
Driving standards in Côte d’Ivoire are poor. There is a high number of fatal road accidents and emergency services outside of Abidjan are unreliable.
Road conditions are improving in Abidjan, but driving outside the capital is much more difficult. Poorly lit roads and the risk of stray livestock make driving particularly dangerous at night. During the rainy season minor roads may become impassable.
Public transport
Take care when using public transport – driving standards and vehicle maintenance are poor.
Taxis
There are 2 types of taxis:
red taxis, which you can hail on the street and tend to be for private use – there may be issues with the standard of vehicle maintenance
yellow taxis, which are shared
Be cautious when using shared yellow taxis and try to avoid using them after dark. In Abidjan there are online taxi booking services which have higher maintenance standards and are more likely to have seatbelts.
Roadblocks and checkpoints
There are roadblocks and checkpoints in and around Abidjan and across the country. The Côte d’Ivoire government is currently running a campaign against bad driving and unroadworthy vehicles.
Slow down at any type of checkpoint and stay calm. Comply when the police ask you for routine paperwork such as photo ID, driving licence, insurance and vehicle registration or ownership documents, which you should carry with you in your vehicle.
Beware of unofficial roadblocks – you could be robbed or assaulted. These are sometimes set up by armed bandits known as ‘coupeurs de route’ and are mostly on secondary or quiet roads. 
If the police issue you with a fine, they should also issue you with related paperwork.
Extreme weather and natural disasters
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards.
Flooding
The rainy season is between May and November. Torrential rains often cause flooding, landslides and large potholes. Flash flooding has caused deaths. Monitor local weather reports.
Ocean currents
Ocean currents are very strong along the coast. Rip tides cause many swimming accidents and drownings each year. There is no lifeboat or rescue service.
See water safety on holiday from the Royal Life Saving Society.
