Coronavirus guidance is being updated.
Read the Prime Minister’s statement for the latest information.

This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Côte d’Ivoire as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Côte d’Ivoire to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Côte d’Ivoire
The government declared an end to the nationwide curfew on 15 May. The state of emergency has been extended to 30 June.
Restaurants reopened from 15 May but bars, nightclubs, cinemas and theatres will remain closed until 30 June. Schools have now reopened.
The ban on all movement of people to and from Abidjan has been extended until the end of June. For the purpose of the government decree, “Abidjan” includes the District of Abidjan, Dabou, Azaguie, Bingerville, Grand-Bassam, Bonoua, Assinie and up to PK30 on the Abidjan-Yamoussoukro motorway. Within Abidjan gatherings of more than 50 people are currently not permitted.
The decree exempts people transporting food supplies, medical and pharmaceutical products, medical evacuations, gas and fuel deliveries, as well as water, electricity, telephony and emergency services.
For information on entering Côte d’Ivoire, see Entry requirements
Visas
If you are already in Cote d’Ivoire and your visa is about to expire, for a fee you can apply for an extension in person to the Sûreté Nationale office in the Plateau district in Abidjan. Opening hours are from 8 am to 2 pm Monday to Friday. You will also need a completed application form and a passport photograph. If you are coming from outside Abidjan, you will need a government exemption.
Contact the British Embassy by email at British.Embassy.Abidjan@fco.gov.uk for assistance with this.
Health
The Government of Côte d’Ivoire is encouraging those with any information or concerns about coronavirus to call these local free hotline numbers: 143 or 101. You can also send a message to 1336 to receive information about coronavirus by text.
For contact details for English speaking doctors, visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Côte d’Ivoire.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Côte d’Ivoire, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
