The following advice within Côte d’Ivoire remains in place:
The FCDO advise against all but essential travel to:
within 40km of the northern border with Mali and Burkina Faso
the Comoé national park area in the northeast border region
within 20km of the border with Liberia
See Local travel and Terrorism
Travel to Côte d’Ivoire is subject to entry restrictions
All travellers to and from Côte d’Ivoire are required to complete an online air travel declaration to present on arrival. Travellers on domestic flights are exempt.
All travellers to and from Côte d’Ivoire are required to present evidence of a negative COVID-19 test result, dated a maximum of 5 days prior to travel.
Land and sea borders remain closed.
Arriving passengers are encouraged to self-isolate for 14 days.
See Entry requirements for more information before you plan to travel.
Preparing for your return journey to the UK
If you’re returning to the UK from overseas, you will need to:
provide your journey and contact details before you travel
check if you need to self-isolate on your return
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
If you’re planning travel to Côte d’Ivoire, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCDO’s guidance on foreign travel insurance.
There have been political protests in Abidjan and around the country (including in Bangolo, Bonoua, Daoukro, Divo and Dabou) since 8 August. Curfews may be put in place at short notice. Further protests are likely ahead of the October 31 Presidential election. See Safety and security.
Terrorists are likely to try to carry out attacks in Côte d’Ivoire. There is an increased risk of terrorism and kidnap in northern border areas, due to the porous nature of borders into the Sahel region. However, there remains a risk elsewhere in the country. Attacks on beach resorts, hotels, cafés and restaurants visited by foreigners are possible and could occur without warning. Be especially vigilant in these places. See Terrorism
You will need to get a visa before you travel. See Visas
Violent crime can occur at any time. Be particularly vigilant and take care when travelling by road, especially at night. See Crime
UK health authorities have classified Côte d’Ivoire as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For information and advice about the risks associated with Zika virus, visit the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
The British Embassy in Abidjan can provide emergency consular assistance. Consular support is not available in parts of Cote d’Ivoire where the FCDO advise against all but essential travel.
The Overseas Business Risk service offers information and advice for British companies operating overseas on how to manage political, economic, and business security-related risks.
