Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Bahamas on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Bahamas.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements. Testing is widely available from private clinics in New Providence and in main tourist locations on outer islands. A list of testing sites is available.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19 in The Bahamas before returning to the UK, you will be expected to self-isolate in a hotel, private residence or medical facility. You should also be expected to be contacted by local health authorities to confirm that you are complying with self-isolation rules. Should you need to leave your place of self-isolation for essential purposes then arrangements can be made with the local authorities. It is important to note that people under 17 years of age cannot apply for a Travel Health visa. They must therefore arrive in The Bahamas with a parent or guardian.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in The Bahamas
A public state of emergency in place under the Emergency Powers (COVID-19 Pandemic) Orders, 2021. The measures are available at the Office of the Prime Minister website and are subject to change by the Bahamian government.
Inter-island travel
Inter-island travel rules are subject to change at short notice. Before you travel, review the latest schedule of islands that has restricted travel measures in force. Details of the travel health card application for domestic travel are available from the Bahamian government website.
Public places and services
Certain rules are in place on the islands of New Providence and Grand Bahama. Details of these rules, which include a curfew and limitations on social gatherings, are available at the Office of the Prime Minister website, subject to change.
The following measures are in place throughout the Bahamas:
Face masks must be worn in any public space and must be worn for entry into supermarkets, pharmacies and businesses
Face masks or coverings must cover your nose and mouth; face mask must also be visible and easily identifiable
A government issued identification must be carried on person to present at police checkpoints, which have been established on several islands
Social gatherings are subject to restrictions which vary across the islands
Socially distancing is set at 6ft apart. You may be required to stand or sit in a designated area according to the social distancing measures in place in a particular location
Hand washing and/or hand sanitizing is required upon entry into public buildings and private establishments. A security guard may ask you to wash your hands or they may spray your hands with a disinfectant
Health officers can order persons to be detained for screening and assessment and may order isolation or quarantine on reasonable grounds in order to prevent further spread of the disease. Visitors may incur the cost of quarantine and testing in government designated quarantine facilities
Failure to comply with the Emergency (COVID-19) Orders, will result in fines and/or imprisonment. All Emergency Orders are available on the Office of the Prime Minister’s COVID19 section.
Accommodation
The Ministry of Tourism provides information about accommodation that has received a ‘Clean and Pristine’ certificate from The Bahamas’ Clean and Pristine Certification Agency. Hotels, lodges and bed and breakfasts provide tourists with information on how the Emergency (COVID-19) Orders apply to their establishments.
Healthcare in the Bahamas
If you’re in The Bahamas and concerned that you may have contracted coronavirus the Ministry of Health call centre is 511 or 911 – for emergency services.
Doctor’s offices, hospitals and medical facilities remain open. For contact details for doctors visit our list of healthcare providers. Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Bahamas.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in The Bahamas
Wherever possible British nationals should aim to be vaccinated in the country where they live. We will update this page when the Government of Bahamas announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Bahamas national vaccination programme started in March 2021 and is using the AstraZeneca vaccine. British nationals resident in the Bahamas are eligible for vaccination and the programme includes all adults over the age of 18. The latest information is available on the Office of the Prime Minister’s website. Limited vaccination appointments are bookable on The Bahamas government website.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in the Bahamas, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
