This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in The Bahamas set and enforce entry rules. For further information contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to. You should also consider checking with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Entry rules in response to coronavirus (COVID-19)
Entry to The Bahamas
Flight availability is restricted, only limited international and domestic flight options are available while the state of emergency remains in force.
British Airways resumed direct flights between The Bahamas and the UK on 31 May 2021. You should refer to the BA website and call centre +1 877 767 7970 for more information. You should refer to the travel advice and restrictions before travelling.
Arrival: Health Visa and Quarantine requirement
Under the emergency orders, the government of The Bahamas have introduced mandatory health visa and insurance procedures and mandatory testing for visitors, nationals and residents entering The Bahamas. The orders which set this out are available on the Prime Minister’s website and on the Tourism Ministry’s website. The rules are subject to change at short notice.
Visitors entering must follow the mandatory requirements for entering The Bahamas, including the COVID-19 testing and Travel Health Visa Application procedures outlined below.
A negative COVID-19 RT PCR (molecular swab) test certificate is required on entry as well as a health visa application for international travel. The negative test results must be uploaded when completing the Travel Health Visa Application prior to arrival. The test must not have been taken more than 5 days prior to the date of arrival. The health visa application is available from The Bahamas travel page. Travellers are required to opt-in to a health insurance which covers them for the duration of their stay. The cost will be included in the Travel Health Visa application. An automated email response will be provided once the application is completed. This confirmation must be presented upon arrival in The Bahamas. Allow 72 hours to process. Children 11 years old or younger are exempt from presenting a COVID-19 test upon entering The Bahamas.
From 1 May 2021 there is an exemption to testing for travellers who can upload evidence of full vaccination to their health visa application.
You should not use the NHS testing service to get a test in order to facilitate your travel to another country. You should arrange to take a private test.
In addition to the health visa requirements, health screening and social distancing measures are in effect at all international and domestic airports. You should expect longer waiting times on arrival.
After 1 November, travellers who are staying in The Bahamas more than four nights/five days will be required to take a rapid antigen test and complete daily health questionnaires. More details are available at the Ministry of Tourism’s website.
Demonstrating your COVID-19 vaccination status
The Bahamas will accept the UK’s solutions to demonstrate your COVID vaccination status. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
Entry for residents
If you’re a British national ordinarily resident in The Bahamas but unable to return due to the travel restrictions you should refer to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for further information on repatriation and the Ministry of Tourism and the COVID-19 Travel page.
Visas
If you’re concerned about your immigration status (e.g. overstaying a visa) due to the emergency restrictions the Department of Immigration is 225 5337 or immigration@bahamas.gov.bs. The Department of Immigration has also published guidance on how to apply for an electronic extension to stay and other COVID-19 related immigration concerns on their website.
Regular entry requirements
Visas
British nationals visiting are usually allowed entry into the Bahamas for up to 21 days. This can be extended up to a maximum of 8 months by applying to the Department of Immigration in Nassau. Penalties for overstaying include fines and detention pending deportation.
If you require a visitor visa, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has an electronic visa application process. The official website is: https://mofa.gov.bs/obtaining-official-documents/visitors-visa/. Please email mofaconsular@bahamas.gov.bs for more information on visa processing fees and turnaround times.
For all other types of travel, seek advice from the Bahamian High Commission in London.
If you are travelling via the USA, you may need to apply for an ESTA. The Bahamas counts as part of the ‘contiguous territory and islands’ for US visa waiver purposes and time spent in The Bahamas counts towards the 90 day maximum permitted stay in the US under this waiver. If you travel to The Bahamas via the USA under US visa waiver arrangements and are in any doubt about your US visa status, you should seek advice from either the US Immigration and Naturalisation Service or any US diplomatic mission before starting your return journey.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are accepted for entry to and exit from the Bahamas. However, UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are not valid for entry into the United States under the Visa Waiver Program (VWP). If you’re planning to enter or transit the US the Bahamas using a UK Emergency Travel Document you must apply for a US visa before you travel.
Passport validity
You must hold a valid passport to enter The Bahamas. Your passport should be valid for six months from the date of departure from The Bahamas.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
Departure tax
All residents and visitors six years and over must pay a departure tax of $25 (US or Bahamian dollars), which may or may not be included in the price of your ticket.
