Air: commercial flights
There are currently extremely limited commercial options available to return to the UK from The Bahamas. Due to the travel restrictions there are no direct flights to the UK or Europe. Severely limited options may be possible via other destinations such as the US, but you should refer to those countries’ restrictions before travelling to ensure that you will be allowed to enter the country for onward connection.
Travellers should contact their airlines, travel agents and tour operators for advice. British Airways have advised that they do not plan to resume flights to Nassau until 2 July. Affected BA customers will be notified of their flight cancellations with status update messages and can call the BA Contact Centre on: 1 877 767 7970 to rebook; or go to www.ba.com
The US Embassy in the Bahamas provide regular updates on limited flight services to the US where transit to the UK may be possible. They are advising that the flight departures to the US are not guaranteed and subject to cancellation at short notice. See travel advice for the USA for details of eligibility to transit the US and other restrictions.
Air: private charters
Private chartered airlines require Government approval prior to their departure. You will be required to present documentation on the passengers, freight and aircraft details (itinerary and tail number). For permission and further advice, the Bahamian Government has designated the following contact:
Captain Charles Beneby
Director General, Bahamas Civil Aviation Authority (BCAA)
E-Mail: charles.beneby@bcaa.gov.bs
Mobile: (+1-242) 823-5488
Sea: private vessels
The restrictions on movement also apply to maritime travel. Inter-island travel is banned. Foreign pleasure craft currently anchored or moored in The Bahamas are only allowed to travel to leave Bahamian waters and the Bahamian government is encouraging boats to depart.
For those wishing to leave the Bahamas the Association of Bahamas Marinas can provide further advice and a list of marinas helping boaters. You should visit their Facebook page for more information. Other providers may be also available. For those wishing to remain on board their vessels, the Bahamian government has produced guidance on resupply and refuelling by remote means and that disembarking vessels is not allowed. Conditions may vary across the islands on The Bahamas. For exemptions or further advice the Bahamian government have designated the following contacts:
Cmdr. Berne Wright, The Port Controller
Port Department, Ministry of Transport
Prince George’s Dock
P.O. Box N8175
Nassau, N.P., The Bahamas
E-Mail: bernewright@bahamas.gov.bs
Phone: (+1-242) 376-3371
and:
Capt. Dwain E. Hutchinson (Advisor)
Director, The Bahamas Maritime Authority
Shirlaw House 226 Shirley Street
P.O. Box N-4679
Nassau, N.P., The Bahamas
E-Mail: Director@bahamasmaritime.com
Phone: (+1-242) 424-1937; (+44-7960) 032-283
Sea: cruise line crew
Bahamian flagged cruise lines are able to have safe anchor in The Bahamas but are not allowed to disembark passengers or crew. Each cruise line is making individual plans for their ships. Crew and staff should contact their cruise company for updates and information on those plans.
The Foreign Office have a dedicated team liaising with the Department for Transport and the cruise lines on their plans for crew and other staff. They can be contacted at cruisecrewusa@fco.gov.uk or fcocorrespondence@fco.gov.uk Or please call 020 7008 1500 option 1 for serious health or other emergency consular assistance.
Future options
The UK operated a special flight from Nassau on Tuesday 7 April for British tourists, short term visitors and their direct dependants to return to the UK. Further special flights of this kind are not planned.
While commercial flights and charter airlines continue to provide transit routes via the USA for eligible travellers, the British High Commission Nassau is in contact with airlines, the Bahamian authorities and other governments to make sure other commercial options for returning to the UK are available as soon as possible.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. International money and wire services businesses are restricted but the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have said that SunCash is facilitating money transfers and other operators may also be available. Some local banks have adjusted their hours.
If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK.
For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Your journey home
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact 225 6033, option 2.
The High Commission cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone. This page will be updated when departure options become available. To get the latest information, sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow us on Twitter and Facebook
If you cannot leave Bahamas
If you cannot leave Bahmas at this time, see advice on staying in Bahamas during coronavirus.
