

Terrorism  
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.     
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad. 
Terrorism in The Bahamas 
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in The Bahamas, attacks cannot be ruled out. 
Attacks could be indiscriminate including in places visited by foreigners. Stay aware of your surroundings, keep up to date with local media reports and follow the advice of local authorities.  
Crime 
Violent crime 
There have been violent crimes and armed robberies, sometimes fatal, in residential and tourist areas of New Providence and Grand Bahama.  
To reduce your risk, do not go on foot outside the main tourist areas and beaches, especially if you are alone. Stay in downtown Nassau, where there are regular police patrols. Avoid unlit areas, and travel in groups after dusk.  
Take care if travelling on local bus services at night away from the main tourist areas. If you are attacked, do not resist and comply with any demands. Robbers may have concealed weapons.  
Protecting your belongings 
There is an increase in reported break-ins and thefts. The outlying islands of The Bahamas (known as the Family or Out Islands) have lower crime rates.  
The risk of petty theft and pickpocketing increases during regattas and festivals. You can take precautions by keeping valuables in a safe place. Take care to lock doors and windows when staying at short-term vacation rental properties, especially if there are no security guards.      
Drink spiking and sexual assault 
The risk of sexual assault increases during regattas and festivals. Do not leave your drinks unattended.  
There have been reports of sexual assaults on foreign nationals by jet ski operators in Nassau. 
Laws and cultural differences  
Illegal drugs and prison sentences 
Penalties for possessing or trafficking drugs are severe. Tourists may encounter drugs in pubs and bars. Police are vigilant and you could face a substantial fine, deportation or imprisonment. 
LGBT+ travellers 
Local attitudes towards the LGBT+ community are mostly conservative throughout the Caribbean. In The Bahamas, same-sex sexual relations have been legal since 1991, with an age of consent of 18. However, LGBT+ travellers should be aware that showing affection in public may attract unwanted and negative attention. Showing affection in public, especially for same-sex couples, is uncommon. 
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers. 
Outdoor activities and adventure tourism  
Swimming safety 
Fatal shark attacks can happen without warning. Night swimming (including at dusk), puts you at a higher risk, even in shallow waters close to resorts. Paddle boards in deeper water could be at risk. The Bahamian authorities warn of a particular threat in New Providence and nearby islands and cays.  
Some organisers of day excursions use bait to attract marine life, which can also increase the risk of sharks attacking. Never go into water that has been baited. Several attacks in wider Bahamian waters have been linked to tour operators offering shark encounters too close to where fishermen have been gutting fish.   
Beware of jet skis when swimming. Most swimming areas are marked by buoys, but these are not always respected by jet ski operators or tourists.  
Water sports 
The water sports industry in The Bahamas is poorly regulated. Be careful when renting jet skis and other water sports equipment, as many companies and individuals offering water sports activities are unregistered or use poor quality equipment. People have been killed and seriously injured, or killed others, when using jet skis and other watercraft recklessly.  
Transport risks  
Road travel  
If you are planning to drive a hire car or a UK vehicle, see information on driving abroad. 
You can use a UK photocard driving licence to drive in The Bahamas for up to 3 months. If you still have a paper driving licence, you may need to update it to a photocard licence or get the 1968 version of the international driving permit (IDP).  
If you’re staying longer or living in The Bahamas, you’ll need to get a Bahamian driving licence. 
Although traffic drives on the left-hand side of the road, most vehicles, including hire cars, are imported from the USA and are left-hand drive. 
The legal alcohol limit when driving is the same as in England, but this law is not always enforced – so driving in the evening and on rural roads may be dangerous. 
Extreme weather and natural disasters 
Hurricanes  
The hurricane season in The Bahamas normally runs from 1 June to 30 November. Hurricanes and resulting floods in The Bahamas can be deadly. The department of meteorology advises residents and visitors in north-west and central Bahamas (including Nassau) to make hurricane preparations. Due to the risk of flight cancellation, local residents tend to make departure plans well in advance of a possible evacuation order. 
In preparation for a hurricane, make sure your residence is secure, you have sufficient drinking water and access to life jackets in case there is a tidal surge. 
Follow local weather updates and monitor approaching storms on the US National Hurricane Center website.  
Find out more about how to respond to hurricane warnings. 
