This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Bahamas as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Bahamas to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Bahamas
For information on entering Bahamas, see Entry Requirements.
On 17 March 2020, the Governor General declared a state of public emergency in The Bahamas. On 23 March 2020, the Prime Minister of the Bahamas announced further emergency measures to combat the spread of COVID-19 see full measures.
On 27 April the state of public emergency was extended until 30 May 2020. A 24 hour curfew limiting movement and shopping is in place every day with a total lockdown (with all stores closed and no travel allowed) during weekends through to 30 May 2020. The situation varies across the islands depending on the spread of the virus. Some islands (such as Abaco and Andros) have had curfew lifted while Bimini has a complete lock down until 30 May.
On New Providence, Grand Bahama, Eleuthera and the Exumas many businesses have closed, but those that provide essential services (including grocery stores) continue with restricted hours; as well as stores that provide online or telephone ordering with delivery or curbside pick-up. Social distancing and wearing facemasks is obligatory for everyone leaving their own property.
Additionally there are periods of total lock down at weekends during May (with all stores closed and a ban on movement for non-essential personnel) Doctor’s offices, hospitals and medical facilities remain open. Many hotels have closed. More details are available at the website of the Office of the Prime Minister of the Bahamas.
Visas
If you’re concerned about your immigration status (e.g. overstaying a visa) due to the emergency restrictions the Department of Immigration is 225 5337 or immigration@bahamas.gov.bs. The Department of Immigration has also published guidance on how to apply for an electronic extension to stay. Details are available on their website
If you require a visitor visa, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has an electronic visa application process. The official website is: https://mofa.gov.bs/obtaining-official-documents/visitors-visa/. Please email mofaconsular@bahamas.gov.bs for more information on visa processing fees and turn around times.
Health
If you’re in The Bahamas and concerned that you may have contracted coronavirus the Ministry of Health 24 hour call centre is (+ 1) (242) 502 7382. The Bahamas government also has the following call centres: 511 – for health related queries; 411 – for general questions on the restrictions; 911 – for emergency services.
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Bahamas.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in the Bahamas, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
