The FCDO advises against all but essential travel to:
the whole of the Bahamas based on the current assessment of COVID-19 risks.
If you are returning to the UK from Bahamas on or after 7 August, you will need to self-isolate on your return (unless you are exempt). Check the latest guidance for England, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales.
Travel to The Bahamas is subject to entry restrictions
To enter The Bahamas you will need to present a negative COVID-19 test certificate that is less than 5 days old, as well as a health visa application for international travel and a health card application for domestic travel. From 1 May there will be an exemption from testing for fully vaccinated travellers.
The rules are subject to change and may involve further testing and self-isolation depending on the length of stay and islands visited.
See Entry requirements for more information before you plan to travel.
Preparing for your return journey to the UK
If you’re returning to the UK from overseas, you will need to:
provide your journey and contact details before you travel
check if you need to self-isolate on your return
If your return journey to the UK transits another country, you should check whether it is subject to a travel ban or any other additional requirements. If so, contact your travel provider.
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
If you’re planning travel to the Bahamas, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCDO’s guidance on foreign travel insurance.
For information about COVID-19 vaccines, see the Coronavirus page.
A special charter flight from Nassau to London was organised on 28 July. No further charter flights are planned. See Return to the UK
Cruise ships are not allowed to dock and disembark. More details on domestic and international travel restrictions are available at website of the Bahamian Ministry of Tourism, the COVID-19 Travel page and at the Entry requirements section.
There were more than 36,000 visits to The Bahamas from the UK in 2018. Most visits are trouble-free.
The hurricane season in The Bahamas normally runs from June to November. You should follow the advice of the local authorities, including any evacuation orders. See the Bahamian National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) for more information. See Natural disasters
Hurricane Dorian caused significant and widespread damage to the eastern part of Grand Bahama and the central and northern Abaco Islands in September 2019. All other islands in The Bahamas remain unaffected. Ports in Grand Bahama are now operating as normal and a number of hotels and resorts there have reopened. See Grand Bahama and the Abaco Islands
There have been incidents of violent crime including robbery. See Crime
The Bahamian authorities issued advice following a rare fatal shark attack in June 2019. See Water safety
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in The Bahamas, attacks can’t be ruled out. See Terrorism
UK health authorities have classified The Bahamas as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For more information and advice, visit the website of the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
There is no permanent consular representation at the British High Commission in Nassau. However, the British High Commission in Kingston, Jamaica can provide consular support to British nationals. See Consular assistance
