Coronavirus health information
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Argentina on the TravelHealthPro website.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Argentina.
International travel
Argentina continues to ban direct flights to and from the UK and there are none currently in operation.
Commercial flights
Due to restrictions imposed by Argentina, there are currently no direct flights between Argentina and the UK. Travellers should consult their airline or tour operator if they have booked travel.
Flights from Brazil, Chile and India into Argentina are suspended until further notice. Direct flights to and from African continental countries are suspended until further notice. The Argentine Ministry of Transport can increase or reduce this list, or make other changes, depending on the situation. A weekly limit of 5200 arriving passengers has been set and this limit will be increased week on week until a weekly limit of 7000 arriving passengers is reached in early August.
There are a limited number of indirect flights which can be used to connect with the UK. Check with your airline or travel company for the latest information. You should also check the travel advice for the countries you will be transiting.
Travelling to the airport
You can travel from your accommodation to the airport if you have a valid plane ticket and are not showing any symptoms of coronavirus.
You need to complete an electronic ‘sworn statement’ form within 48 hours of leaving, self-certifying that you are not suffering from symptoms associated with coronavirus and that you have not been in contact with confirmed cases in the preceding fortnight.
Travel in Argentina
Free movement is allowed within each jurisdiction as long as social distancing rules are adhered to. A night-time curfew from midnight to 6am has been introduced in all jurisdictions deemed high risk by the authorities. You should make sure you understand and comply with the measures in place in the province/jurisdiction you are in. The use of public transport within jurisdictions remains restricted to essential workers and those in need of medical treatment.
Movement between jurisdictions is permitted, provided you meet the requirements of the specific jurisdiction/province you plan to visit. Requirements might include taking a COVID-19 PCR test and applying for a permit to circulate (Certificado Único de Circulación) or a permit for tourism purposes (Certificado Turismo).
You should check what measures apply in your location and any other location you might qualify to travel to or transit through on the Ministry of Health website (in Spanish). You could be subject to a financial penalty if you do not abide by local regulations.
All arrivals into the City of Buenos Aires must take a COVID-19 test within 72 hours of arriving. Online booking is required. Children under the age of 12 are exempt. Full details on this requirement including information on where you can take the test and how to book are available on the City of Buenos Aires website(in Spanish).
Public spaces and services
In Argentina, measures to control the spread of COVID-19 are ongoing. The entire country is in a phase of mandatory social distancing. Additional restrictions may vary between jurisdictions.
In all parts of Argentina you must cover your nose and mouth with a face mask or other garment whenever you go out in public.
Healthcare in Argentina
For contact details for English speaking doctors, visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Argentina.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Argentina
We will update this page when the Government of Argentina announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Argentinian national vaccination programme started in December 2020 and is using the AstraZeneca, Covishield, Sinopharm and Sputnik V vaccines. British nationals resident in Argentina are eligible for vaccination if they choose to join the programme.
Vaccination is occurring in priority phases and is voluntary and free of charge. You must hold a DNI (national ID) to qualify for a vaccine. Each province/jurisdiction is responsible for the distribution of the vaccines in their area. Further information on Argentina’s national vaccination programme, including priority lists, the status of the rollout in each province and enrolment details are available on the Argentine Ministry of Health website (in Spanish).
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in Argentina, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements.
From 8 June, direct flights could arrive in England from Argentina, but they would have to arrive at dedicated terminals at Heathrow and Birmingham airports. Different requirements may apply for arrivals into Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland.
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) also provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
You can find more information about cases in Argentina on the TravelHealthPro website.
