This page has information on travelling to Argentina. Check what you must do to return to the UK.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport from the UK, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Argentina set and enforce entry rules.
If you’re fully vaccinated
If you’re fully vaccinated, you can enter Argentina as a tourist without needing quarantine.
At least 14 days must have passed since your second dose of the vaccine.
Whether you have received a complete course of a vaccine or not, will be determined by the authorities of the country where you received your vaccine.
You must be able to prove your full vaccination status via a document from a national or state-level public health body if vaccinated abroad.
You must fill in an electronic ‘sworn statement’ form within 48 hours of travelling confirming you will abide by COVID-19 restrictions.
You must present a negative COVID-19 PCR test taken within 72 hours before boarding your flight or a negative antigen test taken within 48 hours before boarding your flight. If you are a child under 6, an airline crew member transiting the country through an international airport for less than 24 hours, have had coronavirus within 90 days of your trip, or a resident of a neighbouring country, or you have spent the last 14 days in a neighbouring country, you are exempt from this requirement. If you have had COVID-19 confirmed by a lab test within 90 days of your trip, you don’t need to take a PCR test. Instead, you will need to show evidence of your diagnosis and a medical certificate issued at least 10 days after being diagnosed confirming that you have a clean bill of health; If you have been diagnosed without a lab test, due to a close contact with a positive case within 90 days of starting your trip, you will need to show a medical certificate issued at least 10 days after your symptoms started or of the close contact with a positive case, confirming that you have a clean bill of health.
You must have medical insurance with comprehensive cover for coronavirus, including hospitalisation and the costs of self-isolation and medical transport services for positive and suspected cases, as well as for close contacts. All travellers must be prepared to show proof of having complied with all entry requirements when required by the authorities during their first 14 days in the country.
Children who do not qualify as fully vaccinated can enter Argentina without needing to self-isolate but should avoid large gatherings for the first 7 days.
Proof of vaccination status
You must present proof that you have been fully vaccinated to enter Argentina for tourism purposes.
Argentina will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 recovery and vaccination record and proof of COVID-19 vaccination issued in the Crown Dependencies. Your second dose must have been administered at least 14 days prior to travel. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
Residents of Argentina
If you’re a resident of Argentina and you’re fully vaccinated:
You must have received a complete course of a vaccine at least 14 days prior to arrival into Argentina. Whether you have received a complete course of a vaccine or not, will be determined by the authorities of the country where you received your vaccine
You must fill in an electronic ‘sworn statement’ form within 48 hours of travelling con-firming you will abide by COVID-19 restrictions;
If you have tested positive for COVID-19, you can enter the country on a private vehicle after a 7-day self-isolation period, counting from the day the lab test was taken or from the day the symptoms started. You can enter the country on passenger directed vehicles after a 10-day self-isolation period, counting from the day the lab test was taken or from the day the symptoms started
If you are a close contact of someone who has tested positive for COVID-19, you can enter the country on a private vehicle as long as you have not developed symptoms
If you’re not fully vaccinated
If you’re not fully vaccinated, and you’re not a resident of Argentina, you cannot enter the country for tourism purposes. Whether you have received a complete course of a vaccine or not, will be determined by the authorities of the country where you received your vaccine.
If you’ve had COVID-19 in the last 90 days
If you’re not fully vaccinated but have tested positive for COVID-19 in the past 90 days, and you are a resident of Argentina, you are allowed to enter the country and you will not need to take an additional COVID-19 test. The evidence you will need to present will depend on whether you were diagnosed with a lab test or without one:
If you have had COVID-19 confirmed by a lab test within 90 days of your trip you don’t need to take a PCR test. Instead, you will need to show evidence of your diagnosis and a medical certificate issued at least 10 days after being diagnosed, confirming that you have a clean bill of health
If you have been diagnosed without a lab test, due to a close contact with a positive case within 90 days of starting your trip, you will need to show a medical certificate is-sued at least 10 days after your symptoms started or of the close contact with a positive case, confirming that you have a clean bill of health
You can use the the UK’s proof of COVID-19 recovery record to demonstrate proof of COVID-19 recovery when entering Argentina.
Residents of Argentina
If you’re a resident of Argentina and you’re not fully vaccinated:
You must present a negative COVID-19 PCR test taken within 72 hours before boarding your flight, or a negative antigen test taken within 48 hours before boarding your flight. Land border travellers must present a negative COVID-19 PCR test taken within 72 hours of starting their journey, or an antigen test taken within 48 hours of starting their journey, no older than 7 days. The following are exempt of this requirement: Children under 6, airline crew members transiting the country through an international air-port for less than 24 hours, travellers who have had coronavirus within 90 days of their trip or who have spent the last 14 days in a neighbouring country.
If you have had COVID-19 confirmed by a lab test within 90 days of your trip you don’t need to take a PCR test. Instead, you will need to show evidence of your diagnosis and a medical certificate issued at least 10 days after being diagnosed, confirming that you have a clean bill of health. If you have been diagnosed without a lab test, due to a close contact with a positive case within 90 days of starting your trip, you will need to show a medical certificate issued at least 10 days after your symptoms started or of the close contact with a positive case, confirming that you have a clean bill of health
You must fill in an electronic ‘sworn statement’ form within 48 hours of travelling
You must self-isolate for 7 days counting from the day after the PCR or antigen test was taken;
Children aged 17 or under do not have to self-isolate but should avoid large gatherings for the first 7 days
You can enter the country on a private vehicle if you are a close contact of someone who has tested positive for COVID-19, as long as you have not developed symptoms, and must self-isolate for 10 days after your most recent contact
Children and young people
Children aged 5 and under, do not need to take a test to enter Argentina.
Children aged 17 and under who do not qualify as fully vaccinated can enter Argentina without needing to self-isolate but should avoid large gatherings for the first 7 days.
If you’re transiting through Argentina
If you are transiting through Argentina on your way to another country and staying in the airport (airside) you are not required to comply with any sanitary requirements.
If you are transiting through Argentina on your way to another country and will be passing through immigration (sometimes known as a layover), for example to stay in a hotel for a flight the next day, you must comply with the sanitary entry requirements applicable to you. These will differ if you are a non-resident foreign national or a resident of Argentina, as well as if you are fully vaccinated, or not.
Exemptions
Non-resident foreign nationals who are not fully vaccinated cannot enter Argentina for tourism purposes. If you would like to request for an exemption, you must contact your nearest Argentine Consulate to seek approval for your trip.
If the exemption is granted, you will have to comply with the following requirements: You must present an official document proving the exemption was granted;
You must present a negative COVID-19 PCR test taken within 72 hours before boarding your flight or a negative antigen test taken within 48 hours before boarding your flight;
Must fill in an electronic ‘sworn statement’ form within 48 hours of travelling;
Must self-isolate for 7 days counting from the day after the PCR or antigen test was taken;
You must have medical insurance with comprehensive cover for coronavirus, including hospitalisation and the costs of self-isolation and medical transport services for positive and suspected cases, as well as for close contacts
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
Passport validity
If you are visiting Argentina, your passport should be valid for the proposed duration of your stay. No additional period of validity beyond this is required.
If you are a resident in Argentina, your passport must be valid for entry. No additional period of validity beyond your arrival date is required.
Visas
You don’t need a visa to enter or travel through Argentina as a visitor, unless you’re travelling on an Emergency Travel Document. To apply for this visa you must contact the Embassy of the Argentine Republic closest to you.
On presentation of a valid British Passport you will normally be given an entry stamp permitting you to stay in the country for a period of up to 90 days. If you wish to extend your stay for another 90-day period, seek advice from the Argentine Migration Office.
If you’re travelling to Argentina for any purpose other than tourism, contact the Embassy of the Argentine Republic in London.
Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs)
Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are accepted for entry, airside transit and exit from Argentina. However, holders of an ETD must apply for the appropriate Argentine visa to enter the country. For entry into Argentina, your ETD should be valid for the proposed duration of your stay. No additional period of validity beyond this is required.
Check with your travel provider to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Returning to the UK
You must complete an electronic ‘sworn statement’ form within 48 hours of leaving Argentina, self-certifying that you are not suffering from symptoms associated with coronavirus and that you have not been in contact with confirmed cases in the preceding fortnight.
Check what you must do to return to the UK.
