

The Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) cannot provide tailored advice for individual trips. Read this travel advice and carry out your own research before deciding whether to travel.
Emergency services in Argentina
Ambulance: 107
Fire: 100
Police: 911 or 101
Police assistance
Buenos Aires
For English-language safety tips or to file a police report online, go to the Buenos Aires Police website (only accessible in Argentina). 
Tourist Police (‘Comisaría del Turista’): +54 911 5050 9260 (24 hours)
Tourist Police WhatsApp: +54 911 5050 9260
Mendoza
Tourist Police (‘Comisaría del Turista’): +54 261 413 2135 (24 hours)
Contact your travel provider and insurer
Contact your travel provider and your insurer if you are involved in a serious incident or emergency abroad. They will tell you if they can help and what you need to do.
Refunds and changes to travel
For refunds or changes to travel, contact your travel provider. You may also be able to make a claim through insurance. However, insurers usually require you to talk to your travel provider first.
Find out more about changing or cancelling travel plans, including:
where to get advice if you are in a dispute with a provider
how to access previous versions of travel advice to support a claim
Support from FCDO
FCDO provides guidance on how to help yourself stay safe and what to do if you need help or support abroad, including:
finding English-speaking lawyers, funeral directors and translators and interpreters in Argentina
dealing with a death in Argentina
being arrested in Argentina
getting help if you’re a victim of crime
what to do if you’re in hospital
if you are affected by a crisis, such as a terrorist attack
Contacting FCDO  
Help abroad   
See how to get help from the UK government abroad including in an emergency.  
Help in the UK   
You can call FCDO in London if you need urgent help because something has happened to a friend or relative abroad.   
Telephone: 020 7008 5000 (24 hours)   
Find out about call charges 
Get travel advice updates   
Sign up to get email notifications when this travel advice is updated.   
Follow and contact FCDO:  
travel advice on X 
travel advice on Facebook
Risk information for British companies
The Overseas Business Risk service offers information and advice for British companies operating in Argentina on how to manage political, economic, and business security-related risks.
