At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Coronavirus
Cases of coronavirus (COVID-19) have been confirmed in Argentina. The Argentine authorities have introduced measures to limit the spread of the virus.
On 12 March the Argentine President announced a 30 day suspension of all international flights from the UK (as well as the whole of Europe, the US, China, Japan, South Korea and Iran) to Argentina.
The last direct flight from Argentina to the UK departed on Monday 16 March. Please be aware that other countries in the region are also imposing travel restrictions.
The government has closed the country’s borders for all entering except for Argentine citizens and resident foreign nationals. Those who have already arrived in Argentina (within the last 14 days) from the countries listed above plus Brazil and Chile must either also comply with the self-isolation requirement until they have completed 14 days since arrival without developing symptoms or leave the country immediately. The FCO strongly encourages non-resident British nationals in Argentina to consider leaving to avoid difficulties they will face if flights out of the country and the region are further restricted and they are unable to get home.
These regulations are subject to change at short notice and you should check with your travel provider before your journey. Further information is also available on the Argentine Ministry of Health website (in Spanish).
You should comply with any additional screening measures put in place by the authorities.
On 17 March, the government announced that all internal flights and long distance trains and buses will be cancelled from midnight on 19 March to midnight on 24 March. Local buses and trains in metropolitan Buenos Aires will only allow seated passengers from 19 March to 31 March.
Argentina is a federal country and individual provinces may introduce additional restrictions. On 16 March, the government of Tierra del Fuego province introduced freedom of movement restrictions for anyone in the province until 31 March. The main exceptions are to purchase food or medication, to visit banks, or to travel to airports or other transport terminals. British nationals in Tierra del Fuego should follow the advice of the Argentine authorities. The FCO strongly encourage non-resident British nationals to consider leaving as soon as possible.
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
You can find more information about cases in Argentina on the TravelHealthPro website.
Other health risks
Yellow fever vaccination is recommended for travel to some parts of the country. Check the TravelHealthPro website for more information.
UK health authorities have classified Argentina as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For more information and advice, visit the website of the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
An outbreak of hantavirus has been reported in Epuyén, Province of Chubut in southern Argentina. For more information and advice, visit the website of the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Dengue fever can occur throughout the year. You should take steps to avoid being bitten by mosquitoes.
Asthma, sinus and bronchial problems can be aggravated by the polluted atmosphere in the major cities.
Local medical care
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 107 or 911 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
Medical facilities are good, but can be expensive. Public hospitals tend to be crowded. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation. If you have a specific condition, bring a sufficient quantity of medical supplies and medicines with you.
