There are currently limited commercial options available to return to the UK from Argentina. Borders remain open for departure, but there are only a limited number of exceptional international flights approved by the authorities.
UK special flights
The UK operated two special flights from Argentina to help British travellers most at risk from the effects of COVID-19 to return to the UK. The flights departed on 7 and 12 May. There are currently no further UK special flights from Argentina.
Commercial flights
This is a list of flights currently approved by the authorities:
British Airways has special flights from Buenos Aires to London on 3, 5, 10, 12, 17, 19 and 24 October. To book, contact the airline directly by visiting the BA website.
KLM Royal Dutch Airlines has special flights from Buenos Aires to Amsterdam on 4, 8, 11, 15, 18 and 22 October. Onward travel to the UK is possible. To book, contact the airline’s call centre +54 11 5983 9374.
Air France has special flights from Buenos Aires to Paris on 3, 6, 10, 13, 20 and 24 October. Onward travel to the UK is possible. To book, contact the airline directly by visiting the Air France website.
Iberia has special flights from Buenos Aires to Barcelona on 5 and 10 October. Onward travel to the UK is possible. To book, contact the airline’s call centre on +54 11 5354 8125.
Aerolineas Argentinas has special flights from Buenos Aires to Madrid on 2, 9, 16, 23, 26 and 30 October. Onward travel to the UK is possible. To book, contact the airline directly by visiting the Aerolineas Argentinas website.
Air Europa has special flights from Buenos Aires to Madrid on 4, 11, 18 and 25 October. Onward travel to the UK is possible. To book, contact the airline’s call centre on 0810 122 4546.
This travel advice will be updated when departure options become available. Any exceptional flights in the future are likely to depart from Buenos Aires.
Stay up to date with this travel advice and follow the British Embassy social media accounts for any updates.
Travelling to the airport
You can travel from your accommodation to the airport if you have a valid plane ticket and are not showing any symptoms of coronavirus.
You need to complete an electronic ‘sworn statement’ form within 48 hours of leaving, self-certifying that you are not suffering from symptoms associated with coronavirus and that you have not been in contact with confirmed cases in the preceding fortnight.
You are only allowed to arrive at the airport within 5 hours of your flight departing.
Regular domestic flights within Argentina as well as all scheduled long distance trains and buses are suspended until further notice. There may be other options for travelling overland, such as taking a taxi or hiring a car, but you are only permitted to travel to Buenos Aires if you have a valid ticket for an international flight which departs within 24 hours of your arrival. Please also note that vehicles are unable to stop overnight so there must be a minimum of two drivers for long journeys.
If you need to spend a night in Buenos Aires, you will need to find accommodation to meet the requirements of the nationwide quarantine, which prohibits you from leaving your accommodation without justification. See Moving around in Argentina
If you are planning to travel overland to Buenos Aires, you will need:
a copy of the letter issued by the Ministry of Health confirming that foreign nationals travelling to return to their country of origin are exempt from the nationwide quarantine rules
a letter issued from the British Embassy confirming that you should be allowed to travel.
proof that you have a confirmed international flight departing within 24 hours of your arrival in Buenos Aires.
possible additional permissions depending on your route and means of travel. Check this with the British Embassy, as far in advance as possible, and at least 2 working days ahead of your departure to allow enough time for the Argentine authorities to process any request. Please email returnfrom.argentina@fcdo.gov.uk with the following details:
confirmed flight details (airline, flight number, date and time)
if using a remise/taxi company, provide the name of the company and CUIT number
name of driver/s and their DNI (ID)
make and model of vehicle
license plate number
address of departure
date and time of departure
exact route to Buenos Aires
If you are being driven, your drivers must also have the relevant permits allowing them to make the journey.
Your journey home: re-entering the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK. You:
need to provide your journey and contact details up to 48 hours before you’re due to arrive in the UK
are not allowed to leave the place you’re staying for the first 14 days you’re in the UK except in very limited situations (known as ‘self-isolating’)
See also the list of people who are exempt from the border rules.
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) also provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
Finance
If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance.
If you cannot leave Argentina
If you cannot leave Argentina at this time, see advice on staying in Argentina during coronavirus.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British Embassy 24/7 on +54 11 4808-2200. This includes if you encounter any resistance when trying to travel to Buenos Aires or to access the airport.
The Embassy cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone. This page will be updated when departure options become available.
Stay up to date with this travel advice and follow the British Embassy social media accounts for any updates.
