

Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Argentina
Terrorist attacks in Argentina cannot be ruled out.
Attacks could be indiscriminate including in places visited by foreign nationals. Stay aware of your surroundings, keep up to date with local media reports and follow the advice of local authorities.   
Political situation
Political protests
Political demonstrations and picketing are more common in Argentina than in the UK. Some demonstrations attract large numbers of people, and they can occasionally turn violent. Demonstrations are particularly common near Congress (‘Congreso’) and the Presidential Palace (‘Casa Rosada’).
You should:
avoid all protests, demonstrations and marches
exercise normal caution at any large gathering
be aware of your surroundings
monitor the local news
follow the advice of local authorities
There have also been occasional Falklands-related protests, including outside the British Embassy and British-affiliated businesses in Argentina.
Demonstrations
Groups of demonstrators (‘piqueteros’) sometimes block major roads at times of social unrest. These can include the major routes into and out of Buenos Aires City. This can cause significant delays.
When planning to travel:
monitor the local news
do not attempt to cross blockades
follow the advice of local authorities
Crime
Protecting your belongings
Thieves and pickpockets operate on public transport and at bus and train terminals.
To reduce the risk of theft:
always keep a close eye on your personal possessions – do not hang bags on the back of seats
carry cash out of sight or close to you – a money belt under your clothes is the safest option
you may need to produce your passport when paying with a credit card, but keep a copy somewhere safe
keep your bags close while you are checking into a hotel or hostel – thieves posing as hotel guests can snatch them
Thefts from unattended vehicles, especially hire cars, are also common. This happens frequently in Bariloche, but can happen across the country.
Street crime and scams
In crowded places, thieves can cut handbags open. They can snatch a mobile phone while you are using it on the street. Thieves on motorbikes can snatch bags from pedestrians.
Thieves – often women – use distraction techniques and may work in teams of 2 or more. A common form of distraction theft reported in Buenos Aires is the ‘mustard scam’. Thieves take your bags while an accomplice pretends to help you remove mustard they have sprayed on you. If this happens to you, politely but firmly refuse help and walk away.
In Buenos Aires, be particularly cautious in:
Palermo
San Telmo Market and general area of San Telmo
La Boca
The Ecological Reserve
Retiro
Florida Street
9 de Julio
Avenida de Mayo
Avenida Rivadavia near the obelisk
Retiro Bus terminal
Cruise and ferry terminals
In Mendoza, be particularly cautious downtown.
In Santa Fe, be particularly cautious in Rosario.
Violent crime
Armed robberies are a risk. If you are the victim of a robbery, hand over your cash and valuables without resistance.
Be vigilant in La Boca, Buenos Aires, especially in the streets outside the Caminito tourist area. To reduce your risk, stay in the designated tourist area where there are high-visibility police patrols.
Criminal kidnapping
Kidnappings including ‘express kidnappings’ – short-term opportunistic abductions – occasionally happen in Argentina. Victims of express kidnap are held and forced to empty their bank accounts by making bank transfers or going to ATMs, after which they are normally quickly released. Be aware of your surroundings and always let someone you trust know your whereabouts. If you are a victim of kidnapping, follow the kidnapper’s instructions.
To reduce your risk:
avoid wearing expensive clothing or jewellery, particularly in public
avoid casual taxis – see Transport risks
be vigilant, especially at night
Drink and food spiking and scams
Drinks and food can be spiked and could put you at risk of robbery or assault. Do not leave drinks unattended in bars and restaurants and do not accept food or drink from strangers.
Be alert to the possible use of ‘date rape’ and other drugs. Alcohol and drugs can reduce your vigilance, making you less in control.
There have been reports of foreign tourists being robbed or assaulted after inviting into their accommodation someone they have recently met, online or in person.
Laws and cultural differences
Illegal drugs and prison sentences
Do not become involved with illegal drugs of any kind. Possession of even very small quantities can lead to a lengthy prison sentence.
LGBT+ travellers
Argentine society is open and diverse. Discrimination based on sexual orientation is rare. Same-sex marriage is legal. Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers. 
Legal action against oil and gas companies
The government of Argentina has stated that it intends to pursue legal action against oil and gas companies engaged in hydrocarbon exploration in the Falkland Islands. If you’re travelling to Argentina and think you may be affected by this type of legal action, seek independent legal advice. 
Surrogacy
Before you consider a surrogacy arrangement in Argentina, consider the challenges and risks involved, and make sure you seek specialist independent legal advice both in the UK and in Argentina. For more information, read FCDO guidance on surrogacy overseas.
Surrogacy is not regulated by law in Argentina and surrogacy arrangements are not enforceable in law.
Local authorities may consider surrogacy arrangements to be illegal. Criminal investigations into surrogacy agencies and associated service providers are ongoing. Some intended parents have faced issues obtaining birth certificates and when attempting to leave Argentina with the child born to them through surrogacy. 
Children born through surrogacy in Argentina are Argentine citizens and must leave the country on an Argentine passport. They are also subject to local regulations applicable to the exit of minors in Argentina. See Travelling with children.
Outdoor activities and adventure tourism
If you take part in extreme or adventure sports, including paragliding, climbing, off-road driving and hot air ballooning, make sure:
adequate safety precautions are in place
you only use reputable operators and insist on training
your travel insurance covers all the activities you want to undertake and includes helicopter rescue and medical evacuation
You will have to pay for most helicopter rescues, including in Mount Aconcagua.
Altitude sickness is a risk when hiking in parts of Argentina. See Health. 
Transport risks
Road travel
If you are planning to drive in Argentina, see information on driving abroad. 
You’ll need to have both the 1949 version of the international driving permit (IDP) and your UK driving licence with you in the car. You cannot buy an IDP outside the UK, so get one before you travel.  
Respect for speed limits and traffic signals varies. Drivers can make unexpected turns or brake suddenly.
Vehicle crime is a problem. Always keep car windows closed and doors locked when driving in major cities.
Take care when driving in the province of Misiones, close to the borders with Paraguay and Brazil. The area is used to smuggle goods. Seek local advice from customs officials if you intend to drive in this area.
Taxis
Book taxis in advance if possible. If you hail a taxi in the street, only use a ‘radio taxi’. These have a clearly visible logo on the car doors.
The Buenos Aries government has a list of authorised radio taxi operators (in Spanish).
Air travel
Flights from Argentina can be unreliable. Check for delays or cancellations before travelling to the airport.
Sea travel
Activist groups sometimes try to disrupt UK-flagged ships or commercial shipping working off the Falkland Islands. Contact the local authorities before travelling. Most cruise ships and visiting tourists should not be affected.
Extreme weather and natural disasters 
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards. 
Flooding
Many northern provinces experience occasional flooding. This can disrupt transport and could lead to shortages. Flash floods can occur during heavy rains, in provinces including Buenos Aires. Monitor local media and follow instructions given by the local authorities.
Earthquakes
There is a risk of earthquakes in Argentina, particularly in the provinces of Mendoza, San Juan, Salta and Jujuy. Monitor media reports and follow the advice of local authorities.
The US Federal Emergency Management Agency website has advice about what to do before, during and after an earthquake.  
Volcanic eruptions
The Copahue Volcano on the Argentina-Chile border erupts occasionally, and the authorities will evacuate the area. If you’re travelling to this area, monitor local media reports and follow the advice of the local authorities.
Wildfires
Wildfires can occur throughout Argentina and can spread rapidly. They may lead to road closures and affect the air quality in nearby areas.
If you find yourself in or near the affected areas of any fire, monitor local media reports to stay informed of the rapidly evolving situation and follow the advice of the local authorities.
