This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Argentina as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Argentina to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Argentina
From midnight on 21 May and until midnight on 30 May, as well as the weekend of 5-6 June, all jurisdictions deemed high risk by the authorities, including the metropolitan area of Buenos Aires (AMBA), will re-enter a phase of strict quarantine. You must stay in your accommodation and can only go out for essentials in your neighbourhood between the hours of 6am and 6pm.
Jurisdictions not deemed high risk by the authorities remain in a phase of mandatory social distancing. The restrictions imposed may vary from place to place and might include curfews.
In all parts of Argentina you must cover your nose and mouth with a face mask or other garment whenever you go out in public. Movement between jurisdictions and the use of public transport are restricted to essential workers and other few exceptions. Those who qualify need a valid permit to circulate, known as a “Certificado Único de Circulación” which you must carry with you at all times. You must make sure to provide full details of your circumstances in the “Observations” box including:
details of your confirmed international flight if leaving Argentina
details of the hospital if you are travelling for medical treatment
details of your company/employer if travelling as an essential worker
details of your Argentine or resident family member if you are travelling to reunite with your family
You should check what measures apply in your location and any other location you might qualify to travel to or transit through in the Ministry of Health website (in Spanish). You could be subject to a financial penalty if you do not abide by local regulations.
All arrivals into the City of Buenos Aires must take a COVID-19 test within 72 hours of arriving. Online booking is required. Children under the age of 12 are exempted. Full details on this requirement including information on where you can take the test and how to book are available in the City of Buenos Aires website (in Spanish).
Visas
The 90-day permission for tourists to stay in Argentina is being extended each month by 30 days, if your original 90 days expired after 17 March 2020. The latest extension was announced on 23 April.
Health
For contact details for English speaking doctors, visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Argentina.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Argentina
Wherever possible British nationals should aim to be vaccinated in the country where they live. As further information is available about the national vaccination programme, this page will be updated. Sign up to get email notification.
Argentina’s national vaccination programme began in late December 2020. Vaccination is occurring in priority phases and is voluntary and free of charge. You must hold a DNI (national ID) to qualify for a vaccine. Each province/jurisdiction is responsible for the distribution of the vaccines in their area. Further information on Argentina’s national vaccination programme, including priority list, the status of the rollout in each province and enrolment details is available on the Argentine Ministry of Health website (in Spanish).
The Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) is the UK authority responsible for assessing the safety, quality and efficacy of vaccines. It has authorised the Pfizer/BioNTech, Oxford/AstraZeneca and Moderna vaccines for temporary supply and use in the UK. Find out more about MHRA approval for these vaccines.
British nationals living overseas should seek medical advice from their local healthcare provider in the country where they reside. Information about vaccines used in other national programmes, including regulatory status, should be available from the local authorities. This list of Stringent Regulatory Authorities recognised by the World Health Organisation may also be a useful source of additional information. Find out more about COVID-19 vaccines on the World Health Organisation COVID-19 vaccines page.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
You can find more information about cases in Argentina on the TravelHealthPro website.
