Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

Coronavirus (COVID-19): stay up to date
Cases of coronavirus (COVID-19) have been confirmed in Argentina. See information on measures introduced in Argentina to limit the spread of the virus. Find out how to return to the UK from Argentina
See coronavirus travel advice for guidance on international travel.
Sign up for email alerts for Argentina travel advice.
Argentina has closed its borders to foreign nationals and non-residents entering the country, owing to concerns about the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19). The borders remain open for departures. However, all scheduled international flights have been suspended, although the government is permitting a limited number of exceptional international flights. The FCO strongly advise non-resident British nationals in Argentina to return to the UK as soon as possible. See Return to the UK.
111,638 British nationals visited Argentina in 2018 and most visits are trouble-free.
The most common incidents affecting tourists are distraction thefts, bag snatching, pick pocketing and street robberies. On 14 December 2019 a British tourist was fatally shot and another seriously injured outside their hotel having been targeted by a gang on arrival at Ezeiza International Airport. See Crime
Protests and strikes take place regularly, often without warning, particularly in Buenos Aires. Further large gatherings, protests, demonstrations or marches are planned in the near future. There have also been occasional Falklands-related protests against British interests in Argentina. You should exercise caution in any large gatherings, and avoid all protests, marches and demonstrations. See Political situation
Terrorist attacks in Argentina can’t be ruled out. See Terrorism
UK health authorities have classified Argentina as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For more information and advice, visit the website of the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
If you need to contact the emergency services, call 911 or 101 (police), 107 (ambulance) or 100 (fire).
For English assistance in Buenos Aires, contact the Tourist Police on +54 911 5050 9260/3293 if ringing from a mobile phone or 155 5050 9260/3293 from a local landline (available 24 hours). In Mendoza, contact +54 (0)261 413 2135.
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.
Take out comprehensive travel and medical insurance before you travel. 
