Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for the Dominican Republic on the TravelHealthPro website.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Dominican Republic.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements. You should contact local authorities for information on testing facilities.
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) also provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in the Dominican Republic
The national State of Emergency and curfew will end on Monday 11 October. Until then, a curfew is in place nationwide from 11pm to 5am and transit is permitted for the first two hours of curfew, i.e. until 1am, only in order to travel home.
The provinces of La Altagracia (including Punta Cana) and Distrito Nacional do not have a curfew, because of their high vaccination rates. The Distrito Nacional is a subdivision of the capital city of Santo Domingo. Visitors should plan carefully if they are traveling at night to make sure they do not break curfew by crossing between areas where different rules apply.
Mask-wearing and social distancing are still mandatory in public spaces and private spaces for public use.
There are some limited exceptions to the curfew, including those seeking assistance in a medical emergency, and international passengers and their drivers travelling to and from an airport. You may be arrested by police if you breach curfew, unless you meet one of the approved exemptions.
Changes to COVID measures may happen at short notice. You should monitor local media and comply with any instructions from police or the Dominican authorities. You should follow the Dominican rules listed below and check this page and the British Embassy social media channels on Twitter and Facebook regularly for updates.
it is mandatory to wear a mask in public places or private spaces open to the public
when leaving home everyone should follow social distancing rules (2 metres away from any other person)
public transport will operate at a reduced capacity and those boarding must observe social distancing rules, and wear masks.
The Dominican authorities particularly encourage those over 60 years old or with underlying health conditions to stay at home except for essential trips
The Dominican Republic authorities will seek to prosecute people who breach COVID-19 protocols, including those who break quarantine protocols will result in a serious penalty, up to a maximum fine of RD$100,000 and/or prison sentence.
Further information is available from the Dominican authorities, in English and in Spanish.
International travel
See Entry Requirements for more information about COVID-19 testing requirements to enter the Dominican Republic.
You will need to fill in a COVID Traveller’s Health Affidavit before travel to the Dominican Republic. This forms part of an online form, which includes the COVID Traveller’s Health Affidavit, the Customs Declaration and the International Boarding / Disembarking forms. The form can be completed via the Dominican Republic’s Electronic Ticket Portal, before your journey.
The Dominican Republic’s air borders are open and commercial options are departing to the US, Spain, France and some other countries. If you are returning to the UK, read the travel advice for any country you may be transiting, to check entry/transit requirements, as well as checking UK government requirements.
You will need to observe all social distancing measures if planning travel to the airport. Airports are implementing measures inside the terminals, including social distancing, use of masks and temperature checks. You should arrive in sufficient time and comply with any instructions from police or the Dominican authorities.
During the hours of curfew, international passengers and their vehicle operators / drivers are permitted to travel to and from airports. You should keep your passport and travel documents with you to show to Dominican authorities if required, and allow extra time for your journey if travelling during curfew hours. Contact your travel provider or hotel for further advice if you will be arriving or leaving during the curfew.
Accommodation
Hotels have now reopened and the Dominican Government has set out detailed rules for hotel operations during COVID. You should comply with any government or hotel social distancing measures.
Public places and services
No gatherings of more than ten people are permitted in public spaces, or private spaces open to the public. All public spaces are limited to 50% capacity. Restaurants are limited to a maximum of 50% capacity and no more than six people on a table. In La Altagracia and Distrito Nacional, public spaces and private spaces for public use are limited to 75% capacity and permits are required for large events and gatherings.
The sale and consumption of alcohol in private and public places is prohibited during curfew hours. In La Altagracia and Distrito Nacional the sale and consumption of alcohol are prohibited between midnight and 5am.
Events have been suspended, including sports fixtures, cultural and artistic events, conventions and fairs, and any other events which could lead to concentrations of people.
Entertainment activities and athletic training and sports are permitted only if they can be practiced in strict compliance with social distancing rules and with limits on their percentage capacity. Indoor gyms are open with strict COVID protocols.
Social events or activities that involve the participation of more than 10 people in any area for public use require a permit from the Public Health Ministry. To get this permit, responsible parties should submit a request for authorization in writing, with a minimum of seven days in advance, that must include the general information of the event or activity, including the place, setting, photo of the space and responsible persons. You can submit the request at the Ministry of Public Health’ headquarters or through its Provincial Offices or Health Areas.
Government advice remains that celebrations such as weddings or birthday parties should be postponed, people should stay at home except for work or necessary trips and that everyone should apply hygiene precautions if they go out, washing hands, clothing and shoes when they return home.
Local or regional authorities may impose additional restrictions. You should comply with any instructions or notices, including the closure of beaches or other public areas.
Healthcare in the Dominican Republic
If you develop coronavirus symptoms whilst in the Dominican Republic, you should stay in your home or hotel room and seek medical assistance (contact the hotel’s medical staff if staying in a hotel). Follow the advice of your medical expert and local authorities, on self-isolation or other COVID measures.
For further information and guidance, consult the dedicated government website (in Spanish) or the DR Travel Centre (in English). There is also an information and advice hotline in Spanish that can be reach by dialing *462. There may be a limited number of call operators that can assist in English.
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Dominican Republic.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in the Dominican Republic
We will update this page when the Government of Dominican Republic announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Dominican Republic national vaccination programme started in March 2021 and is using the AstraZeneca, Pfizer-BioNTech and Sinovac vaccines. The Dominican authorities have stated that British nationals who have legal residence status in the Dominican Republic are eligible for vaccination if they choose to join the programme. The Ministry of Health of the Dominican Republic has begun rollout of vaccines. You can register and find out more information about the Dominican Republic national vaccination programme at VacunateRD (only available in Spanish).
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in the Dominican Republic, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
Further information is available from the Dominican authorities, in English and in Spanish. They also have a dedicated helpline in Spanish (call *462 from a Dominican telephone line)
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British Embassy on + 1 809 472 7111. Select option 1 for English, then option 2 for consular emergencies.
