This page has information on travelling to the Dominican Republic. Check what you must do to return to the UK.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport from the UK, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in the Dominican Republic set and enforce entry rules.
All travellers
As of 23 April 2022, you do not need to present a COVID-19 Vaccination Card, PCR, or antigen test to enter the Dominican Republic, regardless of age or vaccination status. Random COVID-19 testing for passengers and crew upon arrival in the Dominican Republic will no longer be performed as standard. However, when required, random testing operations may be performed. Passengers who present their Vaccination Card will be exempted from random testing.
All travellers will need to fill in a COVID Traveller’s Health Affidavit before travel to the Dominican Republic to confirm if you have any coronavirus symptoms and provide your contact details. This is part of an online form, which includes the COVID Traveller’s Health Affidavit, the Customs Declaration and the International Boarding / Disembarking forms and can be completed via the Dominican Republic’s Electronic Ticket Portal, before your journey. Since 1 April 2021 the digital forms are mandatory, see the Viajero Digital website.
The Dominican Republic Travel Center website has further information. The Dominican authorities also provide further information in English and in Spanish.
If you’re fully vaccinated
Entry requirements for the Dominican Republic are the same for all travellers, regardless of COVID-19 vaccination status.
Proof of vaccination status
You don’t need to provide proof of your vaccination status for entry to the Dominican Republic.
If you’re not fully vaccinated
Entry requirements for the Dominican Republic are the same for all travellers, regardless of COVID-19 vaccination status.
If you’ve had COVID-19 in the past year
Entry requirements for the Dominican Republic are the same for all travellers, regardless of whether you have tested positive for COVID-19 in the past year.
Children and young people
There are no specific requirements for children and young people.
If you’re transiting through the Dominican Republic
Transiting is when you pass through one country on the way to your final destination. Entry requirements for the Dominican Republic are the same for all travellers, including those in transit.
Check with your airline before departing.
Exemptions
There are no exemptions to the Dominican Republic’s entry requirements.
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
Check with your travel provider to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Passport validity
If you are visiting the Dominican Republic, your passport should be valid for a minimum of six months from the date you arrive.
Until 31 December 2022, tourists can enter the Dominican Republic with a passport with less than 6 months validity, providing it is valid for the full proposed duration of your stay.
Visas
British Citizens travelling to the Dominican Republic for tourism don’t need a visa.
As of April 2018, the tourism entry tax (previously known as a tourist card) is no longer collected upon arrival and should be included in your air fare. Contact your airline or tour operator if you’re unsure whether you have already paid this fee. The Dominican Republic Embassy website has more information.
On arrival you will normally be granted a 30-day stay. This can be extended to 120 days by paying for an extension when you leave the country. This can be done online at the Dominican Directorate General for Migration website or at the airport on departure. If you’re planning to stay for longer, seek advice from a local lawyer or contact the local Immigration authorities.
As a foreign national you will be required to give your fingerprints and have a photograph taken in order to enter the Dominican Republic.
You must carry a photocopy of your identification (such as a passport), a copy of your entry stamp and proof of onward or return travel at all times, so that you can produce them if you’re asked to do so by the authorities.
Proof of onward or return travel
You may be refused entry if you don’t have proof of onward or return travel.
E-Ticket
All travellers will need to fill in the online entry form before travel to the Dominican Republic, which includes the COVID Traveller’s Health Affidavit, the Customs Declaration and the International Boarding / Disembarking forms and can be completed via the Dominican Republic’s Electronic Ticket Portal, before your journey.
Travelling with children
According to the Dominican Republic authorities, visitors under 18 travelling to the Dominican Republic don’t need written authorisation from their parents, as long as they enter and leave with the same person or people. If visitors between the ages of 13 and 18 are travelling alone, or in a group with no one over 18, then parental authorisation is not required as long as the group remains the same on entry and exit.
Otherwise, a visitor under the age of 18 must carry a sworn affidavit drawn up by a solicitor and signed by the child’s parents or legal guardian(s) authorising their travel. The affidavit will need to be legalised by the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) and the Dominican Republic Embassy.
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British Embassy on + 1 809 472 7111. Select option 1 for English, then option 2 for consular emergencies.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency travel documents (ETDs) are accepted for entry, transit and exit from the Dominican Republic. Any travel document must have at least 6 months’ validity remaining to enter the Dominican Republic.
Returning to the UK
If you are returning to the UK, you should follow any measures implemented by the airport, which may include social distancing, use of masks or temperature checks. You should arrive in sufficient time and comply with any instructions from police or the Dominican authorities.
All passengers departing the Dominican Republic must fill in an online exit form, which includes the COVID-19 Traveller’s Health Affidavit, the Customs Declaration and the International Boarding / Disembarking forms. The form can be completed via the Dominican Republic’s Electronic Ticket Portal, before your journey.
Departure tax to leave the Dominican Republic is US$20. Scheduled airlines include this charge in the price of the tickets. Check with your tour operator or travel provider.
Check what you must do to return to the UK.
