At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Coronavirus
There is an ongoing outbreak of coronavirus (COVID-19) in China, but cases have been confirmed in other countries, including the Dominican Republic.
The Dominican government has introduced measures to limit the spread of the virus. On the evening of 14 March, the Dominican government announced that all flights will be suspended between the Dominican Republic and the UK (as well as the whole of Europe, China, South Korea and Iran). This suspension will come into effect at 6am local time on Monday 16 March and will apply to flights both to and from the Dominican Republic.
On 17 March the Dominican Government announced a national state of emergency and detailed further measures aimed at tackling the spread COVID-19. These measures will be effective from 0600 on 19 March for 15 days. We strongly advise all British Nationals within the Dominican Republic to follow the regulations set out by the Dominican government in full. Key measures include:
Closure of all air, land and sea borders. Ferry flights for foreign nationals wishing to leave the country will continue to operate in accordance with the regulations of the Dominican authorities.
Citizens to limit their own movements to all but essential travel.
All events suspended, including international and national events, sports fixtures, bars, nightclubs and cultural events.
All schools and universities suspended.
Non-essential commercial activities suspended. Supermarkets and pharmacies will remain open.
Restaurants will only offer take away and delivery services
We are aware that some hotels in the Dominican Republic are closing down due to reduced guest numbers. As such they are consolidating all their guests into other hotels where there will be staff to look after them. We are in close contact with the hotels association and monitoring this situation.
A quarantine requirement is being imposed for visitors who have been in any of the listed countries during the previous two weeks. Cruise ships are not being allowed to dock in Dominican ports, with immediate effect.
Information is available (in Spanish) from the Ministry of the Presidency.
The FCO strongly encourage non-resident British nationals in Dominican Republic to consider leaving quickly to avoid difficulties they will face if travel out of the country and the region are further restricted and they are unable to get home.
Additional restrictions have been placed on Dominican students, university students and other citizens who have visited countries with circulation of the virus. Health checks have been put in place at ports, airports and border crossings.
You should comply with additional screening and quarantine measures put in place by the authorities. These regulations may be subject to change at short notice and you should check with your travel provider before your journey.
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
You can find more information about cases in the Dominican Republic on the TravelHealthPro country page.
Medical treatment
Public medical facilities in Dominican Republic are generally limited. Private hospitals offer good standards of care, although they can be expensive. Dentistry is adequate. A good range of medicines is available, including some normally only available on prescription in the UK.
Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation. In some cases, if visitors are not able to pay their hospital bills, they have been prevented from leaving the country until the debt is settled.
If you need emergency medical assistance in Santo Domingo dial 911 and ask for an ambulance. Outside Santo Domingo (e.g. Punta Cana, Puerto Plata) contact the tourist police (1-809-200-3500). If you’re travelling with a tour operator, also contact your representative and/or hotel. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
Cosmetic or elective surgery
Be aware of the risks associated with cosmetic or elective surgery overseas.. Make sure that you do your research and verify the credentials and qualifications of any healthcare providers before you travel.
Health risks
UK health authorities have classified Dominican Republic as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For information and advice about the risks associated with Zika virus, visit the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
Cases of chikungunya virus and dengue fever have been confirmed in Dominican Republic. You should take steps to avoid being bitten by mosquitoes.
