Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

The Dominican Republic government has closed the country’s borders and all international flights have been suspended except “ferry flights” to repatriate foreign nationals.
There are still commercial options to return to the UK from the Dominican Republic.
If you live in the UK and are currently visiting the Dominican Republic, you are strongly advised to return now by commercial means. Don’t risk getting stranded.
UK special charter flights will only operate for priority countries where commercial flights are not possible. You should not assume that these flights will become available in the Dominican Republic because commercial routes are operating. Please do not contact the contracted travel management company if no flight is advertised here.
The Embassy is keeping a record of British visitors currently in the Dominican Republic. If you are a British National who lives in the UK and you are currently trying to get home from the Dominican Republic, please contact the Embassy on UK.inDominicanRepublic@fco.gov.uk with your name, your passport number and your contact details in the Dominican Republic.
Flights
The last direct ferry flight from the Dominican Republic to the UK departed on Thursday 19 March.
JetBlue and Delta are still operating a reduced number of flights from Santo Domingo to New York. JetBlue also has flights scheduled to New York from Punta Cana. Whilst direct onward flights from the USA to the UK are still operating, these are now becoming limited both in frequency and availability.
Alternative routes may be possible transiting via a third country such as the Republic of Ireland or the Netherlands in order to reach the UK. If you wish to leave the Dominican Republic, we strongly advise that you contact your travel provider, travel agent or consult airline websites to search for available flights as soon as possible to make a booking. Please also read the FCO Travel Advice for the USA and any other country you may be transiting.
These JetBlue and Delta routes are the only commercial flights that have the necessary authorisation to depart the Dominican Republic during the current border closures.
We are also aware of two flights departing Santo Domingo to Madrid on 4 and 5 May, organised by the Spanish government and operated by AirEuropa. These flights are open to all EU citizens who are resident in Europe, including UK citizens and those residing in the UK. If you are interested in travelling on one of these flights, please send an email to UK.InDominicanRepublic@fco.gov.uk with the following details:
• Full name (as appears on passport) • Passport number
The British Embassy will provide these details to AirEuropa for consideration. Depending on seat availability, AirEuropa will then directly contact customers put forward by their embassies with more information about the flight operation and price. Please note that providing your details to the British Embassy does not guarantee you will be allocated a seat on the flight.
There are onward travel options to the UK from Madrid, including via third countries. In order to transit through Madrid you must be a resident in the UK or a European Union country and provide proof of onward travel to your country of residence. Please note that individuals accepted onto the flight from Santo Domingo are responsible for booking their own onward travel.
If we become aware of any other commercial flight options, we will publish these on our Travel Advice and social media @UKinDomRep on Facebook and Twitter.
British Nationals may be able to travel to the UK via the United States from the Dominican Republic, providing they hold a valid ESTA. You should consult the ESTA pages to check individual eligibility.
Passengers must have an onward ticket to the UK in order to transit and be able to prove that they have not been in Europe, China or Iran in the past 14 days. Otherwise you may be denied boarding or entry on arrival at a US port. To check remaining available routes, please consult with the airlines JetBlue and Delta or travel providers.
If you book a flight via the USA, please inform the Embassy of your flight details by email at UK.inDominicanRepublic@fco.gov.uk. You should also check travel advice for the USA.
The British Embassy will continue to issue updates on Facebook and Twitter with the latest information on departure options.
You should contact your airline, tour operator and travel insurer to find out what support they can offer.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Travelling to the airport
Please ensure that you observe the curfew (5pm to 6am) when planning your travel to the airport.
On the evening of Monday 13 April, the Dominican government lifted travel restrictions across provincial and municipal borders.
Additional measures and restrictions on movement have been imposed in the municipality of Puerto Plata, beginning on Tuesday 28 April for a period of 7 days. You should comply with any instructions from police or the Dominican authorities. If these measures will affect your journey to the airport, please contact the Embassy urgently on UK.inDominicanRepublic@fco.gov.uk.
See more information and advice about staying where you are if you cannot return to the UK.
Your journey home
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British Embassy on + 1 809 472 7111. Select option 1 for English, then option 2 for consular emergencies.
The Embassy cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone.
Further information
Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British Embassy on Twitter and Facebook.
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
