

Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.  
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Dominican Republic
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in the Dominican Republic, attacks cannot be ruled out.
Political demonstrations
Political demonstrations sometimes happen, although not usually near tourist areas. Take care not to get caught up in demonstrations or large gatherings and follow the instructions of the Dominican Republic authorities.
Crime
The crime rate in the Dominican Republic is high. Incidents range from opportunistic bag-snatching and pickpocketing to violent crime and carjacking.
Stay alert when on the street or driving to the risk of drive-by robberies. Thieves on motorcycles snatch bags and valuables from pedestrians and sometimes reach through the windows of cars at red lights to steal belongings.
There have been incidents where foreigners have been mugged at gunpoint or knifepoint during the daytime while walking in residential districts.
Attackers may be armed, even if you cannot see a weapon.
Protecting yourself and your belongings 
You can take steps to reduce your personal risk by:
avoiding remote areas, particularly after dark
not wearing expensive jewellery or carrying large amounts of cash
keeping smartphones and other electronic items out of sight
not leaving your bags or other possession on chairs or tables in restaurants and bars
keeping car windows shut and doors locked
carrying your bags on the side away from the road
If you’re robbed, do not fight back or do anything that puts you at greater risk.
Credit card crime
Credit card cloning and identity theft are a risk in the Dominican Republic. Keep your payment card in view when paying or pay in cash.
Sexual assault
Incidents of assault, rape and sexual aggression against foreigners have occurred, including at beach resorts. In some cases, hotel employees or fellow guests have been implicated.
You can take steps to reduce your risk:
avoid walking alone at night
do not leave drinks unattended
be wary when dealing with strangers, and anyone offering rides or other invitations
If you’re a victim of a sexual assault or other crime, report it immediately to the British Embassy in Santo Domingo. Consular staff can help:
report the incident with local authorities
explain the process
translate for you if there’s a language barrier
See FCDO’s guidance for victims of rape and sexual assault abroad.
You must formally report a crime to the Dominican Republic authorities before you leave the country so they can investigate.
Laws and cultural differences
Personal ID
Always carry copies of the photo page of your passport and entry stamp with you.
Illegal drugs and prison sentences
There are severe penalties for all drug offences. Possession of even small quantities of any drug can lead to a fine and a prison sentence. Pack your own luggage and do not carry anything through customs for anyone else.
If you’re arrested for drug offences your case can take several years to progress through the judicial process, during which you’re likely to be held in detention. If you’re given a prison sentence, you will serve the whole sentence in the Dominican Republic.
LGBT+ travellers
Attitudes towards the LGBT+ community are mostly conservative throughout the Caribbean. Although same-sex sexual relations are legal in the Dominican Republic, same-sex marriages are not legally recognised. Showing affection in public may attract unwanted and negative attention.
Nearly all Dominican hotels welcome LGBT+ travellers, although you should check when you book.  
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Outdoor activities and adventure tourism
Providers of recreational and adventure tourism may not meet UK safety standards. Check safety standards and make sure you’re insured if you take part in activities like water sports, quad biking or horse riding.
Swimming safety
Lifeguards may not be present at swimming pools or on beaches. Safety and rescue equipment may not be available.
The sea can be dangerous, especially during the hurricane season, which runs from June to November. Follow instructions about sea conditions and warning systems. 
See water safety on holiday from the Royal Life Saving Society.
Transport risks
Road travel
If you’re planning to drive in the Dominican Republic, see information on driving abroad.
You can use a UK photocard driving licence to drive in the Dominican Republic for up to 3 months. If you still have a paper driving licence, you may need to update it to a photocard licence or get the correct version of the international driving permit (IDP) as well.
For longer visits, apply for a local driving licence. See Living in the Dominican Republic for more information.  
Hire car companies often have stricter requirements for their customers, such as a year of driving experience, a higher minimum age and holding an IDP. 
Road safety
The Dominican Republic has a high death rate from road traffic accidents. Road accidents happen often, especially during holiday periods like Christmas and Easter.
Risks you may face include:
other drivers not following traffic laws, weaving from lane to lane and rarely signalling
vehicles being in poor condition
drunk driving
The quality of roads varies, although the majority of motorways connecting cities and tourist areas are in good condition.
Driving outside the main cities at night can be dangerous because of poor lighting, animals or pedestrians on the road and cars driving without headlights.
If police stop you for a traffic violation, they may issue you with a fine. They should not ask you for money directly. Pay the fine online on Infracciones de transito.
Motorbikes and scooters
Take particular care if riding a motorbike or scooter. The Dominican Republic has a high death rate from road accidents involving motorbikes and scooters.  
Traffic accidents
If you’re involved in an accident, call the police and wait at the scene. If you’re detained because of a road accident, ask the police to contact the British Embassy in Santo Domingo.
Drivers involved in an accident that causes serious injury or death will be taken into police custody until circumstances have been investigated. This will happen even if the driver appears not to be at fault.
The telephone number for national roadside assistance is +1 829 689 1000.
Reporting an accident
If you’re involved in a road accident, you must file a report with the Dominican Republic authorities.
If the accident did not cause injuries and happened in Santo Domingo or Santiago, you should register it at an accident reporting centre such as La Casa del Conductor or El Centro del Automovilista (both in Spanish). These are government centres with English-speaking agents and representatives from the police and insurance companies.
Talk to your insurance company for guidance on which centre you should use to report an accident.
If the accident occurs in any other part of Dominican Republic, file a report at the nearest police station.
Taxis
Taxis can be cheap but many are in poor condition. Use an authorised airport or hotel taxi service, or book from a registered provider. Ride-hailing apps are widely available.
Motorbike taxis (‘motoconchos’) are often driven badly and do not always provide passengers with a helmet.
Public transport
Public buses and ‘carros publicos’ (shared cars that pick up passengers) are often uninsured, not registered and poorly maintained.
Private companies operate good bus services between cities.
Extreme weather and natural disasters
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards. 
Hurricanes
The hurricane season in the Caribbean normally runs from June to November. Monitor local news and check the World Meteorological Association weather reports for the Dominican Republic and the US National Hurricane Center’s regional map.
Spanish language alerts are available from the Dominican Emergency Management Centre (COE) via their mobile app ‘AlertaCOE’, or their Twitter account.
Hurricanes can cause localised flooding and damage to buildings. In recent years this has affected the north and east of the country.
Earthquakes and tsunamis 
Earthquakes are a risk in the Dominican Republic. If an earthquake happens, follow the advice of the local authorities. 
The US Federal Emergency Management Agency website has advice about what to do before, during and after an earthquake.
There is a risk of tsunamis from earthquakes at sea. Follow the instructions of the local authorities if there are warnings of an approaching tsunami. 
