This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Dominican Republic as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Dominican Republic to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Dominican Republic
For information on entering Dominican Republic, see Entry Requirements
A national State of Emergency was declared on Monday 20 July for a period of 45 days and curfews are now in place nationwide. The curfew times vary for different regions of the country, as follows:
Curfew from 7.00pm to 5.00am Monday – Friday and from 5.00pm – 5.00am on Saturday and Sunday in the following regions:
Santo Domingo
Distrito Nacional
Santiago
San Cristobal
La Vega
Puerto Plata
Duarte
San Pedro de Macoris
La Romana
San Juan de la Maguana
La Altagracia (which includes the tourist areas of Punta Cana and Bavaro)
Azua
Monseñor Nouel
Sánchez Ramirez
Maria Trinidad Sánchez
Curfew from 8.00pm to 5.00am every day for all other areas, including:
Espaillat
Peravia
Barahona
Monte Plata
Valverde
Hermanas Mirabal
Monte Cristi
Samaná
Bahoruco
Hato Mayor
El Seibo
Dajabón
Santiago Rodriguez
San José de Ocoa
Elias Piña
Independencia
Pedernales
These areas and curfews could change at short notice. You should monitor local news or ask your travel provider for advice.
There are some limited exceptions to the curfew, including those seeking assistance in a medical emergency and international passengers and their drivers travelling to and from an airport (see “Return to the UK”).
There are also exemptions for employees travelling for work in certain sectors, including: health professionals; security staff; accredited members of the press; energy, waste, water and telecommunications services; transport and distribution of goods and fuel; food, medical and pharmaceutical industries; maritime and air transport; funerary services; the hotel sector, mining or designated free-trade zones.
Further information is available from the Dominican authorities, including www.coronavirus.gob.do (in Spanish).
The Ministry of Health has announced a health emergency and issued a number of measures to contain the spread of the virus.
You should continue to follow the COVID-19 social-distancing restrictions listed below and to check this page and the British Embassy social media channels on Twitter and Facebook regularly for updates. You should comply with any instructions from police or the Dominican authorities.
it is mandatory to wear a mask in public places
no economic, social or recreational activities can take place between 8pm and 5am every day. There are a limited number of exceptions to this for particular types of business and political activity and curfew requirements must be respected. You should contact the Dominican authorities for further information.
when leaving home everyone should follow social distancing rules (1.5 metres away from any other person)
all schools and universities are closed
all events have been suspended, including sports fixtures, cultural and artistic events, conventions and fairs, and any other events which could lead to concentrations of people
no events can take place with members of the public in stadiums, sports arenas or similar venues
entertainment activities and athletic training and sports are permitted if they can be practiced in strict compliance with social distancing rules
government advice is that celebrations such as weddings or birthday parties should be postponed, people should stay at home except for work or necessary trips and that everyone should apply hygiene precautions if they go out, washing hands, clothing and shoes when they return home
the Dominican authorities particularly encourage those over 60 years old or with underlying health conditions to stay at home except for essential trips
public transport will operate at a reduced capacity and those boarding must observe social distancing rules, wear masks and remain silent
Local or regional authorities may impose additional restrictions. You should comply any instructions or notices, including the closure of beaches or other public areas.
Accommodation
Hotels have now started to reopen, with a limited number of rooms available and the Dominican Government has set out rules for hotel operations during COVID. You should comply with any government or hotel social distancing measures.
Visas
During the current coronavirus measures, you can extend a tourist visa for up to 120 days. This can be done online at the Dominican Directorate General for Migration website or at the airport on departure.
Health
If you develop coronavirus symptoms whilst in the Dominican Republic, you should seek medical assistance and follow the advice of local authorities. Should you test positive for coronavirus, you should self-isolate for a period of 14 days. For further information and guidance, consult the dedicated government website. There is also an information and advice hotline that can be reach by dialing *462. Both of these services are in Spanish. There may be a limited number of call operators that can assist in English.
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Dominican Republic.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
The Dominican government set up a dedicated coronavirus website and helpline (call *462) to provide more information on the Dominican Republic’s response to coronavirus. Both of these services operate in Spanish. The helpline is experiencing a high volume of calls and is likely to be under pressure.
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
