The FCDO advises against all but essential travel to:
the whole of the Dominican Republic based on the current assessment of COVID-19 risks.
The Dominican government has suspended all inbound passenger flights from the UK until Sunday 17 January 2021. A temporary travel restriction applies to all travellers from the United Kingdom arriving to the Dominican Republic from third countries until 17 January 2021. Further updates will be published when they are available. If you were planning to travel to or transit through the Dominican Republic, you should check with your travel provider.
The Dominican government has introduced a mandatory seven-day quarantine period for travellers with journeys originating in the UK or those who have previously been in the UK within two weeks of arrival in the Dominican Republic. Travellers will be required to undertake a PCR test while in quarantine.
The FCDO is not advising those already travelling in the Dominican Republic to leave at this time. Travelers should follow the advice of the local authorities on how best to protect themselves and others, including any measures that they bring in to control the virus. You should contact your tour operator or airline if you have any questions about your return journey.
Travel to the Dominican Republic is subject to entry restrictions
On arrival, you will need to self-declare if you have COVID-19 symptoms and have your temperature tested and may have to take a rapid diagnostic test
See Entry requirements for more information before you plan to travel.
Preparing for your return journey to the UK
If you’re returning to the UK from overseas, you will need to:
provide your journey and contact details before you travel
check if you need to self-isolate on your return
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
If you’re planning travel to the Dominican Republic, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section for more information.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) guidance on foreign travel insurance.
Almost 190,000 British nationals visited the Dominican Republic in 2018. Most visits are trouble-free, but there are incidents of crime and violence. See Crime
The hurricane season normally runs from June to November. You should monitor local and international weather updates from the US National Hurricane Center and follow the advice of local authorities, including any evacuation orders. Spanish language alerts are available from the Dominican Emergency Management Centre (COE) via their mobile app ‘AlertaCOE’, or on their Twitter account. See Natural disasters
Be cautious when travelling in Dominican Republic. Driving standards are variable. Take extra care if you’re travelling between Haiti and the Dominican Republic by road. There have been armed robberies in the Dominican Republic on roads close to the border with Haiti. See Road travel
Don’t become involved with illegal drugs of any kind. There are severe penalties for all drug offences. A number of British nationals are serving prison sentences in the Dominican Republic for attempting to traffic drugs. See Local laws and customs
Cases of chikungunya virus and dengue fever have been confirmed in the Dominican Republic. You should take steps to avoid being bitten by mosquitoes. See Health
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in the Dominican Republic, attacks can’t be ruled out. See Terrorism
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.
The number for the English speaking tourist police (CESTUR) is +1-809-200-3500. The number for emergency services is 911. This does not have 100% coverage across the country, so if you cannot reach 911, call the tourist police for help.
The Overseas Business Risk service offers information and advice for British companies operating overseas on how to manage political, economic, and business security-related risks.
