Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for the Philippines on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
Commercial flights are operating to and from the Philippines. Check with your airline or travel company for the latest information.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in the Philippines.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements. You should contact local authorities for information on testing facilities. Access to this link is currently only available inside the Philippines. If you are based outside the Philippines then you can contact the Philippine Department of Health directly as follows +63 (0)2 8651 7800 local 5003-5004 or +63 (0)91 9160 1418 or via email to callcenter@doh.gov.ph.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in the Philippines
Measures have been introduced by the Philippine government to prevent the spread of coronavirus; these differ across the country.
The Community Quarantine level in the National Capital Region (Metro Manila), Bulacan and Rizal is General Community Quarantine (GCQ) with some additional restrictions and is in effect until 15 July.
In these areas there is likely to be limited capacity in restaurants and other hospitality venues, as well as more stringent rules on business operations.
The following areas have been placed under General Community Quarantine until 31 July:
Cordillera Administrative Region:
Baguio
Ifugao
Region 2:
City of Santiago
Isabela
Nueva Vizcaya
Quirino
Region 4-A:
Batangas
Quezon
Laguna
Cavite
(Laguna and Cavite have heightened restrictions until 15 July)
Region 6:
Guimaras
Aklan
Bacolod City
Negros Occidental
Antique
Capiz
Region 9:
Zamboanga Sibugay
City of Zamboanga
Region 10:
Iligan City
Caraga:
Agusan Del Norte
Surigao Del Norte
Agusan Del Sur
BARMM:
Cotabato City
Region 12:
General Santos City
Sultan Kudarat
Sarangani
Cotabato
South Cotabato
The following areas have been placed under the stricter Modified Enhanced Community Quarantine until 30 June:
Region 2:
Cagayan City
Cordillera Administrative Region:
Apaya
Region 3:
Bataan
Region 4-A:
Lucena City
Region 4-B:
Puerto Princesa
Region 5:
Naga City
Region 6:
Iloilo City, lloilo
Region 7:
Negros Oriental
Region 9:
Zamboanga del Sur
Zamboanga del Norte
Region 10:
Cagayan de Oro City
Region 11:
Davao City
Davao Oriental
Davao Occidental
Davao De Oro
Davao Del Sur
Davao del Norte
CARAGA:
Butuan City
Dinagat Islands
Surigao Del Sur
The rest of the country will be under Modified General Community Quarantine (MGCQ) until 31 July.
The wearing of face shields while on public and private transport is now mandatory. This includes but is not limited to trains, buses, jeepneys, taxis, boats and ships. The order also includes aeroplanes. You should check with your airline in advance whether they will provide a shield or whether you need to bring your own.
You should closely monitor announcements from local authorities to understand the latest restrictions and regulations where you’re situated, and their impact on your ability to travel and access essential services. Check the requirements of your local authority such as barangay clearance, health certificate or travel authority for any travel outside of your residence, including to the airport. For further information on rules and restrictions relating to quarantine classifications, visit the Department for Health website.
Travel to the airport
Since November 2020, some airports including Ninoy Aquino International Airport (NAIA) have required passengers to download the ‘Traze Contact Tracing’ app prior to entry. You can find further information on the NAIA facebook page.
If you plan to take a commercial flight but are experiencing difficulty travelling to the airport due to community quarantine restrictions, the British Embassy can provide a letter to facilitate your passage through checkpoints. You can submit your request to our Consular team via the web contact form. You can also seek assistance from your local Department of Tourism office, which may be able to offer advice on transport options or hotels.
The Philippine government has confirmed that foreign nationals will be able to leave the Philippines at any time during the period of enhanced quarantine. See Entry requirements.
There is disruption to travel routes both domestically and across the region. Check with your travel provider for updates.
Healthcare in the Philippines
For contact details for English speaking doctors, visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in the Philippines.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in the Philippines
We will update this page when the Government of the Philippines announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Philippines national vaccination programme started in March 2021 and is using the AstraZeneca, Janssen (Johnson and Johnson), Pfizer-BioNTech, Moderna, Sinovac and Sputnik V. The Government of the Philippines has stated that British nationals resident in the Philippines are eligible for vaccination if they choose to join the programme, on the same priority basis as Filipino nationals. Registration for vaccines will take place at a local level and you should contact your Local Government Unit for further information. The Philippines Department of Health has published Frequently Asked Questions about COVID vaccines in the Philippines.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in the Philippines, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
