This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Philippines set and enforce entry rules. For further information contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to. You should also consider checking with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Entry rules in response to coronavirus (COVID-19)
Entry to the Philippines
The Philippine Bureau of Immigration maintains a traffic light system which determines entry rules: red list countries are considered high risk and currently only Filipino nationals returning pursuant to government-initiated programmes or part of non-government repatriation programmes and special commercial flights are permitted entry from those countries. The list can change at short notice so please consult the Bureau of Immigration website in advance of planned travel. For more information, see IATF Resolution 136.
The United Kingdom is on the “Yellow” list. See IATF Resolution 141B for the latest list.
The Philippine Inter-Agency Task Force on the Management of Emerging Infectious Diseases currently advises that the following passengers are permitted entry to the Philippines:
Filipino citizens, including those with an Identification Certificate (IC) as proof of recognition as a Filipino citizen or as proof of retention/reacquisition of Philippine citizenship under RA9225;
Foreign nationals with valid and existing visas at time of entry;
Foreign nationals allowed entry under the Balikbayan Program (RA6768) provided they are nationals from non-visa required countries under EO408: a) Former Filipino citizens, together with their foreign spouses and children regardless of age, who are travelling with them; and b) Filipino citizens’ spouses and children, regardless of age, who are travelling with them
Foreign nationals who are holders of valid and existing Special Resident and Retirees Visa (SRRV)
Foreign nationals who are holders of a valid Section 9(a) visa, provided they present, upon arrival, an entry exemption document issued by the Department of Foreign Affairs
The Philippine Government currently advises that foreign spouses, parent(s) and/or children of Filipino citizens who hold valid 9(a) visas are permitted to enter the country without needing an entry exemption document. See IATF Resolution 128.
Demonstrating your COVID-19 status
The Philippines will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 recovery and vaccination record. You should follow the rules for fully vaccinated travellers depending on the country risk classifications as determined by the Philippine Government.
Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination.
For travellers fully vaccinated in the Philippines, either your VaxCertPH digital vaccination certificate or Bureau of Quarantine issued International Certificate of Vaccination (ICV) is acceptable as proof of vaccination.
Quarantine requirements for fully vaccinated travellers
The Philippines’ Government Resolution 1490-A explains the current entry rules for vaccinated and non-vaccinated persons.
Fully vaccinated travellers arriving from Yellow list countries must provide a negative Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) test taken within 72 hours prior to departure from the country of origin. You must pre-book accommodation in an accredited quarantine hotel for at least 3 days. You will need to undergo an RT-PCR test on the 3rd day of quarantine; if the test is negative you will be discharged from the quarantine facility but must self-monitor for any symptoms until the 14th day after your arrival. If you do not arrive with a RT-PCR test result then you must spend at least 5 days in a quarantine facility when you will undergo an RT-PCR test. If the result is negative then you will be discharged for home quarantine until the 10th day after your arrival.
Fully vaccinated travellers arriving from Green list countries must provide a negative Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) test taken within seventy-two hours (72 hrs) prior to departure from the country of origin. You do not have to pre book a facility-based quarantine but must self-monitor for any symptoms until the fourteenth (14th) day with the first day being the date of arrival.
Quarantine requirements for unvaccinated or not fully vaccinated travellers
Travellers arriving from yellow list countries who are not fully vaccinated, or whose vaccination status cannot be verified, must pre-book accommodation in an accredited quarantine hotel. You will need to undergo an RT-PCR test on the 7th day of quarantine; if the test is negative you will be allowed to undergo home quarantine until the 14th day after your arrival. You are considered fully vaccinated two or more weeks after receiving the second dose in a 2-dose series, or two or more weeks after receiving a single-dose vaccine. The pre-booked accommodation in a quarantine hotel accredited by the Department of Tourism shall be presented for initial check at the immigration counters. Those who fail to present proof of pre-booked accommodation shall be denied entry and risk being boarded immediately on the next return flight.
Those arriving from Green list countries and who are not fully vaccinated, those whose vaccination status cannot be independently validated, and those vaccinated but fail to comply with the above test-before-travel requirements must pre-book accommodation in an accredited quarantine hotel. You will need to undergo an RT-PCR test on the 5th day of quarantine; if the test is negative you will be allowed to self-monitor until the fourteenth (14th) day of arrival with the date of arrival being the first day.
Travelling with Children (from a Green list country)
Unvaccinated or partially vaccinated minor children traveling with their fully vaccinated parent/s or guardian/s shall be required to observe the quarantine protocols corresponding to their vaccination status. A parent/guardian shall accompany the child in the quarantine facility for the full term of the latter’s facility-based quarantine period.
Travelling with Children (from a Yellow list country)
To note, children travelling from a Yellow list country have to follow the same rules as adults coming from a Yellow list country.
Foreign nationals who were cleared for entry but subsequently found to have presented counterfeit or fraudulent pre-booked accommodation upon validation by the Department of Tourism, or those who violate the testing and quarantine protocols of the Department of Health, are subject to deportation.
Visas
As long as you have a valid visa you will be allowed to remain in the country, but will need to observe the local government rules if your present location is under quarantine.
If your tourist visa expired during the ECQ period
You can apply for an extension, without penalty, up to 30 days after the lifting of the Enhanced Community Quarantine (ECQ). If you have overstayed and are trying to leave the country, you can arrange a visa extension at international airports. There may be a standard fee in order to extend the visa but no penalty fee will be applied.
If your visa expired before the ECQ and you have been in the Philippines for more than 12 months
Any fines and penalties will need to be settled in a Bureau of Immigration (BI) sub-port office. The list of BI sub-port offices may be found at the Bureau of Immigration website.
If your visa expired before the ECQ and you have been in the Philippines for less than 12 months
Any fines and penalties may be settled at the airport before your departure.
Emigration Clearance Certificate (ECC)
Holders of Temporary Visitor Visa who have stayed in the Philippines for six months or more or holders of Immigrant and Non-Immigrant visas with valid ACR I-Cards who are leaving the country temporarily must secure an Emigration Clearance Certificate (ECC) at least 72 hours before leaving the country to avoid being denied departure. You should refer to the Bureau of Immigration website for instructions, and call +63 (02) 8465 2400 for advice if you can settle this at the airport before your departure.
All ACR I cardholders generally need to pay for the ECC upon departure. Those with approved visas but who are yet to receive their ACR I cards can show their receipt at the airport. Foreigners with approved visa applications which have not yet been issued can present their valid passport, DOJ endorsement or Certification from the approving office and receipt.
Travel Pass
From 1 March 2021, anyone holding a visa issued by the Department of Justice (DoJ), the Board of Investments (BoI), the Philippine Retirement Authority (PRA) and the Philippine Economic Zone Authority (PEZA) must obtain a travel pass from the Department that issued their visa in order to leave the Philippines. Anyone holding an ECC issued by the Bureau of Immigration is exempt from this requirement.
Regular entry requirements
Visas
You can enter the Philippines without a visa for an initial period of 30 days. You can also get a tourist visa from the Philippine Embassy before you travel, which will allow an initial 59 day stay.
You can apply to extend your stay at the offices of the Bureau of Immigration. Overstaying without the proper authority is a serious matter and can lead to detention pending payment of outstanding fees and fines and voluntary deportation at your own expense. The British Embassy is aware of cases where visitors trying to extend their stay in the Philippines by regular renewals of tourist visas have been challenged on arrival by Philippine immigration officials. If you wish to stay long-term in the Philippines, make sure you do so in full accordance with Philippine immigration regulations.
Annual Returns for registered foreign nationals
All registered foreign nationals are required to report in person to the Bureau of Immigration and its office within the first sixty (60) days of every calendar year. Please visit the Bureau of Immigration for more details.
Evidence of onward travel
Entry to the Philippines may be refused if you’re unable to produce evidence of return or onward travel - for example an onward or return air ticket.
Passport validity
Your passport should be valid for the proposed duration of your stay. No additional period of validity beyond this is needed.
Departure tax
If you’re leaving the country from Cebu Mactan airport you must pay a departure tax of 850 pesos in local currency or the equivalent in US dollars. There’s no longer a departure tax at Manila airport. This information is subject to change and you should check with local authorities before you travel.
Visiting Boracay Island
If you’re planning to visit Boracay Island, you will need to have evidence of a confirmed booking with an accredited hotel. You should take local advice on documentation and port of entry to the island before you travel.
Living, working or studying in the Philippines
If you intend to live, work, or study in the Philippines you’ll need to have certain UK documents (eg birth certificates, marriage certificates, UK police certificates, school documents) legalised by the FCDO Legalisation Office. These documents do not need to be legalised or authenticated by the Philippine Embassy in London. Alternatively, the requesting local authority may wish to verify the Apostille certificate issued by the Legalisation Office at https://www.gov.uk/verify-apostille.
Children travelling to the Philippines without their parents
Non-Filipino children under the age of 15, who are not travelling with a parent or joining a parent in the Philippines, must apply for a Waiver of Exclusion Ground (WEG) for entry into the Philippines. You can do this at the Philippine Embassy in London or on arrival through the Bureau of Immigration. For either application, you will need to submit the right documentation and pay a fee. For more information and details of payment, visit the Department of Foreign Affairs’ website
If a minor under the age of 15 is travelling to visit a parent they should carry a copy of their parents’ resident visa.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are valid for entry, airside transit and exit from the Philippines. If you plan to use an ETD to enter Philippines, the ETD should be valid for 6 months from the date of arrival and have a valid Philippine visa. Check entry requirements with the nearest Philippine Embassy before you travel.
If you apply for an ETD from the British Embassy in Manila, you should get the necessary stamps from the Bureau of Immigration and confirm your Philippine visa is up to date before attempting to leave the Philippines otherwise you’re likely to face problems at the point of departure.
