At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Coronavirus
There is an ongoing outbreak of coronavirus (COVID-19). The virus originated in Wuhan City, Hubei Province in China, but cases have been confirmed in other parts of China and in other countries, including the Philippines.
The Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advises against all but essential travel to the whole of the Philippines due to impacts on British Nationals of government imposed measures being taken to reduce the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
From 23:59 (local time) on 22 March, the Philippine Bureau of Immigration will restrict the entry of foreign nationals to the Philippines in response to the coronavirus outbreak. British nationals will no longer be able to receive a visa on arrival and will not be able to enter the Philippines until further notice. Foreign spouses and children travelling with a Filipino national and members of international organisations already accredited to the Philippines will be exempt from this restriction.
An ‘Enhanced community quarantine’ has been imposed across Luzon Island until April 14. This will affect British Nationals’ ability to travel and access essential services, following the shutdown of all public transportation. Other areas of the Philippines have also announced their own local quarantine arrangements. This is an evolving situation, and you are advised to follow the announcements of local authorities across the country. The Philippine Government has confirmed that foreign nationals will be able to leave the Philippines at any time during the period of enhanced quarantine.
If you are in Luzon you will be permitted to travel to the nearest international airport within 24 hours prior to your scheduled departure, provided you have proof of scheduled international travel (i.e. travel itinerary or eticket). Outside of this 24 hour period you will be required to adhere to local quarantine restrictions.
There is disruption to travel routes both domestically and across the region. Check with your travel provider for updates.
As long as you have a valid visa you will be allowed to remain in the country, but will be required to observe the local government rules if your present location is under quarantine.
Our advice does not suggest that people should leave the Philippines if they consider the restrictions on movement will not impact them severely enough to make them want to leave.
The Philippine government has declared a public health emergency following the emergence of local transmission of COVID-19. On 12 March, the Philippine government announced Code Red Sublevel 2 in response to COVID-19. This imposes restrictions including social distancing requirements across Metro Manila. From 15th March travel to and from Metro Manila will be restricted for a period of 30 days.
Many local government units (including in Metro Manila) have announced overnight curfews (most commonly between 2000 and 0500). The situation remains uncertain and amendments to the restrictions continue to be announced. You should take local advice on what restrictions are in place wherever you are in the Philippines and follow the instructions of local authorities
The Philippine Department for Health and the Bureau of Immigration are issuing information about the situation on their websites. If you’re unclear about any aspect of the entry requirements, or you need further reassurance, you should contact your airline or nearest Philippine Embassy.
Further advice on coronavirus (COVID-19) is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
Health risks
UK health authorities have classified the Philippines as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For information and advice about the risks associated with Zika virus, visit the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
Mosquito-borne illnesses like dengue fever, Japanese encephalitis (JE) and chikungunya virus occur all year round.
There’s a heightened risk of dengue fever during the rainy season (June to October). The Philippines Department of Health declared a national dengue epidemic on 6 August 2019. You should take appropriate precautions to avoid being bitten by mosquitoes.
Medical treatment
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 911 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
The availability of medical care varies across the Philippines, and may not meet the standards of care in the UK. Although adequate in major cities, medical care is limited in more remote areas. Even some of the more popular tourist destinations have limited and basic medical provisions. Many places do not have hospitals nearby or easy access to emergency medical care, which may result in a delay when seeking urgent medical attention in an emergency.
Private hospital treatment and medical transport can be too expensive for many people, eg the daily cost in intensive care units can be more than £1,000. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad, medical transport and repatriation.
