Typhoons
Around 20 typhoons hit the Philippines each year. Most typhoons occur from June to November. Typhoon Odette, known internationally as Rai, has intensified and is now classified as a Super Typhoon. It made landfall in the Philippines on 16 December and will bring heavy wind and rain. There may be flooding and landslides. You should follow the advice of local authorities, and monitor the progress of storms on the websites of the Philippines state weather agency, the Philippines state weather agency, the Philippines Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Council and typhoon.com, or follow @Typhoon2k on Twitter.
See our tropical cyclones page for advice about what to do if you’re caught up in a storm.
Earthquakes
The Philippines is in an earthquake zone.
To learn more about what to do before, during and after an earthquake, see the website of the US Federal Emergency Management Agency. You can find more information about earthquakes on the Philippine Institute for Volcanology and Seismology (PHIVOLCS) website.
Volcanoes
There are numerous volcanoes in the Philippines, any of which can erupt without warning. Sudden steam and ash explosions may occur at any time. . Check news reports and follow local advice before travelling to volcanic areas. Avoid volcanic areas during and immediately after heavy rainfall when there’s increased risk of lava flows. You can find more information about volcanoes on the Philippine Institute for Volcanology and Seismology (PHIVOLCS) website.
On 1 July, the Philippine Institute of Volcanology and Seismology (PHIVOLCS) raised the alert status of Taal volcano from Alert Level 2 to alert Level 3 following a phreatomagmatic eruption. In light of this change, PHIVOLCS has recommended that Taal Volcano Island and high-risk barangays in Agoncillo and Laurel be evacuated. You should follow updates on the PhiVolcs official website.
The eruptive activity of the Mayon volcano in Albay Province (Bicol region) has reduced since 2018, although it remains at a moderate level of unrest with a risk of sudden eruptions, lava collapses and ash fall. The Philippine Institute of Volcanology and Seismology (PHIVOLCS) has lowered the alert to level 2 but an exclusion zone remains in place. If you’re in Albay Province, you should follow the advice of the local authorities, including the advice not to enter the designated danger zone. You should remain vigilant and follow developments on the PHIVOLCS website.
Ash plumes can affect air quality and have an impact on health. A properly fitted face mask may provide some protection. If you have any pre-existing respiratory conditions, you might be at increased risk of triggering or worsening your symptoms. Additional advice on the potential health hazards can found on the International Volcanic Health Hazard Network website .
The capacity of the Philippine emergency and rescue services to deal with large natural disasters is limited.
