Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

There are commercial options to return to the UK.
On 28 April, the UK will also operate a special flight from Manila to London, with feeder flights from Iloilo, Cebu, Tacloban and Davao and coaches across mainland Luzon.
Commercial flights
There remains widespread disruption to international travel routes, and domestic flights are currently suspended.
The following airlines are operating international flights from Manila Ninoy Aquino International Airport with connections to the UK:
Qatar Airways to London Heathrow, Manchester and Edinburgh, via Doha
Korean Air to London Heathrow, via Seoul Incheon
Gulf Air to London Heathrow, via Bahrain
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Travel to departure airports for commercial flights
Resolution No.15 of the Philippines Inter-Agency Task Force grants that all stranded foreign nationals can travel to and from national government facilities such as airports, ferries, bus terminals etc.
If you plan to take a commercial flight but are experiencing difficulty travelling to the airport due to community quarantine restrictions, the British Embassy can provide a letter to facilitate your passage through checkpoints.
Contact the British Embassy Manila at ukinthephilippines@fco.gov.uk. You can also seek assistance from your local Department of Tourism office, which may be able to offer advice on transport options or hotels.
UK special flights
On 28 April, the UK will operate special flights from Iloilo, Cebu, Tacloban and Davao to Manila, and coaches across mainland Luzon. These operate before a special flight from Manila to London for British tourists, short term visitors and their direct dependants to return to the UK.
the cost of the journey is £800 per person
to be eligible for this flight, you must be normally resident in the UK. Eligibility will be checked before tickets are issued
If you wish to travel, register for tickets on the CTM website as soon as possible. Tickets will not be on sale at the airport. Do not travel to the airport without a confirmed ticket. The website will close to new bookings at 7pm (local time) on 26 April.
To make a booking, you will need:
full passport and contact details for each traveller you are registering
your UK home address and postcode
your means of payment, such as credit or debit card details
If you have difficulty booking online, send an SMS text message with your full name to the CTM team on +44 (0) 786-009-3016, and their team will contact you to provide assistance.
If you cannot pay the cost of the ticket, send an SMS with your full name to the CTM team on +44 (0)7537 416 127 and their team will contact you to provide assistance. If you have exhausted all other options available to you for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government to cover the cost of the ticket. You would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. CTM is a commercial partner of the FCO and authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
You may find it helpful to read our guide to eligibility and the booking process for special charter flights.
Travel to departure airports for UK special flights
The British Embassy Manila is working with the Department of Transport and local authorities to identify transport options for those with confirmed bookings to access airports.
You should note that:
the Embassy may need to share your contact and location details with the Philippines Department of Tourism, and Local Government Units. If you would like to return to the UK on these flights, but do not wish for your information to be shared, notify the Embassy via ukinthephilippines@fco.gov.uk.
once flight bookings are confirmed by CTM, you will receive a letter from the British Embassy confirming your right to travel to access these flights. You should carry this letter when you travel.
using a face mask or an improvised face covering (e.g. do-it-yourself mask, handkerchief, scarf to cover nose and mouth) is now mandatory in many areas in the Philippines
Flight Timetable
Here are the updated flight details for the sweeper flights to Manila and the special flight to the UK on 28 April. Please note the change to Terminal 1 NAIA Manila for the flight to London:
Cebu - Tacloban (2P4236) departing Mactan Cebu airport at 07:30, arriving into Tacloban airport at 08:20
Tacloban - Manila (2P4982) departing Tacloban airport at 08:45, arriving into NAIA Manila at 10:30
Davao - Manila (2P4812) departing Davao airport at 08:45, arriving into NAIA Manila at 11:00
Iloilo - Manila (2P4140) departing Iloilo airport at 08:10, arriving into NAIA at 09:45
Manila - London (PR720) departing NAIA Manila Terminal 1 at 13:00, arriving into London Heathrow Airport Terminal 3 at 19:00.
Check the information below on steps you need to take to prepare for your journey to your departure airport.
To reach Davao airport
The Department of Tourism (DoT) and provincial tourism offices are facilitating overnight van transfers from the following locations for confirmed ticket holders (timings TBC):
Cagayan de Oro
Cotabato, General Santos, Sultan Kudarat
Surigao (and Caraga region – Region XIII)
Davao Province (taxis are available within Davao City)
To arrange this transport, contact the relevant DoT official. They can also provide information on any costs associated with the route you are offered.
If you need transport from a different location in Mindanao, contact the British Embassy. We are working to identify other transport options.
When travelling, you should note that:
you will need your passport, flight itinerary and Embassy letter to cross the border into Davao
you do not need medical clearance to enter Davao, but there may be medical certificate requirements in your departure area. This applies in the Caraga region. Check with the DoT contacts above for more information and help arranging these.
To reach Iloilo airport
The Department of Tourism (DoT) and provincial tourism offices have identified the following transport routes for confirmed ticket holders (timings TBC):
On 27 April, a ferry from Siquijor is leaving at 16:30 and arriving at Dumaguete port at 18:30 to join passengers from Dumaguete, and other parts of Negros Oriental. Fee per person is P200. You may contact Mr Cle Bern Paglinawan and Ms Jackie Antonio for assistance (contact details can be found on our social media pages).
There will be a van transfer departing Dumaguete at 20:00 on 27 April with expected arrival time of 01:00 on 28 April at Bacolod Port to join passengers from Bacolod and other parts of Negros Occidental. You may contact Ms Christine Mansinares for assistance (contact details can be found on our social media pages).
At 02:00 on 28 April, passengers will take a ferry from Bacolod Port to Dumangas Port with expected arrival at 04:00, followed by a bus transfer to Iloilo International Airport. Travellers are expected to arrive at Iloilo International Airport at 05:00. You may contact Ms Marie Fe Jimenia or Mr Rene Cortum for assistance (contact details can be found on our social media pages).
For British travellers from Boracay, Aklan, and Capiz, Southwest Tours will provide a transfer from Boracay to Iloilo for passengers with a confirmed booking for the special flights to London on 28 April 2020.
At 00:00 on 28 April, a speedboat will take the passengers from Boracay to Caticlan Port. A van will then collect the passengers from Boracay and Aklan at the Caticlan Port at 00:15. On the way to the Iloilo International Airport, the van will have a stop-over at the Aklan-Capiz border at around 02:45 to collect additional passengers in Capiz before proceeding to the Iloilo International Airport. Estimated time of arrival at the Iloilo International airport is 04:45. You may contact Ms Pamela Cababasay, Ms Maria Fe Jimenia, or Mr Rene Cortum for assistance (contact details can be found on our social media pages).
To arrange a place on the transport, contact the relevant Department of Tourism or provincial tourism official. Medical clearances will be required, the DoT will also advise you on this.
To reach Tacloban airport
Contact the Department of Tourism (DoT) local contact for assistance in arranging transport to Tacloban airport.
To reach Cebu airport
Contact the Department of Tourism (DoT) local contact for assistance in arranging transport to Cebu airport. Medical certificates are not required for departing passengers.
If you plan to make your own way to the airport, check this list of car and van rental companies.
To reach Manila airport from Luzon
Bus operators are accredited by the DoT, with relevant permits from the Land Transportation Franchising and Regulatory Board (LTFRB). Physical distancing will also be observed through the seat set-up. Buses will operate from across Luzon, with collections planned from the following locations:
Western Luzon: Baguio, La Union, Pangasinan, Tarlac
Central Luzon: Aurora, Nueva Ecija, Bulacan, Bataan, Zambales, Pampanga, Rizal
Southern Luzon: Batangas, Laguna, Cavite
South-eastern Luzon: Bicol, Masbate, Camarines Sur, Quezon
Eastern Luzon: Cagayan, Isabela, Nueva Vizcaya, Abra, Quirino
To arrange bus travel, email the British Embassy Manila at ukinthephilippines@fco.gov.uk with the subject line “Luzon Bus Travel Request”. In your email, provide the full names of all travellers in your group, and details of your location. You must have a seat confirmed on the 28 April special flight to be able to access these buses. Finalised routes and pick-up locations will be confirmed at a later date.
If you plan to make your own way to the airport, check this list of car and van rental companies.
However you travel, note that there are medical certificate requirements for travel in some regions and provinces in mainland Luzon:
You should be aware that travellers from Northwest Luzon (Ilocos Norte, Ilocos Sur, La Union and Pangasinan) require a medical certificate (fee is between PhP100-300); travellers from Northeast Luzon (Batanes, the valley provinces of Cagayan, Isabela, Nueva Vizcaya, and Quirino) require a medical certificate (no fee); and travellers from Central Luzon, Southern Luzon, Bicol Region, National Capital Region, and Cordillera Administrative Region do not require medical certificates.
If you need a medical certificate, apply as soon as possible at the local/city/regional health centre.
Applications should be quick but may depend on the availability of the issuing doctor. Department of Tourism local co-ordinators can assist in securing certificates.
Even where a certificate is not required, you should still carry your flight itinerary and the letter which you will receive from the Embassy to assist you at checkpoints.
Visa and Immigration Considerations when leaving the Philippines
If your tourist visa expired during the ECQ period:
You can apply for an extension, without penalty, up to 30 days after the lifting of the Enhanced Community Quarantine (ECQ). If you have overstayed and are trying to leave the country, you can arrange a visa extension at international airports. There may be a standard fee in order to extend the visa but no penalty fee will be applied.
If your visa expired before the ECQ and you have been in the Philippines for more than 12 months:
Any fines and penalties will need to be settled in a Bureau of Immigration (BI) sub-port office. The list of BI sub-port offices may be found at the Bureau of Immigration website
If your visa expired before the ECQ and you have been in the Philippines for less than 12 months:
Any fines and penalties may be settled at the airport before your departure.
Emigration Clearance Certificate (ECC):
You should refer to the Bureau of Immigration website to check if you are required to pay for an ECC. Instructions and a checklist can also be found at the Bureau of Immigration website. You can settle this at the airport before your departure.
Other important points:
All ACR I cardholders are generally required to pay for the ECC upon departure.
Those with approved visas but who are yet to receive their ACR I cards can show their receipt at the airport.
Foreigners with approved visa applications which have not yet been issued can present their valid passport, DOJ endorsement or Certification from the approving office and receipt.
There is no visa extension or visa downgrading facility available at the airport.
Arrival in the UK
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Future options
The British Embassy Manila is in contact with airlines, the Philippine authorities and other governments to make sure commercial options for returning to the UK remain open for as long as possible.
Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British Embassy on Twitter and Facebook.
If you cannot leave the Philippines at this time, you should:
contact the Embassy at ukinthephilippines@fco.gov.uk to inform them of your details and current situation
continue to follow advice and guidance issued by national and local government units.
continue to monitor this page, and the Embassy’s social media for further updates
See more information and advice about staying where you are if you cannot return to the UK.
Further information
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
