!
Warning
FCDO advises against all travel to parts of Philippines.

Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in the Philippines
Terrorists are very likely to try to carry out attacks in the Philippines.
FCDO advises against all travel to western and central Mindanao and the Sulu archipelago because of terrorist activity and clashes between the military and insurgent groups. FCDO advises against all but essential travel to the remainder of Mindanao (excluding Camiguin, Dinagat and Siargao Islands) due to the threat of terrorism.
There are multiple terrorist and militant groups operating in the Philippines, including the Abu Sayyaf Group (ASG), Islamic State Philippines (IS-Philippines), the Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighters (BIFF), and other associated groups.
Terrorist attacks occur frequently in Mindanao and the Sulu Archipelago in particular. While these attacks primarily target Filipino security forces, certain groups operating in these regions have pledged allegiance to Daesh and have targeted religious groups. Terrorist groups may also consider Westerners as legitimate targets for an attack.
Multiple terrorist groups have the intent to carry out attacks anywhere in the Philippines, including in the capital Manila and in places visited by foreigners, such as:
shopping malls
entertainment establishments
public transport, including airports and the metro system
places of worship
Previous significant incidents include:
in December 2023, four people were killed and several injured in an explosion during a Catholic mass in Marawi
in August 2020, dual explosions in Jolo, Sulu resulting in a number of deaths and injuries
in 2019, a dual suicide attack on a military base in Indanan in Sulu Province killed 3 civilians and 3 military personnel as well as the 2 attackers. A further 22 people were injured
in 2019, 27 people were killed and many more injured as a result of bomb attacks at a Roman Catholic cathedral on Jolo Island in Sulu Province
Terrorist kidnap
There is a threat of kidnap by terrorist groups operating in the Philippines, including the targeting of foreign nationals in rural, urban and coastal areas.
Kidnap for ransom operations continue to represent a potential source of revenue for both criminal and terrorist groups operating in the southern Philippines, specifically on Mindanao and the Sulu archipelago.
The primary threat in the Philippines has historically been posed by the Abu Sayyaf Group (ASG), who kidnapped a number of Westerners over the 2010s, including British nationals as recently as 2019. ASG has, in more recent years, targeted local fishermen in kidnap operations, but may still consider Westerners desirable targets.
British nationals are seen as legitimate targets, including tourists, humanitarian aid workers, journalists and business travellers. If you are kidnapped, the reason for your presence is unlikely to protect you or secure your safe release. 
The long-standing policy of the British government policy is not to make substantive concessions to hostage takers. The British government considers that paying ransoms and releasing prisoners builds the capability of terrorist groups and finances their activities. This can, in turn, increase the risk of further hostage-taking. The Terrorism Act (2000) makes payments to terrorists illegal. 
Political situation
The Philippines Bureau of Immigration has warned foreign nationals against participating in public protests and political rallies. If you participate, you may be detained and deported. Avoid demonstrations and large gatherings of people.
Crime
Robbery
There are high levels of street crime and robbery, sometimes involving weapons and firearms.
Be vigilant when travelling on public transport and avoid displaying cash or jewellery. Armed hold-ups on ‘jeepneys’ and buses can happen, particularly in Manila and other large cities. In some cases these have resulted in fatalities.
If you’re travelling by taxi, including to or from the airport, only use taxis from a reputable company. Some taxi drivers and their accomplices have robbed and harmed passengers. Consider arranging to be met at the airport or using a hotel transfer service.
Laws and cultural differences 
Personal ID
You must be able to show some identification if requested by the police. If you want to keep your passport in a safe place, such as in a hotel safe, you should carry a photocopy of the photo page containing your personal details.
Public offences
Violating local laws may result in a jail sentence, served in a local prison. Sentences are severe. The judicial system allows long-term detention until a court hearing takes place. Foreign nationals have been known to spend several years in prison on remand while their cases are processed. The detention facilities and prison conditions are far below UK standards.
Drugs and prison sentences
Do not become involved with drugs of any kind. Penalties for importing and using illegal drugs are particularly severe. A conviction for possession of even a small amount of any illicit drug in the Philippines means a mandatory jail sentence. Police and other authorities have been publicly encouraged to kill suspected drug traffickers who resist arrest.
Laws on child abuse and rape
Child abuse and rape are punished with extremely long prison sentences. Be cautious about strangers offering friendship. There have been cases where women, single or sometimes with children, have befriended single male tourists and then threatened to report rape or abuse in an apparent attempt to extort money. A child is defined in Philippine law as a person aged 17 and under.
LGBT+ travellers
The Philippines is generally a tolerant and progressive place for LGBT+ travellers, although some stigma exists outside urban centres. Current legislation does not recognise same-sex marriage. Same-sex relationships are not illegal in the Philippines, but overt public displays of affection may be considered a ‘grave scandal’ under the Revised Penal Code , and you could get a fine or a 6-month jail sentence.
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Recruiting Filipinos for employment
If you’re planning to recruit Filipinos for employment in the UK or elsewhere, you must be licensed by the relevant government authority. The laws relating to illegal recruitment are strict.
Independent travel and adventure tourism
If you’re planning to travel within the Philippines, away from the main resort areas and tourist spots, contact the authorities in the local area as part of your preparation.
Always leave travel plans, passport details  and credit cards with friends, colleagues or relatives. Carry identification such as a driving licence or passport copy at all times, and make sure the emergency contact details in your passport are up to date.  
Water safety
Swimming and surfing beaches are unlikely to have lifeguards or warning signs, so get advice from your hotel or local residents before starting any activities. The seas can be extremely dangerous and British nationals are regularly in trouble in the water, or even drown.
Scuba diving 
Diving school standards are not always as high as in the UK. You should:
check a dive operator’s credentials
make sure you’re covered by insurance
make sure safety equipment is available on the boat, particularly oxygen
ask about safety precautions, including the ability to transfer divers to a hyperbaric chamber
If you have not had any previous diving experience:
ask your dive instructor to explain what cover they offer before signing up
check what to do if something goes wrong, including how to call for help while at sea
Transport risks
Road travel
You can drive in the Philippines on a UK driving licence for up to 90 days. If you’re planning to hire a car, check their requirements before you travel. If you’re staying longer than 90 days, you should apply for a Philippine driving licence.
Accidents happen frequently, mainly due to poor road conditions, dangerous driving and non-enforcement of traffic laws. Observe the speed limit and be cautious around motorbikes and scooters. Avoid driving at night or during dangerous weather conditions if possible. Make sure you have adequate insurance.
Safety standards on taxis and buses can be low.  
When travelling by private car, taxi or any shared transport, you can expect a routine security presence with random checkpoints along the roads. Always co-operate with officials and allow extra time to pass through security checks.
Sea travel
There is a high level of piracy and armed robbery against ships in and around the Sulu and Celebes seas. Boats travelling to and from offshore islands and dive sites are also possible targets.
The ferry and passenger boat network has a poor record of maritime safety. Boats sometimes lack lifesaving equipment, and maritime rescue services may be limited. You should be cautious when using ferries and avoid overcrowded boats. Accidents are more frequent during the rainy season between June and December when storms can develop quickly.
Extreme weather and natural disasters
See extreme weather and natural hazards for information about how to prepare, and how to react if there is a warning.
Typhoons
Around 20 typhoons hit the Philippines each year. Most typhoons occur from June to November. Follow the advice of local authorities, and monitor the progress of storms on the Philippines state weather agency, the Philippines Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Council and typhoon.com, or follow @Typhoon2k on Twitter.
Earthquakes
Earthquakes are a risk in the Philippines. The US Federal Emergency Management Agency website has advice about what to do before, during and after an earthquake. You can find more information on the Philippine Institute for Volcanology and Seismology (PHIVOLCS) website.
Volcanoes
There are numerous volcanoes in the Philippines, any of which can erupt without warning. Sudden steam and ash explosions may happen at any time.
On 8 June 2023, the Philippine authorities raised the alert level of Mayon Volcano from level 2 (increasing unrest) to level 3 (increased tendency towards a hazardous eruption).
Check news reports and follow local advice before travelling to any areas around volcanoes. Avoid volcanic areas during and immediately after heavy rainfall when there’s increased risk of lava flows.
You can find more information about volcanoes on the Philippine Institute for Volcanology and Seismology (PHIVOLCS) website.
Entry into Taal Volcano Island and Taal’s Permanent Danger Zone is prohibited. You should follow updates on the PhiVolcs official website.
Ash plumes can affect air quality and have an impact on health. If you have any pre-existing respiratory conditions, you might be at increased risk of triggering or worsening your symptoms. A properly fitted face mask may provide some protection.
The Philippine emergency and rescue services have a limited capacity to deal with large natural disasters.
