Coronavirus guidance is being updated.
Read what you can and cannot do

This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in the Philippines as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place by national and local government to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
If you cannot leave the Philippines at this time, you should also contact the British Embassy at ukinthephilippines@fco.gov.uk to inform them of your details and current situation.
Moving around in the Philippines
The Philippine government has declared a public health emergency. On 12 March, the Philippine government announced Code Red Sublevel 2 in response to COVID-19. This imposes restrictions including social distancing requirements across Metro Manila.
Many local government units (including in Metro Manila) have announced overnight curfews (most commonly between 8pm and 5am). The situation remains uncertain and amendments to the restrictions continue to be announced. You should take local advice on what restrictions are in place wherever you are in the Philippines and follow the instructions of local authorities.
An ‘Enhanced Community Quarantine’ is in place across Luzon Island and will remain in place until 15 May in many areas, including Metro Manila. This will affect your ability to travel and access essential services, following the shutdown of all public transportation. Other areas of the Philippines have also announced their own local quarantine arrangements. This is an evolving situation, and you are advised to follow the announcements of local authorities across the country.
The Philippine Government has confirmed that foreign nationals will be able to leave the Philippines at any time during the period of enhanced quarantine. See [Entry requirements(https://www.gov.uk/foreign-travel-advice/philippines/entry-requirements).
If you are in Luzon you will be permitted to travel to the nearest international airport within 24 hours prior to your scheduled departure, provided you have proof of scheduled international travel (i.e. travel itinerary or eticket). Outside of this 24 hour period you will be required to adhere to local quarantine restrictions.
There is disruption to travel routes both domestically and across the region. Check with your travel provider for updates.
Visas
As long as you have a valid visa you will be allowed to remain in the country, but will be required to observe the local government rules if your present location is under quarantine.
If your tourist visa expired during the ECQ period
You can apply for an extension, without penalty, up to 30 days after the lifting of the Enhanced Community Quarantine (ECQ). If you have overstayed and are trying to leave the country, you can arrange a visa extension at international airports. There may be a standard fee in order to extend the visa but no penalty fee will be applied.
If your visa expired before the ECQ and you have been in the Philippines for more than 12 months
Any fines and penalties will need to be settled in a Bureau of Immigration (BI) sub-port office. The list of BI sub-port offices may be found at the Bureau of Immigration website
If your visa expired before the ECQ and you have been in the Philippines for less than 12 months
Any fines and penalties may be settled at the airport before your departure.
Emigration Clearance Certificate (ECC)
You should refer to the Bureau of Immigration website to check if you are required to pay for an ECC. Instructions and a checklist can also be found at the Bureau of Immigration website. You can settle this at the airport before your departure.
All ACR I cardholders are generally required to pay for the ECC upon departure. Those with approved visas but who are yet to receive their ACR I cards can show their receipt at the airport. Foreigners with approved visa applications which have not yet been issued can present their valid passport, DOJ endorsement or Certification from the approving office and receipt.
Health
For contact details for English speaking doctors, visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in the Philippines.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
The Philippine Department for Health and the Bureau of Immigration are issuing information about the situation on their websites.
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British Embassy on Twitter and Facebook.
