The Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) advises against all travel to:
western and central Mindanao and the Sulu archipelago because of terrorist activity and clashes between the military and insurgent groups.
The FCDO advises against all but essential travel to:
the remainder of Mindanao (excluding Camiguin, Dinagat and Siargao Islands) due to the threat of terrorism. See Local travel and Terrorism.
the remainder of the Philippines based on the current assessment of COVID-19 risks
From 4am on 9 April visitors who have been in or transited through the Philippines in the previous 10 days cannot enter the UK. British and Irish nationals and third country nationals with residence rights in the UK arriving in England from the Philippines will be required to quarantine in a hotel. Different rules apply for arrivals into Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland.
From 1 January onwards, those with residence rights includes: holders of Indefinite Leave to Remain; holders of existing leave to enter or remain (i.e those with biometric Residence permits) or an entry clearance/visa that grants such leave e.g. students, workers, etc (excluding visit visas); holders of EU Settlement Scheme (“EUSS”) leave; those who have rights of entry under the Withdrawal Agreements (including returning residents with a right of residence under the EEA Regulations and EEA frontier workers); family members of EEA nationals with rights under the Withdrawal Agreement.
Travel to the Philippines is subject to entry restrictions
From 1 May 2021, entry to the Philippines is permitted for foreign nationals subject to the following conditions: the traveller has a valid and existing visa at the time of entry, except for those under Republic Act No. 6768 of the Act Instituting the Balikbayan Program; the traveller has pre-booked accommodation for at least ten nights in an accredited quarantine facility; the traveller is subject to COVID-19 testing at the quarantine hotel/facility on the seventh day from date of arrival; and entry is subject to the maximum capacity of inbound passengers at the port of entry and date of entry. Travel Restrictions imposed by Inter-Agency Taskforce Resolution No 112 (s.2021) issues 27 April 2021 continue to be in force.
Some airlines need passengers from the Philippines to present a COVID-19 RT-PCR negative-test certification issued by an accredited testing facility before being permitted. Check with your airline or travel company for the latest information
See Department of Foreign Affairs’ guide on what to do prior to entry, on arrival and during quarantine in the Philippines
See Entry requirements for more information before you plan to travel.
Preparing for your return journey to the UK
If you’re returning to the UK from overseas, you will need to:
provide your journey and contact details before you travel
check if you need to self-isolate on your return
If your return journey to the UK transits another country, you should check whether it is subject to a travel ban or any other additional requirements. If so, contact your travel provider.
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
If you’re planning travel to the Philippines, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCDO guidance on foreign travel insurance.
For information about COVID-19 vaccines, see the Coronavirus page
It is estimated that over 200,000 British nationals visited the Philippines in 2018. Most visits are trouble-free.
Visit our tropical cyclones page for advice about what to do if you’re caught up in a storm, and follow the Philippine Atmospheric, Geophysical and Astronomical Services Administration (PAGASA) or the National Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Council (NDRRMC) for more updates.
On 9 March, the Philippine Institute of Volcanology and Seismology (PHIVOLCS) raised the alert status of Taal volcano from Level 1 (low level unrest) to Alert Level 2 (increasing unrest) due to probable magmatic activity that may or may not lead to an eruption. PHIVOLCS is not advising evacuation from the nearby area but has reminded the public that direct access to Taal Volcano Island is strictly prohibited and the area is closed to entry. See Natural disasters
Terrorists are very likely to try to carry out attacks in the Philippines. Terrorist groups have the intent and capability to carry out attacks anywhere in the country, including in the capital Manila and in places visited by foreigners, such as airports, shopping malls, public transport, including the metro system, and places of worship. You should remain vigilant at all times and report anything suspicious to the local authorities. See Terrorism
It’s likely that terrorist groups continue to plan kidnap operations against western nationals in the Philippines, both on land and at sea. Risks are particularly acute in Mindanao and the Sulu archipelago. See Kidnapping
Martial law was lifted across Mindanao on 1 January 2020. Monitor media reporting and follow the instructions of local authorities. A ‘state of national emergency on account of lawless violence’ remains in place across the rest of the country.
The Philippines is in an active earthquake zone and has numerous volcanoes. The country is also affected by around 20 typhoons each year, most of which occur between June and December. See Natural disasters
Normally you can enter the Philippines without a visa for an initial period of 30 days. You can also get a tourist visa before you travel, which will allow an initial 59 day stay. However, restrictions are currently in place as part of the Philippines response to the coronavirus outbreak. See Visas and Coronavirus
There’s a high incidence of street crime and robbery throughout the Philippines. You should take sensible precautions. See Crime
Prison sentences in the Philippines are severe. The judicial system can result in long-term detention until a court hearing takes place. Detention facilities are far below UK standards. Do not become involved with drugs of any kind. Penalties for importing and using illegal drugs are particularly severe. See Local laws and customs
The Philippines’ ferry and passenger boat network has a poor record of maritime safety. You should exercise caution when considering travel by inter-island ferries and avoid overcrowded boats. Accidents are more frequent during the rainy season between June and December when storms can develop quickly. See Sea travel
There’s a heightened risk of dengue fever during the rainy season (June to October). See Health
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission. Consular support is severely limited in parts of the Philippines where the FCDO advise against travel, and limited in the areas where the FCDO advise against all but essential travel. Full consular support is available in all other areas.
The Overseas Business Risk service offers information and advice for British companies operating overseas on how to manage political, economic, and business security-related risks.
