!
Warning
FCDO advises against all travel to parts of Philippines.

Your travel insurance could be invalidated if you travel against advice from the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO).
Areas where FCDO advises against travel
Mindanao and the Sulu archipelago
FCDO advises against all travel to western and central Mindanao and the Sulu archipelago.
FCDO also advises against all but essential travel to the remainder of Mindanao, except for:
Camiguin Island
Dinagat Island
Siargao Island
This advice is due to terrorist activity and clashes between the military and insurgent groups in south Philippines.
Find out more about why FCDO advises against travel.
Typhoon Ragasa
Typhoon Ragasa is currently expected to bring heavy rainfall and devastating wind impacts to the Batanes or Babuyan Islands in the northern Philippines from Monday 22 to Tuesday 23 September.  
Typhoons can change course and intensity. Follow the advice of local authorities, and monitor the progress of storms on the Philippines state weather agency and the Philippines Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Council. You can find updates on typhoon2000.ph, or follow @Typhoon2k on X. If you are due to travel, check for messages from your travel provider.
Demonstrations
Demonstrations are expected over the coming weeks in Metro Manila and elsewhere in the Philippines.
You should avoid all demonstrations and large gatherings and follow the advice of local authorities. Demonstrations may lead to travel disruption. You should allow extra time for journeys and monitor local media for updates.
See Safety and security for more information on demonstrations and rallies in the Philippines.
Before you travel
No travel can be guaranteed safe. Read all the advice in this guide. You may also find it helpful to:  
see general advice for women travellers 
read our guide on disability and travel abroad 
see general advice for LGBT+ travellers  
read about safety for solo and independent travel 
see advice on volunteering and adventure travel abroad
Travel insurance
If you choose to travel, research your destinations and get appropriate travel insurance. Insurance should cover your itinerary, planned activities and expenses in an emergency.
About FCDO travel advice
FCDO provides advice about risks of travel to help you make informed decisions. Find out more about FCDO travel advice.
Get travel advice updates
Sign up to get email notifications when this travel advice is updated.
Follow FCDO:   
travel advice on X
travel advice on Facebook
Travel Aware on Instagram
