Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Indonesia on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Death from COVID-19 in Indonesia
If COVID-19 is given as cause of death and you would like to arrange a local cremation and repatriation of ashes, you will need to make contact with a local undertaker within 4 hours of the death registration to give your instructions. If you do not do this, it is likely that a local burial will take place.
You will also require a letter of no objection from the Embassy. This will be issued on the next working day.
International travel
Commercial flights are operating to and from Indonesia. Check with your travel company for the latest information and PCR test validity periods.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Indonesia.
Returning to the UK
Check what you must do to travel abroad and return to England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19 before or after you travel. You will be expected to self-isolate at home for 10 days along with all family members. If you do not have a home in Indonesia, you may be required to isolate in a Government-approved hotel or other quarantine facility where you will need to undergo further testing. You will be expected to bear all costs. These rules are likely to apply equally to minors travelling without parents.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Indonesia
Emergency public activity restrictions (PPKM) are in place until 4 October. Throughout the whole of Indonesia. Essential services are available, but many public facilities remain closed. It is mandatory to wear a face mask when outside. Criminal sanctions, including deportation or large fines may apply for violations of the restrictions. Many non-essential businesses are closed and the public are advised to work from home until at least 4 October.
Public health measures by the Indonesian authorities include restrictions on in-country air travel.
Passengers travelling on domestic flights will need:
a PCR certificate issued within 48 hours to confirm that they are free of COVID-19. The certificate should have a readable barcode or QR code and must be issued by a Ministry of Health approved health facility. If the certificate does not have a QR code an additional PCR test may be required on arrival
negative Antigen Test issued within 24 hours prior to departure for those who are fully vaccinated travelling within and between Java and Bali for the duration of the PPKM regulations
a completed airline travel declaration form where required
travellers are required to install the Peduli Lindungi app, proof of vaccination, in the form of a vaccination certificate on the app showing at least 1 COVID-19 vaccination having been administered
Children under 12 years of age are temporarily not allowed to travel domestically between provinces/districts/cities.
For international air passengers
Passengers who are leaving Indonesia via Jakarta are exempt from showing proof of COVID-19 vaccination if they have no previous travel connection and are leaving directly from Jakarta. Any other passenger must show evidence of COVID-19 vaccination if they have received the vaccine.
Any passengers who have not received the vaccine, intend to leave Indonesia and need to travel domestically to do so, are exempt from showing vaccine certification subject to the following conditions:
they do not leave the airport area during transit
they obtain clearance from the Port Health Office at the point of first departure
they show a full and valid flight itinerary showing all departure and arrival points
Travel requirements change frequently, sometimes at short notice. Please consult the Garuda Indonesia website for up to date information on testing requirements.
If you arrive in Bali by sea, a PCR test or negative rapid test with 48 hour validity is required.
Travellers are required to install the Peduli Lindungi app.
Accommodation
Some hotels and private rental options continue to be open for business but will be more limited than usual and social distancing measures will be in force.
Public places and services
Emergency mobility restrictions have been introduced on travel and non-essential services until at least 20 September. Essential services remain accessible
Healthcare in Indonesia
For contact details for English speaking doctors, visit our list of healthcare providers.
The standard of local medical care in Indonesia can be poor and some medical tests cannot be done reliably. As the government of Indonesia announces rising numbers of COVID-19 cases, there is an increasing risk that the healthcare system will come under significant further strain. Access to routine and emergency healthcare may be limited.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Indonesia.
If you think you have COVID-19 symptoms, you should contact your nearest doctor or hospital. Detailed information about how patients with COVID-19 symptoms are handled can be found in our ‘living in Indonesia’ guide.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Indonesia
We will update this page when the Government of Indonesia announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Indonesian national vaccination programme started in January 2021 and is using the Sinovac, Sinopharm and AstraZeneca vaccines. The programme is currently focused on priority groups and areas. The Government of Indonesia has stated that British nationals falling within priority groups and areas, who are resident in Indonesia are eligible for vaccination if they choose to join the programme.
Regional prioritisation means that access to vaccines varies across the country. Foreign Nationals are currently eligible for vaccination if they are above 60 years old and live in ‘high risk areas’. Currently this only applies to Jakarta, Surabaya, and Bali.
In addition some areas, where the tourist sector is looking to reopen, are running local vaccination programmes open to other age-groups. You are advised to contact your local Government Office to check whether this is planned in your area. Residents in possession of the correct documentation (KITAP/KTP permanent stay permit/Indonesia Identity card) may be eligible for vaccination.
If you are in a priority group or area, in order to obtain a vaccination you will need: your Passport; KITAS/KITAP (permanent stay permit/residence permit card); proof of address; and the SKTT (Surat Keterangan Tempat Tinggal – certificate of residence) from the Kelurahan. You should contact the local RT/RW (local Government Office) to get the information on your nearest location for vaccination, or go to the nearest primary health care (called PUSKESMAS in Bahasa) to get the vaccine. You are also advised to check with your local health provider as to the status of your local rollout and eligibility.
The Government of Indonesia is looking into a programme of vaccinations for all foreign nationals. We are in contact with the authorities and are exploring at how this may roll out. This page will be updated once we know how any such programme may be accessed.
We understand that the Jakarta Chamber of Commerce will be running a (paid) vaccine clinic on the third week of September for Jakarta only. The vaccine on offer is Sinopharm. Anyone wishing to use this service should contact Rosa on the following number +6281585727005 or Dewi at +6285814290029 or check out the related Instagram page, here: @kadindkijakarta
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in Indonesia, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance
