This page has information on travelling to Indonesia. Check what you must do to return to the UK.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport from the UK, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Indonesia set and enforce entry rules.
All travellers
You will need permission from the Indonesian authorities to enter Indonesia. In normal circumstances, if you’re travelling on a British Citizen passport you do not need a visa to enter Indonesia for visits of up to 30 days. This service is currently suspended.
With effect from 7 March 2022, British Citizens who are entering Indonesia for tourism purposes can apply for a visa on arrival at a cost of IDR 500,000. This visa is valid for 30 days, and can be extended once (for a maximum of 30 days) by making an application to an immigration office within Indonesia. Ensure that you extend your visa within the initial 30 days to avoid an overstay fine. Visa on arrival is now available at the following airports and seaports:
Airports:
Soekarno Hatta DKI Jakarta
Ngurah Rai Bali
Kualanamu North Sumatra
Juanda East Java
Hasanuddin South Sulawesi
Sam Ratulangi North Sulawesi
Yogyakarta Yogyakarta
Hang Nadim Batam
Riau Islands
Zainuddin Abdul Majid West Nusa Tenggara
Seaports:
Nongsa Terminal Bahari
Riau Island Batam Centre
Riau Island Sekupang
Riau IslandCitra Tri Tunas Riau Island
Marina Teluk Senimba Riau Island
Bandar Bentan Telani Lagoi Riau Island
Bandar Seri Udana Lobam Riau Island
Sri Bintan Pura/Riau Island
Tanjung Balai Karimun
Riau Islands
Foreigners can also apply for a visitor or limited stay visa, including visas on compassionate grounds. The application should be made by a local sponsor to the Director General of Immigration.
The Indonesian embassy has introduced a new e-visa system. You or your sponsor should submit your visa application online.
A full list of visas is available on the Indonesian Immigration website.
If you’re fully vaccinated
If you’re fully vaccinated, you can enter Indonesia as follows:
Those intending to buy a “visa on arrival” should:
install the Peduli Lindungi mobile application
show proof of a full course of vaccination (travellers under 18 years old or those who cannot be vaccinated for health reasons are exempt)
show proof of negative RT-PCR test taken maximum 2 x 24 hours prior to departure
if needing to self-quarantine, show proof of payment for hotel accommodation
if recovered from COVID-19 fewer than 30 days prior to departure, you are exempt from the requirement to show proof of vaccination and negative RT-PCR prior to departure. However, you will be required to take a RT-PCR test upon arrival and show the recovery certificate from a hospital in your country of origin
show proof of health insurance from an insurance company which is incorporated as a legal entity in Indonesia, which covers all health financing while in Indonesia.
undergo a temperature check upon arrival and, if showing COVID-19 symptoms and / or a temperature above 37.5 degrees, a RT-PCR test. If negative, fully vaccinated travellers can continue their journey
Those arriving on other visit or limited stay visas should:
provide a health certificate confirming a negative COVID-19 PCR test (swab test) result, which can be checked by a QR code or bar-code. From 1 January, your certificate must be issued a maximum of 48 hours prior to your departure for Indonesia. The certificate must be in English
download and install the Peduli Lindungi app to perform the e-Hac registration
provide a letter stating their willingness to obey Indonesia’s health protocol including quarantine requirements
show proof of health insurance from an insurance company which is incorporated as a legal entity in Indonesia, which covers all health financing while in Indonesia.
show proof of USD 1500 or equivalent by showing last 3 months bank statements
show proof of accommodation including payment (if staying in a hotel)
take a PCR test upon arrival at the airport. If you test positive with mild or asymptomatic symptoms on this test, you will be required to isolate at your hotel or place of residence.
Fully vaccinated travellers do not need to have antigen/PCR test to travel domestically.
Proof of vaccination status
You must present proof that you have been fully vaccinated to enter Indonesia.
You can use the UK COVID Pass to demonstrate your vaccination record when entering Indonesia. You will need to present both soft and hard copies of your NHS vaccination certificates at various stages of your journey. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
If you’re not fully vaccinated
If you’re not fully vaccinated, you will:
need to take a RT-PCR upon arrival
be vaccinated at the entry point (only for children 6 - 17 years old, KITAS/KITAP holder, diplomats)
partially vaccinated travellers will be required to self-quarantine for 5 x 24 hours, with a second RT-PCR taken on day 4
See information on getting a test before entry.
If you are unvaccinated you are not allowed to enter Indonesia unless you can produce a doctor’s letter with a statement showing why you cannot be vaccinated. This letter will also be assessed by the Indonesian health authorities before entry is permitted. Contact the Indonesian Embassy in London for further advice before traveling.
Quarantine Regulation
If you are fully vaccinated, you will need to take a PCR test upon arrival and wait for the results in your hotel or place of residence. If the test result is positive, you will be referred to a quarantine facility. If the test result is negative, you can continue your journey. For travellers arriving in Bali who wish to continue their journey to other parts of Indonesia, you need to stay at least 4 days in Bali before continuing the journey.
If you’ve had COVID-19 in the past year
If you’re not fully vaccinated but have tested positive for COVID-19 in the last year you can still enter Indonesia. You’ll need to show proof of a negative PCR test within 48 hours of arrival and follow the same 7 day quarantine rules and testing requirements that apply to those who are not fully vaccinated and have never had COVID-19.
You can use the NHS COVID Pass to demonstrate proof of COVID-19 recovery when entering Indonesia.
Residents of Indonesia
KITAS Extension - In country application:
KITAS holders whose stay permit is expiring and are still in Indonesia and cannot return yet to their own country can apply for a visitor visa or a limited stay visa. These documents need to be supplied with the application :
a. Letter stating willingness to follow Indonesia’s health protocol
b. Proof of health/travel insurance covering covid19 treatment
c. The latest stay permit or Exit Permit Only (EPO) for KITAS holder
d. Proof of minimum USD 2000 or equivalent from the foreigner or the sponsor in the form of the latest 3 months bank statements
Those who have received the limited stay visa will be given ITAS (limited/temporary stay permit) within max 7 days by the local immigration office.
KITAS Extension – offshore application
KITAS holders with expiring stay permit but currently outside Indonesia can apply for an extension through a sponsor. The sponsor must submit the application to the immigration office attaching a copy of the passport and proof of leaving Indonesia. The application is submitted without biometric sampling. The sponsor must report the foreigner’s arrival within 30 days.
You should not use the NHS testing service to get a test in order to facilitate your travel to another country. You should arrange to take a private test.
Children and young people
Children aged 12 to 17 follow the same rules as fully or partly vaccinated travellers. Those who have not been vaccinated will be expected to provide proof of policy that children cannot be vaccinated in their home country. Any child between the ages of 6-17, who has not been previously vaccinated, will be vaccinated after their second negative PCR test during the quarantine process. Children aged 5 and under are not required to be vaccinated.
If you’re transiting through Indonesia
Transiting is when you pass through one country on the way to your final destination.
Transiting through Indonesia is permitted for travellers who remain airside. Passengers will need to receive approval from the port health authority before continuing their journey. They should have evidence of their vaccination status, PCR test results and onward flight details ready for inspection
If you are transiting through Indonesia on your way to another country and will be passing through immigration (sometimes known as a layover), for example to stay in a hotel for a flight the next day, you will need to follow the requirements for a visitor.
Exemptions
All passengers must be in possession of a health certificate confirming a negative COVID-19 PCR test (swab test) result and proof that they have received at least two doses of a COVID-19 vaccine.,
Exemptions to these rules may apply for:
Travellers below 18 years of age if they produce prof of policy from their home country
Foreign nationals who cannot be vaccinated due to their medical condition. They must produce a certificate from a medical professional to confirm this.
Diplomatic/Service Visa holder for the purposes of a Ministerial/Official visit
Active flight or ship crew
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
If you are visiting or are a resident in Indonesia, your passport should be valid for 6 months from the date you arrive.
Check with your travel provider or the nearest Indonesian Embassy or Consulate to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Health certificate
All visitors will also need to present your health certificate showing a negative COVID-19 PCR test result as stipulated above at check-in ahead of any scheduled travel. Failure to present a health certificate may result in your being prevented from boarding the plane, or denied entry or transit in Indonesia. You should comply with any additional screening measures put in place by the authorities.
More information is available regarding coronavirus in Indonesia via the Ministry of Health.
More information
Full details of the travel restrictions for foreign visitors are available in English on Twitter via DitJen Imigrasi (@ditjen_imigrasi). For more information, see the announcement on the Indonesian Embassy website.
Visa scams
Beware of visa scams by fraudulent visa agents who, having taken your money, may fail to provide a visa or supply the wrong kind. This could result in your overstaying and a fine of IDR 1million/day, detention, deportation and possible re-entry ban. You should use the Indonesian Immigration self-service portal.
Visa scams are on the rise in Indonesia. The British Embassy is aware of numerous foreign nationals in Bali who have been the victim of visa scams at this time. Many have lost significant sums of money, some have been deported despite paying large fees to their agent to secure the correct visa or extension to stay.
If you wish to use to use an agent, do thorough due diligence and check for reviews and recommendations.
Dual nationality
Indonesian law doesn’t allow dual nationality for adults over 18 years of age. If you’re a British national who has retained Indonesian nationality, you may experience immigration difficulties in Indonesia.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are accepted for airside transit and exit from Indonesia. ETDs may also be accepted for entry into Indonesia. If you’re entering Indonesia using an ETD you must apply for a visit visa before travelling. You won’t be able to get a visa on arrival. The processing time for an Indonesian visa can vary depending on where you apply. Some Indonesian embassies do not issue Indonesian visas in ETDs. Contact your nearest Indonesian Embassy to check before you apply.
Entry requirements may differ if you live in Indonesia. Contact your nearest Indonesian Embassy to confirm whether you need to apply for a visit visa before you travel to Indonesia using an ETD.
If you apply for an ETD whilst in Indonesia, you may need to get an exit permit from Immigration to leave the country. We will advise you to contact the nearest Immigration office to check before travelling.
Proof of onward travel
Immigration officials in Indonesia may ask you for proof of onward travel (such as a return or onward air ticket). You should make all reservations before leaving for Indonesia. Some airlines have refused to board passengers without evidence of onward travel.
Departure and airport tax
Airport tax is included in the cost your ticket for all domestic flights within Indonesia. For some international flights departing Indonesia, airport tax may not be included in the price of the ticket. You should check with your airline or travel agent before you travel.
Overstaying your visa
Overstaying without the proper authority is a serious matter and visitors can be held in detention or refused permission to leave the country until a fine of Rp 1 million per day is paid. After overstaying for 60 days, you will be detained and possibly imprisoned.
Registering
If you stay in private accommodation in Indonesia (not a hotel) you must register your presence with the local police or you could face a fine of Rp 5 million. If you stay in a hotel you will be registered automatically.
Travelling with medication
If you bring any prescription medication into Indonesia, make sure you have a copy of the prescription with you. The prescription must cover the quantity of medication you bring. Be aware that some prescription or other medication available in the UK, including some psychotropic medicines, may be illegal in Indonesia. If you’re unsure, speak to your doctor and the Indonesian Embassy for advice before you travel.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
Returning to the UK
Check what you must do to return to the UK.
