At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Coronavirus
The Foreign and Commonwealth Office advise against all but essential travel to all of Indonesia.
There is an ongoing global outbreak of coronavirus (COVID-19) and cases have been confirmed in Indonesia. The Indonesian Government has announced temporary restrictions on travellers in response to coronavirus. There is a temporary suspension of flights between Indonesia and mainland China. Anyone who has visited China within the previous 14 days will not be permitted to enter or transit the country.
From Friday 20 March the visa exemption scheme will be suspended for 1 month for all visitors to which it previously applied, including visitors from the UK. Those who have visited the UK, Iran, Italy, the Vatican, Spain, France, Germany and Switzerland in the last 14 days will not be allowed to enter into or transit through Indonesia.
From 8 March, Indonesia also introduced restrictions on all travellers who have visited South Korea within the last 14 days.
All those who wish to visit Indonesia must obtain a visa from the relevant Indonesian Mission in accordance with the purpose of their visit. Upon application, you must provide a health certificate issued by the relevant health authorities from your respective country.
All visitors will also be required to present their health certificate at check-in ahead of any scheduled travel. Failure to present a health certificate may result in you being denied entry or transit in Indonesia. You should comply with any additional screening measures put in place by the authorities.
Upon arrival at Indonesian airports, all visitors must also complete and submit a Health Alert certificate to the Health Quarantine Office.
Please see link to additional measures of the Indonesian Government in Relation to COVID-19.
Keep up to date with information from your tour operator, transport or accommodation provider on the impact on any existing travel plans.
If you need further information about entry requirements, contact the local immigration authorities or the nearest Indonesian Embassy. You should also check with your airline or travel company for the latest information.
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
You can find more information about cases in Indonesia on the TravelHealthPro website.
The Government of Indonesia requires that travellers from countries in which the World Health Organisation (WHO) has evidence of local transmission of COVID-19 (see WHO situation reports) should self-isolate for 14 days on arrival in Indonesia. Further travel restrictions in Indonesia or elsewhere may be introduced with little or no notice and may limit your ability to travel within Indonesia or to return to the UK.
More information is available regarding coronavirus in Indonesia via the Ministry of Health.
If you have existing travel plans between Indonesia and China, contact your travel company or airline for the latest information.
Medical treatment
The standard of local medical care can be poor and some medical tests can’t be done reliably. Psychological and psychiatric services are also limited throughout Indonesia.
Good medical care can be very expensive and in remote areas attention for serious injuries or illness is likely to be unavailable. You may require expensive medical evacuation costing up to tens of thousands of pounds. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation.
Air quality
Air quality in Indonesia’s major cities can reach levels considered ‘unhealthy for sensitive groups’ or ‘unhealthy’. Current air quality data for Jakarta can be found on the Air Quality Index website.
Health risks
Tap water is not potable throughout Indonesia.
Ash plumes from volcanoes can affect air quality and have an impact on health, particularly for anyone with pre-existing respiratory conditions. If you’re in the vicinity of a volcanic eruption and affected by subsequent ash fall, you can find further information in digital pamphlets issued by the International Volcanic Health Hazard Network (IVHHN), which cover the potential health hazards of volcanic ash and offer advice on how to prepare and cope with ash fall.
During the dry season (May-November), widespread forest fires can cause smoke haze resulting in poor air quality across parts of Indonesia, particularly Riau Islands, central Sumatra and Kalimantan. The haze can cause disruption to local and regional air travel, and the air pollution may have an impact on public health. Keep up to date with local information and seek medical advice on appropriate precautions. A regional haze map is available from the Singapore Meteorological Service.
There’s a risk of dengue fever in Bali, Jakarta and elsewhere in Indonesia which is particularly heightened during the rainy season (usually from around October to April).
UK health authorities have classified Indonesia as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For more information and advice visit the National Travel Health Network and Centre website for travel to Indonesia - including Bali, for travel to Indonesia - Borneo.
Rabies exists in domestic and wild animals. There are many street dogs in Bali and elsewhere. You should avoid direct contact with all dogs and cats (including pets), monkeys and other animals and seek immediate help if you’re bitten or scratched.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 118 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
Avian Influenza (bird flu)
Avian flu has led to over 150 confirmed human fatalities in Indonesia since 2003, although the annual rate appears to be declining. All cases so far have been linked to close contact with poultry.
Although the risk to humans from Avian Influenza is low, you should avoid visiting live animal markets, poultry farms and other places where you may come into close contact with domestic, caged or wild birds, and make sure poultry and egg dishes are thoroughly cooked.
