Indonesia sits along a volatile seismic strip called the ‘Ring of Fire’ in the Pacific. Volcanic eruptions and earthquakes occur regularly, which can present a potential threat of tsunamis. The capacity of the Indonesian emergency and rescue services to deal with large natural disasters is limited.
Earthquakes and tsunamis
The US Federal Emergency Management Agency has advice about what to do before, during and after an earthquake.
If a major earthquake or landslide occurs close to shore, you should follow the instructions of local authorities, bearing in mind that a tsunami could arrive within minutes. The Indonesia Tsunami Early Warning Centre issues tsunami warnings when a potential tsunami with significant impact is imminent or expected.
A number of areas across Indonesia are continuing to recover from the impact of earthquakes and/or tsunamis in 2018:
On Saturday 22 December 2018, volcanic activity caused a tsunami that affected the coastline around the Sunda Strait which lies between Western Java and the South of Sumatra causing significant damage, loss of life and casualties. The Mount Anak Krakatau volcano, located off the coast close to the affected areas, remains active.
On 28 September 2018, a 7.4 magnitude earthquake and tsunami hit Central Sulawesi on 28 September 2018, affecting the Donggala, Palu, Sigi and Parigi Moutong regions and causing significant loss of life, casualties and widespread damage. It remains an area significantly affected by disaster but recovery is ongoing and basic infrastructure has been restored in most parts. Commercial flights are running to and from Palu Mutiara Airport.
In July and August 2018, the north-east of the island of Lombok experienced a series of significant earthquakes followed by many aftershocks in the same area. The earthquakes killed over 500 people and caused significant damage to buildings and infrastructure in north and west Lombok. The Gili Islands (Gili Trawangan, Gili Meno and Gili Air) were also significantly affected by the earthquakes but have recovered rapidly, with utilities and transport connections restored.
The FCO no longer advise against all but essential travel to these areas. However, if travelling to Central Sulawesi, Lombok or the Gili islands you should exercise caution, particularly around damaged buildings and the most affected areas.
Information and advice on safety considerations in an active earthquake zone is available from the International Rescue Corps.
Volcanoes
There are many active volcanoes in Indonesia, any of which can erupt without warning resulting in the evacuation of villages within a 3 to 7 kilometre radius. In the past, repeated eruptions have caused destruction and fatalities. Check media reports before travelling to areas that are prone to volcanic activity. Take extra care and follow the advice of the local authorities, including respecting any exclusion zones.
During previous eruptions, areas beyond local exclusion zones have been affected by mud/debris flows (particularly in valleys) and volcanic ash falls. While near any volcano, you should therefore monitor local media, exercise caution and follow the advice of the local authorities, including any evacuation orders.
Ash clouds can affect flight schedules and the operation of regional airports. Check with your airline or travel company for the latest information.
If you’re travelling to areas of Indonesia where volcanic activity is ongoing, you should be aware that ash plumes can affect air quality and have an impact on health. Public Health England (PHE) advise that a properly fitted face mask may provide some protection. While masks should be available in Indonesia, you may choose to buy your own before you travel. PHE recommend masks that comply with EU standards P2 or P3 or the US standards N95 or N98. You should make sure that your mask fits your face and you know how to wear it properly.
If you have any pre-existing respiratory conditions, such as asthma, be aware that you might be at increased risk of triggering or worsening your symptoms. Make sure you travel with sufficient supplies of any regular medicines to cater for this.
In the event of a major eruption, areas outside of exclusion zones may be subject to increased levels of particulate and gaseous pollutants in the air. Face masks only offer protection against small particulate matter; they don’t protect against hazardous gases emitted by a volcano. Unless you’re advised to evacuate the area you’re in, the best way to reduce your exposure is to remain inside and close all doors and windows.Following eruptions in 2017 and 2018, some volcanoes continue to show signs of increased volcanic activity.
Mount Agung, Bali
The FCO advise against all travel to within 4 km of the crater. This is an exclusion zone put into place by the local authorities.
On 28 June 2018 Mount Agung in east Bali erupted, emitting gas and ash which resulted in the closure of Bali’s I Gusti Ngurah Rai Airport and a number of nearby regional airports for a period of time on 29 June 2018, causing flights to be cancelled and delayed. The alert level for Mount Agung remains at level 3 and there is a 4 km exclusion zone around the crater. Travellers to Bali may find this information for travel during the volcanic activity useful.
The authorities have indicated that Mount Agung continues to show signs of volcanic activity and the possibility of a volcanic eruption remains. The alert level for Mount Agung may change at short notice.
Eruptions in late 2017 and June 2018 led to periodic closures at Bali and Lombok airports and disruption to flights in the region. Further disruption can’t be ruled out. The local authorities have indicated that Mount Agung continues to show signs of volcanic activity and the possibility of volcanic eruptions remains.
Mount Sinabung, North Sumatra
The FCO advise against all travel to within 7km of the crater of Mount Sinabung in Kalo Regency, North Sumatra. This is an exclusion zone put into place by the local authorities.
Mount Sinabung produced a large ash cloud on 19 February 2018. The Indonesian authorities have set an alert status of Level 4 (highest) and are maintaining a 7km exclusion zone around the volcano. The authorities have indicated that Mount Sinabung continues to show signs of volcanic activity and the possibility of a volcanic eruption remains, though more recent eruptions of Mount Sinabung have not significantly disrupted local travel in Sumatra. The alert level for Mount Sinabung may change at short notice.
Floods
The Indonesian rainy season runs from September – January, but can run into February. You should monitor international / local weather reporting if travelling during rainy season.
Large areas of the country, including parts of West Sumatra, Central, East and West Java and Jakarta have been severely affected by heavy rains and subsequent landslides and flooding in recent years. Throughout Indonesia flash floods and more widespread flooding can occur. Cities - especially Jakarta - can suffer severe localised flooding which can result in major traffic congestion and power outages. The main toll road to Soekarno-Hatta International Airport and other major roads in Jakarta can be affected by flooding. Slips and landslides occur in mountainous and remote areas, but also in urban areas. Take care when driving and walking. Keep a stock of bottled water and make sure your phone is charged.
