Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

There are currently very limited commercial options available to return to the UK from Jakarta and no commercial options to return from Bali.
We know this is concerning for British people trying to leave Indonesia The UK government is working closely with airlines, the Indonesian authorities and other governments to make sure options are available for you to return to the UK as soon as possible.
International Flights
Remaining flight options from Jakarta are:
Qatar Airways has one flight daily from Jakarta via Doha. From 1 May, this service will operate on Monday, Wednesday and Friday only.
Garuda Indonesia fly from Jakarta to Amsterdam on 30 April and on 7, 14, 21, 28 and 31 May. Onward transfers are available from Amsterdam to the UK.
Garuda Indonesia/JAL flights from Jakarta via Tokyo Haneda airport on 3, 10, 17 and 31 May.
Before booking seats on any flights, check the entry and transit restrictions in place for countries on your proposed flight route. You should also check with your airline regularly ahead of your scheduled flight. The number of flights operating is reducing and continuing to change at short notice.
Domestic flights
Public health measures by the Indonesian authorities to restrict domestic travel connected with the Eid holiday, announced on 23 April, include a ban on most in-country air travel until 1 June.
There are some very limited exceptions. The exceptions currently include a small number of domestic flights, including from Bali to Jakarta, to enable foreign tourists to catch connecting international flights from Jakarta.
Passengers travelling on domestic flights will need: a certificate to confirm that they are free of COVID-19; a completed airline travel declaration form; and a letter from the British Embassy confirming that they are returning home. The Garuda airlines travel declaration form and our confirmation letter are available on our social media channels. The situation is fast moving and subject to change at very short notice. We will provide the latest updates on domestic flights through our social media channels.
What to do
If you cannot leave Indonesia at this time, you should:
follow the advice of local authorities, including local measures to help minimise your risk of exposure to coronavirus
find accommodation that’s suitable for your needs.
keep in regular contact with family and friends at home, so they know you are safe and well Seek more information and advice about staying where you are if you cannot return to the UK.
Future travel options
The UK government is working closely with airlines, the Indonesian authorities and other governments to make sure options are available for you to return to the UK as soon as possible.
This travel advice will be updated when departure options become available. Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British Embassy on Twitter and Facebook.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM is a commercial partner of the FCO and authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Your journey home
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British Embassy in Jakarta on +(62) (21) 2356 5200 (24/7, 365 days a year).
The Embassy cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone. This page will be updated when departure options become available. To get the latest information, sign up for travel advice email alerts.
Further information
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
