Coronavirus guidance is being updated.
Read what you can and cannot do

This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Indonesia as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Indonesia to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Indonesia
On 31 March the Indonesian government announced new regulations to enforce large scale social distancing which includes limiting the movement of people and goods, and the restricting of religious practices and activities in public areas.
Large-scale social restrictions (PSBB) in Jakarta have been extended until 22 May with possible further extensions if necessary. Though essential services will still be available, public activities (including schools, offices, religious activities, social and cultural gatherings and public transportation) will be limited. The government are also restricting public gatherings and crowds to limit the possibility of COVID-19 transmission. Criminal sanctions may apply for violations of the restrictions. We expect other regions to implement similar restrictions in the near future.
If you are visiting or living in Indonesia, you should comply with all local regulations and be aware that limitations may change at short notice.
Visas
The Indonesian Immigration authority emergency regulation on COVID-19 means that visa overstay fines will not apply to foreign nationals who entered Indonesia after 5 February.
For information on entering Indonesia, see Entry requirements.
Health
For contact details for English speaking doctors, visit our list of healthcare providers.
A British national died of COVID-19 on 11 March 2020 in Bali. The standard of local medical care in Indonesia can be poor and some medical tests cannot be done reliably. As the Government of Indonesia announces rising numbers of COVID-19 cases, there is an increasing risk that the healthcare system will come under significant further strain. Access to routine and emergency healthcare may be limited.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Indonesia.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
If you need further information about entry requirements, contact the local immigration authorities or the nearest Indonesian Embassy. You should also check with your airline or travel company for the latest information.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
You can find more information about cases in Indonesia on the TravelHealthPro website.
