The Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advise against all but essential travel to areas of Lombok north of the main east-west route from Pamenang, which passes north of the capital Mataram across to Lombok town (Jalan H. Mansur - Jalan Jendral Sudirman - Jalan Raya Mataram-Sikur - Jalan Raya Masbagik - Jalan Raya Anjani - Jalan Kooperasi - Jalan Raya Labuhan Lombok). This area includes the Gili Islands (Gili Trawangan, Gili Meno and Gili Air) and the Mount Rinjani National Park, but excludes Senggigi on the west coast and Kayangan port on the east coast.
There has been a series of earthquakes and aftershocks to the north-east of the island of Lombok since 29 July 2018. These have resulted in casualties and damage to buildings and infrastructure, most severely in northern and western areas of Lombok, north of the capital Mataram, and in the Gili Islands, where there continues to be power outages and a lack of clean water. If you’re in these areas, you should exercise caution, stay away from collapsed buildings, liaise with your travel company/accommodation provider, and follow the advice of the local authorities. Where possible, keep your family and friends up to date with your situation and itinerary. If you need consular assistance (for example, if your passport has been lost or if you’re injured), call the British Consulate in Bali on (+62) (21) 2356 5200. If you have remained on the Gili Islands and now wish to leave, contact the local Tourist Police on the islands for up-to-date information on departure options.
If you have essential upcoming travel in these areas or plan to travel for non-essential reasons against FCO advice, you should plan your journey very carefully, have robust contingency plans in place and check with your travel insurance provider. In other areas of Lombok, check any existing travel plans with your transport and accommodation providers before travelling, ensure you have travel insurance in place and keep up to date with developments, including through this travel advice.
Aftershocks have occurred, including some of a significant scale. These may continue in the region in the coming days and weeks. Risks may be especially elevated in the Gili Islands and areas of northern Lombok closest to the epicentre. Buildings that may appear unaffected could still have been weakened by the earthquakes, especially in the Gili Islands and areas of northern Lombok closest to the epicentre, and may be vulnerable to aftershocks. Landslides could occur, including in the Mount Rinjani National Park. Consider the safety of your accommodation, your potential exit routes and any other hazards in the vicinity. If you have concerns about the integrity of buildings or accommodation, move to a safe place. More information and advice on safety considerations in an active earthquake zone is available from the International Rescue Corps.
There have also been isolated reports of minor damage to buildings in southern Lombok and parts of Bali. Ngurah Rai (Denpasar) and Lombok airports and the major tourist resorts in Bali and southern Lombok are operating as normal.
The Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advise against all travel within 4 kilometres of the Mount Agung crater in east Bali and within 7 kilometres of the Mount Sinabung crater in Kalo Regency, North Sumatra due to ongoing volcanic activity. These are exclusion zones put in place by the local authorities. If you’re in either exclusion zone, you should leave immediately.
On 28 June 2018 Mount Agung in east Bali erupted, emitting gas and ash which resulted in the closure of Bali’s I Gusti Ngurah Rai Airport and a number of nearby regional airports for a period of time on 29 June 2018, causing flights to be cancelled and delayed. The alert level for Mount Agung remains at level 3 and there is a 4 kilometre exclusion zone around the crater. Travellers to Bali may find this information for travel during the volcanic activity useful.
On 11 May 2018, Mount Merapi, near Yogyakarta in central Java, erupted. The Indonesian authorities have set a 3km exclusion zone around the volcano. If you’re in the area, you should monitor local media, exercise caution and follow the advice of local authorities.
There are many active volcanoes in Indonesia, any of which can erupt with little or no warning. This often results in the evacuation of villages within a 3 to 7 kilometre radius and disruption to air travel in the wider region. In the past, repeated eruptions have caused destruction and fatalities. Check media reports before travelling to areas that are prone to volcanic activity. The local alert level may change at short notice. Take extra care and follow the advice of local authorities, including respecting any exclusion zones. See Natural disasters
Terrorists are very likely to try to carry out attacks in Indonesia. Terrorist groups continue to plan attacks and have the capacity and intent to carry out these attacks at anytime and anywhere in the country. Types of attacks have included suicide bombing and small-arms fire, targeting public and crowded places. Be vigilant and take care at all times.
On 13 May 2018 there were explosions outside 3 churches in Surabaya in East Java, and on 14 May there was an explosion at a security post of the city’s police headquarters. Both of these incidents resulted in a number of deaths and casualties. See Terrorism
You should exercise caution when travelling to Aceh, Central Sulawesi Province (especially Palu, Poso and Tentena), Maluku Province (especially Ambon), Papua and West Papua Province due to potential for violence or violent conflict. See Local travel
Around 360,000 British nationals visit Indonesia every year. Most visits are trouble free.
UK health authorities have classified Indonesia as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For more information and advice visit the National Travel Health Network and Centre website for travel to Indonesia - including Bali, for travel to Indonesia - Borneo.
Possession, trafficking and manufacture of drugs are serious offences in Indonesia. Some offences carry the death penalty. Don’t get involved. See Local laws and customs
There have been a number of deaths and cases of serious illness of tourists in Indonesia, caused by drinking alcoholic drinks contaminated with methanol. See Safety and security
To contact the emergency services call 111 or 112 (police), 118 or 119 (ambulance and rescue) or 113 (fire).
To contact the tourist police in Bali call 0361 7540599 or 0361 224111. To contact the tourist police in Jakarta call 021 526 4073.
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.
The Overseas Business Risk service offers information and advice for British companies operating overseas on how to manage political, economic, and business security-related risks.
Take out comprehensive travel and medical insurance before you travel.
