Terrorists are very likely to try to carry out attacks in Indonesia.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out more about the global threat from terrorism.
Terrorist groups have the capacity and intent to carry out attacks at anytime and anywhere in the country. Types of attacks have included suicide bombings and small-arms fire, targeting public and crowded places.
The threat from Islamist extremism remains high, though the Indonesian authorities continue to disrupt attack planning, including arresting alleged terrorists reportedly in the advanced stages of preparation.
In Central Sulawesi, there is on-going conflict between the Indonesian security forces and terrorists, including attacks upon police and civilians most recently in May 2021. This conflict is predominantly concentrated in the Poso region.
Indonesian government and law enforcement interests and places of worship are regularly targeted by extremists. Western interests are also at risk. Small-scale attacks occur on a regular basis and further incidents are likely. Attacks could be indiscriminate, including in places frequented by foreigners. Beach resorts, bars and restaurants, hotels, markets, shopping malls hosting major international brand outlets, tourist attractions, places of worship, foreign embassies, polling stations, ferry terminals and airports are all potential targets.
There’s a heightened risk during holiday periods. Exercise extra caution around:
Christmas, New Year and Easter period
Chinese New Year
Nyepi (Balinese New Year)
Islamic celebrations and holidays such as Ramadan
local elections
presidential inaugurations
annual Independence Day celebrations (17 August)
You should follow the advice of the local authorities, remaining particularly vigilant and maintaining a high level of security awareness in crowded places and at large gatherings.
Notable recent attacks include:
on 7 December 2022, a suicide bomber attacked a Police post on Jalan Astana Anyar, in Bandung, West Java, killing one police officer and injuring seven other police officers and one civilian
on 28 March 2021, a suicide attack took place outside the Cathedral Church at JaIan Kajaolalido, Makassar (a Catholic church in the city of Makassar)
on 1 June 2020, a police officer was killed and another injured during an attack on a police station in Kalimantan. Daesh is reported to have claimed responsibility
on 13 November 2019, a suicide bomber attacked the police headquarters in Medan, Sumatra, injuring 4 police officers and 2 civilians
on 14 May 2018, there was an explosion at a security post of police headquarters in Surabaya, East Java, causing a number of deaths and casualties
on 13 May 2018, there were explosions at three churches in Surabaya, causing a number of deaths and casualties
on 14 January 2016, there was an attack near the Sari Pan Pacific Hotel and Sarinah Plaza on Jalan M.H. Thamrin in central Jakarta. The attack included a number of explosions and gun battles. Eight people died and a number were injured, including foreigners
There is considered to be a heightened threat of terrorist attack globally against UK interests and British nationals, from groups or individuals motivated by the conflict in Iraq and Syria. You should be vigilant at this time.
Kidnap
There is a risk of kidnapping at sea in and around the waters of Indonesia. This risk is higher in the Sulu and Celebes seas.
The long-standing policy of the British government is not to make substantive concessions to hostage takers. The British government considers that paying ransoms and releasing prisoners increases the risk of further hostage taking.
