!
Warning
FCDO advises against all travel to parts of Indonesia.

Your travel insurance could be invalidated if you travel against advice from the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO).  
Areas where FCDO advises against all travel
Mount Lewotobi Laki-Laki, East Nusa Tenggara 
FCDO advises against all travel to within 7km of the crater of Mount Lewotobi Laki-Laki on Flores Island, East Nusa Tenggara Province. This is an exclusion zone put in place by the local authorities. Mount Lewotobi Laki-Laki erupted on 3 November 2024.
Mount Sinabung, North Sumatra
FCDO advises against all travel to within 5km of the Mount Sinabung crater in Karo Regency, North Sumatra. This is an exclusion zone put in place by the local authorities.
Mount Marapi, West Sumatra
FCDO advises against all travel to within 3km of the crater of Mount Marapi in West Sumatra. This is an exclusion zone put in place by the local authorities.
Mount Semeru, East Java
FCDO advises against all travel to:
within 5 km of the crater of Mount Semeru in Lumajang Regency, East Java
the south-east area of Mount Semeru along the Besuk Kobokan river, approximately 13km from the crater, and 500m from any Besuk Kobokan riverbank
These are exclusion zones put in place by the local authorities.
Mount Ruang, Northern Sulawesi
FCDO advises against all travel to within 7km of the crater of Mount Ruang in Northern Sulawesi. This is an exclusion zone put in place by the local authorities. Mount Ruang erupted on 16 April 2024.
Mount Ibu, North Maluku
FCDO advises against all travel to within 7km of the crater of Mount Ibu in North Maluku Province. This is an exclusion zone put in place by the local authorities. Mount Ibu erupted on 6 June 2024.
See more details about why FCDO advises against travel.
Flight disruptions due to volcanic activity
Flight disruptions have been reported at Bali International Airport due to volcanic ash from Mount Lewotobi Laki-Laki on Flores Island, and also at nearby regional airports. Check with your airline for updates. If your flight is affected, contact your airline and your travel insurer for alternative travel and accommodation arrangements.
Before you travel
No travel can be guaranteed safe. Read all the advice in this guide. You may also find it helpful to: 
see general advice for women travellers
read our guide on disability and travel abroad
see general advice for LGBT+ travellers
read about safety for solo and independent travel
see advice on volunteering and adventure travel abroad
Travel insurance
If you choose to travel, research your destinations and get appropriate travel insurance. Insurance should cover your itinerary, planned activities and expenses in an emergency.
About FCDO travel advice  
FCDO provides advice about risks of travel to help you make informed decisions. Find out more about FCDO travel advice.
Get travel advice updates
Sign up to get email notifications when this travel advice is updated.
Follow and contact FCDO:   
travel advice on X
travel advice on Facebook
Travel Aware on Instagram
