Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for the Netherlands on the TravelHealthPro website.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in the Netherlands.
Returning to the UK
Travelling from and returning to the UK
Check what you must do to travel abroad and return to England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
If you plan to pass through another country to return to the UK, check the travel advice for the country you’re transiting. If you will pass through a red list country, book your hotel quarantine package before travelling to the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements. The Dutch Municipal Health Service (GGD) can only be used for testing if you have COVID-19 symptoms. See the Dutch Government’s website for more details of how and where to get tested for travel purposes. Always check that the type of test and the test result certificate meets the full testing requirements (e.g. name of the test provider and their contact details, if appropriate) for entry into either England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in the Netherlands
The latest information on Dutch domestic coronavirus measures can be found on the Dutch government website (in English).
Where possible, the Dutch government advises to avoid crowds and to travel outside peak hours if taking public transport.
Face masks must be worn on public transport, in stations and on platforms by those aged 13 and over. If you do not wear a face mask as directed, you may be fined €95.
For other shared forms of transport, such as taxis, passenger vans and coaches, you must wear a face mask, unless you are the only passenger. If you’re travelling in a car or other private vehicle, you are advised to wear face masks if there are two or more people in the vehicle who belong to different households.
Children under the age of 13 are not required to wear a face mask.
People are now advised to wear a disposable face mask. The Dutch government advises against wearing fabric masks and homemade masks.
Schiphol, Eindhoven and Rotterdam Airports
All passengers and staff aged 13+ must wear face masks in all areas of these airports. The terminals are only open for passengers and staff. You must not be accompanied into the airport, unless absolutely necessary for a traveller with reduced mobility.
Ferries
DFDS
All travellers must wear face coverings at check-in, whilst boarding, and during disembarkation. This applies for both foot- and car passengers, as well as freight drivers. On the Amsterdam - Newcastle route, passengers must wear face coverings whilst moving around the ship. Face coverings do not need to be worn when travellers are in their cabins, seated in a socially distanced manner or whilst social distancing on outside decks.
P&O
All travellers must wear a face mask during their journey.
Eurostar
All passengers aged 13+ must wear a face mask on board trains, in stations and on platforms. If you don’t have a mask you may be refused travel on Eurostar services.
Public spaces and services
The Dutch Government has announced that nearly all sectors can reopen as of 26 January, with closing times at 10pm, limited capacity and strict entry and social distancing rules. A full overview of measures is available on the Dutch Government’s website. The Dutch government urgently advises people to avoid busy places. The maximum group size outdoors will be four people aged 13 and over (this does not apply to people from the same household).
You must keep 1.5 metres away from other people in public areas. You may be fined if you do not keep the 1.5 metre social distance. This applies to adults aged 18 years and over. This rule does not apply to people from the same household or to children. There are exemptions, for example on public transport, for medical contact professions and for those providing care, such as pushing a wheelchair. See the Dutch Government’s website for further information about social distancing rules and exemptions (currently only available in Dutch).
Face masks are mandatory for people aged 13 and over in all publicly accessible indoor spaces, including public transport and shops, cinemas and hospitality venues. When seated, you can take the face mask off. If you do not wear a face mask as directed, you may be fined. If it is not possible to maintain 1.5m social distance in outdoor areas such as shopping streets, you should also wear a face mask. For further information visit the Dutch Government’s website. People are now advised to wear a disposable face mask. The Dutch government advises against wearing fabric masks and homemade masks.
As of 26 January, all shops, contact professions, restaurants and bars, cinemas, theatres, music venues, museums, zoos and amusement parks allowed to open until 10pm. Gyms are allowed to be open according to normal opening hours. Events without assigned seating, such as festivals, are not yet permitted.
Everyone aged 13 and over must show a coronavirus entry pass at most publicly accessible indoor places such as restaurants, museums, theatres, zoos, amusement parks.
The coronavirus entry pass is a proof of vaccination, recovery or a negative test not older than 24 hours. Visit the website of the Dutch government for more information. The UK’s proof of COVID-19 vaccination record is accepted. If you are travelling with a printed PDF proof of vaccination status, it must date from 1 November 2021 to ensure that it can be scanned successfully.
Proof of vaccination is valid for 270 days after the final dose of your primary vaccination (one dose for Johnson & Johnson, two doses for other vaccines). 270 days after the final dose of the primary vaccination, you need a booster to be considered fully vaccinated. Currently there is no end date for the validity of the booster.
Accommodation
Tourists are not obliged to reserve their holiday accommodation before travelling to the Netherlands. See the Dutch government’s website for more information on tourist travel to the Netherlands.
Health
If you develop symptoms during your stay in the Netherlands, you must follow the advice of the local authorities. Information on this can be found on the Government of the Netherlands website.
You can find further information on the latest measures from the Dutch National Institute for Public Health (RIVM) and from the Dutch government.
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Netherlands.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in the Netherlands
Wherever possible British nationals should aim to be vaccinated in the country where they live. We will update this page when the Government of The Netherlands announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Netherlands’ national vaccination programme started in January 2021 and is currently using Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna vaccines. Janssen (Johnson and Johnson) may also be available. British nationals resident in The Netherlands are eligible for vaccination including children over the age of 12. If you are considering a vaccination for somebody in this age group, you should seek medical advice from their local healthcare provider. British Nationals aged 18-65 without a Citizen Services Number (BSN) can also be vaccinated. The Dutch government has issued information on the vaccination programme. If you are resident in the Netherlands, you should receive an invitation by letter or email when it is your turn to get the vaccination.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in The Netherlands, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
If you receive your COVID-19 vaccination in the Netherlands, you can get an EU Digital COVID Certificate from the national authorities. The Certificate proves that you have been vaccinated against COVID-19, received a negative test result, or recovered from COVID-19. It will help facilitate your travel within the EU and, in some countries, you can use it to demonstrate your COVID-19 status to businesses and other organisations. For further information visit the European Commission’s EU Digital COVID Certificate page.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
