There are commercial options to return to the UK from the Netherlands.
UK special charter flights will only operate for priority countries where commercial flights are not possible. You should not assume that these flights will become available in countries where commercial routes are operating.
If you are travelling via Belgium or France, please check FCO Travel Advice for those countries.
Travel options
The availability of transport from the Netherlands to the UK is subject to change. Many airlines and ferry operators are operating substantially reduced services for passenger traffic. You should check with your operator before departing. Travel options to transport hubs, such as airports, ferry terminals and train stations are also reduced. See Staying during coronavirus
Health Declaration
If you’re travelling to or from the Netherlands you should complete a health screening form and have it ready to show on request during your journey, whether you are at the departure airport, on the aircraft or at the arrival airport.
Ferries
P&O and Stena Line continue to operate with reduced services. The wearing of face masks is mandatory on board and in the ferry terminals with both P&O and Stena Line. Check with your operator for details before travelling.
Flights
The DFDS Ijmuiden-Newcastle service is suspended until 30 June.
Some airlines, including British Airways, KLM and Ryanair are operating flights to the UK on a much reduced service. Please check airline websites, including comparison websites for the latest times and information.
The wearing of face masks is compulsory on all British Airways, KLM and Ryanair flights. Passengers are responsible for providing their own face masks.
Schiphol Airport
The wearing of face masks is compulsory for all travellers aged 13+ at the check-in desks, security checks and boarding areas. The terminals are only open for passengers and staff. must not be accompanied into the airport, unless absolutely necessary for a traveller with reduced mobility. Check the Schiphol website for further details.
Eindhoven and Rotterdam Airports
The wearing of face masks is compulsory for all travellers aged 13+. The mask must be worn in the terminals. The terminals are only open for passengers and staff. Passengers must not be accompanied into the airport, unless absolutely necessary for a traveller with reduced mobility.
The British Embassy is issuing regular updates on Twitter with the latest available information on departure options from the Netherlands.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK.
For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Your journey home: re-entering the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK. You:
need to provide your journey and contact details up to 48 hours before you’re due to arrive in the UK
are not allowed to leave the place you’re staying for the first 14 days you’re in the UK except in very limited situations (known as ‘self-isolating’)
See also the list of people who are exempt from the border rules.
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) also provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
Help and support
Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British Embassy in the Netherlands on Twitter and Facebook.
If you cannot leave Netherlands
If you cannot leave Netherlands at this time, see advice on staying in Netherlands during coronavirus.
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
