

Terrorism 
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.     
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in the Netherlands
Terrorists are likely to try to carry out attacks in the Netherlands.
Attacks could be indiscriminate, including in places visited by foreign nationals. You should remain aware of your surroundings, keep up to date with local media reports and follow the advice of local authorities.
On 12 December 2023 the Netherlands raised its National Terrorist Threat Level. This means that they assess there is a heightened risk of a terrorist attack in the Netherlands.
Crime
Violence on 7 November
In response to violence on 7 November in Amsterdam city centre against visiting Israeli football supporters, the Amsterdam Municipality have put extra policing measures in place. If you are in Amsterdam, check the local guidance.
Protecting your belongings
Pickpocketing and bag-snatching are common, particularly in central Amsterdam and around Amsterdam Central Station. Thieves often operate in gangs on the trains and trams to and from Schiphol airport and Central Station. One thief distracts you while another steals your bag. Sleeping on trains can make you an easy target.
Thieves enter restaurants on the pretext of selling something or looking for someone. They steal bags while people are distracted.
You should:
keep sight of your luggage and belongings – especially when checking into hotels
keep valuables securely on your person
avoid hanging bags or jackets on the back of a chair in restaurants
avoid falling asleep in public or on public transport
Fake police scams
Amsterdam police have warned of criminals using false police identities to trick tourists into handing over cash and credit cards. They will usually say that it is part of an investigation into counterfeit money or false credit cards. Be very cautious about any approaches.
Genuine plain-clothes police will rarely carry out this type of inspection. Dutch police do not have shiny badges, which the fake police sometimes present as ID.
Call 0900 8844 to contact the nearest police station if you are unsure whether a police person is genuine.   
Drug sellers
Avoid confrontation with anyone offering you drugs. Stay away from quiet or dark alleys, particularly late at night.
Drink spiking  
There is a risk of drink spiking, particularly for young women and solo travellers. Do not leave your drink unattended. If you are in a group, make sure you stay together.
If you think your drink has been spiked, seek immediate medical help and contact the police.
Laws and cultural differences
Personal ID
Anyone aged 14 or over must always be able to show identification. British nationals should use their passport as ID. Dual nationals can show a Dutch driving licence, Dutch passport or identity card.
For people aged 16 or over who fail to comply with the requirement to identify themselves, the fine is 100 euros. For persons aged 14 and 15, the fine is 50 euros.
Illegal drugs and prison sentences
The Netherlands has a reputation for being tolerant on the use of ‘soft drugs’, such as cannabis. However, drug use is only tolerated in designated premises in the major cities. Buying or possessing prohibited drugs and substances outside of designated areas is illegal and can result in a prison sentence.
Smoking soft drugs in public places is illegal. There are specific cafés where it is legal to purchase and use cannabis in limited quantities and under strict conditions.
The sale of dry and fresh psychoactive mushrooms is illegal. However, the truffle (sclerotium) form of psychoactive (psilocybin) mushrooms is not covered under Dutch law (Opium Act) and is still sold in regulated ‘smart shops’.
Be extremely careful as mixing alcohol, cannabis and wild mushrooms can be fatal.
Canal laws and dangers
Every year people drown in the canals of Amsterdam and in canals elsewhere in the Netherlands. The majority of drownings happen after heavy drinking or smoking cannabis. Take care when walking beside canals.
If police catch you swimming in the Amsterdam canals, they will fine you 160 euros. They will also fine you for urinating in the canals.
Transport risks
Road travel
If you are planning to drive in the Netherlands, see information on driving abroad and check the rules of the road in the RAC’s Netherlands guide. The guide lists driving regulations and other legal requirements you need to be aware of.
You can drive in the Netherlands on a UK driving licence. Always carry your:
driving licence
insurance documents
vehicle documents
photo ID such as a passport or residence permit
If you are driving a vehicle that does not belong to you, you may need written permission from the registered owner. You are not allowed to drive on a provisional licence.
Check if you need a UK sticker to drive your car outside the UK.
If you’re living in the Netherlands, check the driving requirements for residents.
Driving regulations
Traffic offences can carry heavy, on-the-spot fines. If you pay a fine, always ask for a receipt.
Watch out for trams. They have priority over other traffic. You must stop if a tram or a bus stops in the middle of the road to let passengers on and off.
Speed cameras, speed traps and unmarked vehicles are widely used. Motorway speed limits can vary. You must follow overhead illuminated lane indicators when in use.
Look out for cyclists and mopeds, who have right of way over motor vehicles and often ignore road traffic rules and red lights.
Pedestrian safety
Be on the look-out for cyclists, mopeds and trams when crossing roads, especially on zebra crossings. If you do not use marked crossings on roads, you could be fined for jaywalking.
Cycle paths are busy and cyclists ride at speed.
