This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Netherlands as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Netherlands to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Netherlands
For information on entering Netherlands, see Entry Requirements
The Dutch government has started to relax domestic coronavirus measures. The latest information on the Dutch government’s response to the coronavirus can be found here (in English).
From 1 June 2020 it became a requirement for passengers aged 13 and over to wear a non-medical face mask on trams, buses, water buses, metros and trains. Passengers who do not wear a face mask on public transport after 1 June can be fined €95. In stations, on platforms and at bus and tram stops face masks are not required, but people must stay 1.5 metres away from others.
Public transport should be used for essential travel only. Users should avoid rush hour and keep as far apart as possible.
Health
You can find further information on the latest measures from the Dutch National Institute for Public Health (RIVM) and from the Dutch government.
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Netherlands.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Netherlands, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
