Coronavirus health information
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Belgium on the TravelHealthPro website.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Belgium.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements. You should contact local authorities for information on testing facilities.
Check what you must do to enter England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. Belgian authorities are likely to conduct calls to check you are quarantining. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
make arrangements to quarantine at your hotel or the place you were staying (rules for what you can and cannot do during quarantine are found on the Belgian government’s website under ‘What should I do?’)
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Public spaces and services
The Belgian government has a number of measures in place to limit the spread of COVID-19, including the wearing of face masks on public transport, at stations and airports, in healthcare facilities and at hairdressers, nail salons and other contact service providers. Nightclubs are now allowed to open. In order to enter, you must demonstrate your Covid free status through the Belgian Covid Safe Ticket (CST) system. This allows entry on the basis of a vaccination certificate with a QR code that is recognised by Belgium, including the NHS COVID Pass.
These measures are kept under active review and are subject to an ongoing assessment of local conditions. There are also currently significant regional differences in the implementation of measures. You should regularly check the website of the relevant city or town and the Belgian government advice website for the latest detailed information.
Brussels
In Brussels there are a number of additional measures:
Masks remain mandatory inside shops and many other enclosed spaces.
From 15 October, persons going to restaurants, bars, cafés, museums and galleries must demonstrate their COVID-free status through the Belgian Covid Safe Ticket (CST) system, which allows entry on the basis of a vaccination certificate with a QR code that is recognised by Belgium, including the NHS COVID Pass. The CST system is not required for the use of outdoor terraces or for the collection of take-away food.
The CST system will also be in use for events with more than 50 people indoors or 200 people outdoors.
Tables in restaurants, bars and cafés are limited to eight people, unless all people are from the same household group.
Flanders
Most restrictions in Flanders, including limits on social gatherings and in the hospitality sector, have been removed.
Events can take place without restrictions with up to 200 people indoors and 400 people outdoors. Over these limits, an event can take place without restrictions if facilitated by the Belgian Covid Safe Ticket system (CST) as proof of vaccination. Those vaccinated with an NHS vaccine (England, Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland) will be able to present their certificate with QR code as proof of vaccination in order to gain access.
Wallonia
Wallonia is due to introduce similar measures to Brussels regarding the use of the Covid Safe Ticket by the end of October, although there may be regional variations. You should continue to follow the guidance for your local area
Accommodation
All types of accommodation are permitted to open subject to compliance with general rules related to COVID-19. Details are available on the Belgian Government website. Check with your accommodation provider for further information.
Healthcare in Belgium
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
If you think you have COVID-19 symptoms, you should follow the guidelines set out by the Belgian Government.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Belgium
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Belgium
We will update this page when the Government of Belgium announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Belgium national vaccine programme started in January 2021 and is using the Pfizer-BioNTech, Moderna, AstraZeneca and Janssen (Johnson and Johnson) vaccines. The Government of Belgium has stated that British nationals resident in Belgium are eligible for vaccination if they choose to join the programme. Further information on vaccinations can be found on the Belgian government COVID-19 vaccination website.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in Belgium, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
If you receive your COVID-19 vaccination in Belgium, you can get an EU Digital COVID Certificate from the national authorities. The Certificate proves that you have been vaccinated against COVID-19, received a negative test result, or recovered from COVID-19. It will help facilitate your travel within the EU and, in some countries, you can use it to demonstrate your COVID-19 status to businesses and other organisations. For further information visit the European Commission’s EU Digital COVID Certificate page.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
Check the guidance published by the Belgian Government if you require any additional information
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
