This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Belgium set and enforce entry rules. For further information contact their embassy. You may also check with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and travel documents meet their requirements.
If you are travelling to Belgium for work, read the guidance on visas and permits as the rules have changed since 1 January 2021.
Entry rules in response to coronavirus (COVID-19)
Belgium operates a travel colour code traffic light system, identifying very high, high, medium and low risk regions. Entry requirements vary depending on the colour code assigned to the country or region a person is travelling from, and whether an individual is resident in Belgium or another country.
There are also different entry requirements for travellers aged 12 and over who are fully vaccinated (classified as being from two weeks after a final dose) and unvaccinated. See ‘Demonstrating your COVID-19 status’ below.
Entering Belgium from the UK
The UK is currently classified as red zone (high risk) on the Belgian government’s travel colour code system. If you do not hold a Belgian, EU Digital COVID Certificate or an equivalent recognised by Belgium such as a NHS COVID Pass or certificate with a QR code from England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland, you are considered to be unvaccinated by the Belgian government and should follow entry requirements for unvaccinated travellers.
Travellers who are fully vaccinated with a Belgian, EU Vaccination Certificate or an NHS COVID Pass or certificate with a QR code (England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland)
If you do not have Belgian residency you must:
complete a Passenger Locator Form (PLF), unless you fall under a very limited list of exemptions listed on the Belgian government website (under the Transport and International section)
do a pre-departure test. This can be a RAT test either the day before arrival or the day of arrival or PCR test no more than 72 hours before you arrive in Belgium. This test must be negative
take a PCR test on day 1 after arrival and quarantine until you receive a negative result
take a further PCR test on day 7 after arrival
If you have Belgian residency, you do not have to take a pre-departure test. Travellers who are not coming to Belgium via a carrier (for example, those travelling by car via France) and who have been abroad for a maximum of 48 hours or who will be staying in Belgium for a maximum of 48 hours, do not need to fill in a PLF and therefore do not need to present a test certificate or test on arrival. You should continue to follow the guidance for any country which you will be travelling through.
The Belgian Government guidance defines a “carrier” as:
a public or private air carrier;
public or private maritime transport;
an inland waterway carrier;
a public or private train or bus operator for transport from a country outside the European Union and the Schengen area (this includes the Eurostar)
If any of the test results are positive, you must self-isolate in line with Belgian government guidance.
Further details are listed on the Belgian government’s website.
Travellers who are not fully vaccinated, or vaccinated with a vaccine or certificate not recognised by Belgium
If you fall under this category you will only be able to travel to Belgium for a very limited set of reasons, set out on the Belgian government’s website (under the Transport and International section).
You must:
carry documentation that proves your essential reason for travel. You may need an Essential Travel Certificate. Applications need to be submitted to the Embassy of Belgium in the UK at least five days before your departure
complete a Passenger Locator Form (PLF), unless you fall under an exemption listed on the Belgian government website (under the Transport and International section)
non-residents must provide evidence of a negative PCR test, taken within 72 hours before arrival or a RAT test the day before arrival or the day of arrival
quarantine for 10 days on arrival and take a PCR or RAT test on day 1 and day 7. If the day 7 result is negative, you may end quarantine early
Residents of Belgium who fall under this category will be able to enter Belgium, but should also be prepared to show valid proof of residence. Children under 12 do not need to be tested but must respect the quarantine requirements that apply to the adult(s) with whom they are travelling. A list of exemptions from quarantine and testing requirements is included on the Belgian government website.
Children under 18
Children under 18 can travel with a fully vaccinated adult without the requirement for an essential travel certificate. Those over 12 who are not fully vaccinated must follow quarantine requirements. Belgium do not consider children who have received one dose of the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine to be fully vaccinated.
Demonstrating your COVID-19 status
Belgian authorities will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 vaccination record and proof of COVID-19 vaccination issued in the Crown Dependencies. These must include a verifiable QR code. Your final vaccine dose must have been administered 14 days prior to travel. If you are travelling with a printed PDF proof of vaccination status, it must date from 1 November 2021 to ensure that the certificate can be scanned successfully. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
Entering Belgium from other countries
You should consult the list of countries that fall under the red, orange and green categories and those identified as high risk on the Belgian government website before travel. Full details of the rules that apply including certification, testing and quarantine requirements are also outlined.
From 17 September, the Brussels Capital Region introduced new measures requiring all travellers arriving from a red zone (including certain regions within the EU) who have not been fully vaccinated to follow a mandatory ten-day quarantine requirement and undergo COVID-19 testing on the first and seventh day. Quarantine can be ended if the day 7 test proves to be negative. These additional measures do not apply in Flanders or Wallonia.
Travellers arriving by aeroplane, boat, train or bus from outside the EU or Schengen area and those coming from within the EU and staying in Belgium for more than 48 hours, must complete the Belgian Passenger Locator Form (PLF) before travel. You must carry proof of the completed PLF throughout your journey and for the following 48 hours. Further details are on the Belgian government’s website.
Further information
Further information on how to quarantine is available on the Belgian government’s website, together with further details on how and when to get tested.
If you are travelling through France, you should also check the France Travel Advice.
Please note that transport services are subject to change, so please check with your transport operator before travel, including whether they will require evidence of a negative COVID-19 test before boarding. Further information on travel to Belgium can be found on the Belgian government Coronavirus website.
Regular entry requirements
Visas
The rules for travelling or working in European countries changed on 1 January 2021:
you can travel to countries in the Schengen area for up to 90 days in any 180-day period without a visa. This applies if you travel as a tourist, to visit family or friends, to attend business meetings, cultural or sports events, or for short-term studies or training
if you are travelling to Belgium and other Schengen countries without a visa, make sure your whole visit is within the 90-day limit. Visits to Schengen countries within the previous 180 days before you travel count towards your 90 days
to stay longer, to work or study, for business or for other reasons, you will need to meet the Belgian government’s entry requirements. Check with the Belgian Embassy what type of visa and/or work permit, you may need
if you stay in Belgium with a residence permit or long-stay visa, this does not count towards your 90-day visa-free limit
Any time you spent in Belgium or other Schengen countries before 1 January 2021 does not count towards your 90-day visa-free limit.
At Belgian border control, you may need to queue in separate lanes from EU, EEA and Swiss citizens.
Check your passport is stamped if you enter or exit the Schengen area through Belgium as a visitor. Border guards will use passport stamps to check you’re complying with the 90-day visa-free limit for short stays in the Schengen area. If relevant entry or exit stamps are not in your passport, border guards will presume that you have overstayed your visa-free limit.
You can show evidence of when and where you entered or exited the Schengen area, and ask the border guards to add this date and location in your passport. Examples of acceptable evidence include boarding passes and tickets.
You may also need to:
show a return or onward ticket
show you have enough money for your stay
If you are resident in Belgium your passport should not be stamped. You should proactively show your proof of residence as well as your valid passport at Belgian border control. For further information,see our Living in Belgium guide.
Passport validity
Check your passport is valid for travel before you book your trip, and renew your passport if you do not have enough time left on it.
Make sure your passport is:
valid for at least 3 months after the day you plan to leave Belgium, or any other Schengen country
less than 10 years old
The 3 months you need when leaving a country must be within 10 years of the passport issue date.
If you renewed your current passport before the previous one expired, extra months may have been added to its expiry date. Any extra months on your passport over 10 years may not count towards the minimum 3 months needed.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are accepted for entry, airside transit and exit from Belgium.
