Coronavirus guidance is being updated.
Read the Prime Minister’s statement for the latest information.

The commercial options to return to the UK from Belgium are currently limited. If you live in the UK and are currently visiting Belgium, you’re strongly advised to return now by commercial means. Don’t run the risk of getting stranded.
UK special charter flights will only operate for priority countries where commercial flights are not possible. You should not assume that these flights will become available in countries where commercial routes are operating. Please do not contact the contracted travel management company if no flight is advertised here.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK.
For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Flights
There are currently no direct commercial flights to the UK. There may be routes via other countries to the UK.
Eurostar
Eurostar is currently running one train service per day in each direction. Eurostar passengers are required to wear a face mask or face covering at stations and on board trains. Check the Eurostar website for further details.
Travel via France
The French government have implemented their own measures. Before travelling through France, check our travel advice for France.
Road and ferry
Road links in Belgium are running smoothly, though you may experience some delays due to border checks. The P&O ferry service from Zeebrugge to Hull is no longer operating. Freight crossings to the UK are continuing with limited places for truck drivers only.
Your journey home: re-entering the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK. You:
need to provide your journey and contact details up to 48 hours before you’re due to arrive in the UK
are not allowed to leave the place you’re staying for the first 14 days you’re in the UK except in very limited situations (known as ‘self-isolating’)
See also the list of people who are exempt from the border rules.
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) also provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
Help and support
Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British Embassy on Twitter and Facebook.
If you cannot leave Belgium
If you cannot leave Belgium at this time, see advice on staying in Belgium during coronavirus
See more information and advice about staying where you are if you cannot return to the UK.
