

Terrorism 
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.      
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Belgium
Terrorists are likely to try to carry out attacks in Belgium.
Terrorism attacks could be indiscriminate, including in places frequented by foreign nationals such as:
public transport
national and international transport hubs
music, sporting and cultural events
entertainment establishments and nightlife venues
government buildings and international institutions
places of worship and religious sites
You should be vigilant in public places and follow the advice of local authorities.
There have been some high-profile terrorist attacks across Belgium. The main threat is from extremists linked to Daesh (formerly referred to as ISIL). Previous incidents have included fatal attacks against civilians and law enforcement:
on 16 October 2023, 2 people were killed and one seriously injured in a terrorism-related shooting incident in Brussels
in 2022, a police officer was killed and another injured in a suspected terrorist incident in Brussels
The Belgian authorities have successfully disrupted various attack plans, making a number of arrests in recent years. The Belgian government has set the national threat level at 3 ‘Serious’. You can expect to see an increased police presence, and additional safety measures may be in place. Be aware of your surroundings and follow the advice of local authorities.  
Demonstrations and strikes
Demonstrations and strikes often take place in major cities, particularly in transport hubs and around the Schuman area (EU quarter) in Brussels.
Most demonstrations are peaceful, but there is a risk of unrest or violence. There has also been violence following major sporting fixtures. Demonstrations by farmers can block major roads and delay traffic. Demonstrations in the Schuman area can affect access to the British Embassy and the British Consulate General.
Strike action is an ongoing issue that can cause severe travel disruption across the country and affect international travel. Strike action may be announced at short notice and planned strike action may be extended at short notice. Strikes can coincide with demonstrations and protests.
For regular updates on any disruption, check local news and follow advice given by your travel provider. If you are in areas where large gatherings are taking place, remain vigilant and move away quickly if there are signs of disorder. Avoid protests, expect delays on some major roads and follow the advice of the authorities.
For information on travel in Belgium, visit:
Belgian Railways (train and metro travel)
Brussels, Walloon and Flemish (regional public transport)
HERE map
For international travel, visit:
Brussels Airport Zaventem
Charleroi Airport
Antwerp Airport
Security awareness
In the event of a security incident or any emergency, or if police carry out security operations at short notice, follow the instructions of the Belgian authorities.
You can:
find information on the Belgian Crisis Centre website
follow the Crisis Centre accounts on X or Facebook to follow official information in the event of a major national incident
sign up to BE-Alert to receive emergency alerts on SMS
look for the official communication and social media channels of local police for the area you are in
Crime
Protecting yourself and your belongings
Theft and pickpocketing are common in crowded areas. Take care of your baggage and passports and beware of any attempts to distract you.
Take extra care in major railway stations and on public transport, particularly at night. Thieves, pickpockets and muggers operate in busy areas, and there have been cases of violent robbery. Be aware of your surroundings particularly:
at Brussels Gare du Midi/Zuidstation (Eurostar terminal) and Brussels Gare du Nord
on international trains, mainly Paris-Brussels and Amsterdam-Brussels
in busy areas of central Brussels, including Schuman (the EU quarter)
Never leave luggage unattended. Luggage has been stolen from the racks at the end of carriages in high-speed trains (TGV and Thalys), usually just before the doors close.
Thieves, usually on motorbikes, can break a car window and snatch valuables from the front or back passenger seat when a vehicle is stationary at traffic lights. If you see anything suspicious, report it to local police authorities.
Additionally, be aware that drug use may be seen openly in train and metro stations across Brussels.
Taxis
Only use official, licensed taxis. Do not get into taxis that stop to offer rides.
Organised crime
There are regular incidents of violent crime among organised crime gangs involved in drug trafficking, particularly in Brussels, Antwerp and other large cities. Confrontations between rival gangs have led to violent incidents including shootings, stabbings, and use of homemade explosives. The risk mostly affects those involved in drug crime, but there is always the risk of being in the wrong place at the wrong time. Remain vigilant if you suspect illegal activity. Follow the advice of local authorities.
There have been reports of truck and van drivers being approached at parking lots or service stations by organised crime groups and asked to smuggle products to the UK (‘window tapping’). If you see anything suspicious, report it to local police authorities.
Laws and cultural differences
Personal ID
You must carry your passport with you at all times.         
Laws on clothing
It is illegal to wear clothing that hides your face partially or completely (for example, the burka and niqab) in public places. You risk a fine of up to 137 euros and detention for up to 7 days. There is no exemption for tourists.
Illegal drugs
Possession, use, or trafficking of illegal drugs, including cannabis, are serious offences and can lead to a minimum 3-month prison sentence, long jail terms, or heavy fines. You should expect severe penalties even when transiting through the airport.
 Airports in Belgium have excellent technology and security for detecting illegal items. This is also used to scan the baggage of transiting passengers.
Visiting battlefields
When visiting WW1 battlefields in north-west Belgium, stay on the footpaths and be cautious if you see anything that looks like shells or munitions. Unexploded shells have recently been uncovered. Move away from the site and report incidents to the police.
Transport risks
Road travel
If you are planning to drive in Belgium, see information on driving abroad. Read the government information on driving laws in Belgium (in Flemish and French).
When driving in Belgium, always carry:
your driving licence
your car registration documents
your insurance paper
your MOT (‘contrôle technique’) certificate
your passport and your passengers’ passports
If you live in Belgium, see driving requirements for residents.
Driving regulations
Driving laws differ from those in the UK. Be aware that:
police use speed traps, cameras and unmarked vehicles
speeding can result in an on-the-spot fine
using a mobile phone while driving is illegal, unless you are using hands-free equipment
Belgium’s accident rate is high, mainly due to speeding.
If you get a fine, you can consult the federal justice service for information.
Low emission zones
There are low emission zones in Brussels, Ghent and Antwerp. You need to pre-register foreign vehicles on the Brussels , Ghent or Antwerp websites.
Electric scooter regulations
The maximum speed limit for riding an electric scooter is 25kph and riding with a passenger is illegal. Riding a scooter on the pavement is prohibited with the exception of people with reduced mobility using a mobility scooter.
It is illegal for people aged under 16 to use electric scooters, except in a few designated areas.        
