This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Belgium as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Belgium to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Belgium
For information on entering Belgium, see Entry Requirements
On 24 April, the Belgian Government announced plans to gradually relax domestic measures. The Belgian Government publish updates on their website.
Local measures include limiting travel to journeys that are absolutely necessary. Such journeys include:
to buy food
to seek medical care
to exercise
urgent family reasons including childcare or assisting vulnerable people
journeys to work where working from home is not possible.
You must respect social distancing requirements at all times, including on public transport.
The wearing of masks is mandatory on public transport and in other public locations where it is not possible to maintain a 1.5 metre distance from others. Further details have been published by the Belgian Government (in English).
There are restrictions on group recreational, cultural and sporting activities. Restaurants (including those inside hotels), nightclubs and bars are closed.
The Belgian Government plans to gradually relax measures in phases, but this is subject to their ongoing assessment of local conditions and it is possible that measures may be reintroduced. You should check Belgian Government advice regularly for the latest detailed information.
Travel operators are restricting their services. British nationals who wish to leave Belgium are advised to contact their travel operator to make arrangements to do so as soon as possible. Find out how to return to the UK from Belgium.
Health
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Belgium
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Belgium, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
