The FCDO advises against all but essential travel to:
the whole of Belgium based on the current assessment of COVID-19 risks.
Travel is subject to entry restrictions
British nationals that are not resident in Belgium or another EU or Schengen country are only permitted entry to Belgium for essential reasons. Those travelling will need to carry evidence of their essential reason for travel
British nationals resident in Belgium will be able to enter, but will need to show valid proof of residence on entry
All non-residents aged six years and over travelling from the UK will need to provide evidence of a negative COVID-19 PCR test upon entry
All travellers arriving directly from the UK, including those resident in Belgium, must complete the Belgian Passenger Locator Form before travel. Travellers who have not completed the form before travelling may be refused entry and/or face a fine
All travellers from the UK must quarantine for 10 days on arrival and take a test on the first and seventh day of their quarantine.
Please see Entry Requirements for further information.
Preparing for your return journey to the UK
If you’re returning to the UK from overseas, you will need to:
provide your journey and contact details before you travel
check if you need to self-isolate on your return
If your return journey to the UK transits another country, you should check whether it is subject to a travel ban or any other additional requirements. If so, contact your travel provider.
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
If you’re planning travel to Belgium, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCDO’s guidance on foreign travel insurance.
For information about COVID-19 vaccines, see the Coronavirus page.
There are rules about taking food and drink into the EU. See Taking food and drink into Belgium for further information.
Travelling via Calais? Check travel advice for France.
If you’re currently living in or moving to Belgium, check the Living in Belgium guide in addition to this travel advice.
Demonstrations often take place in Brussels, including around transport hubs and the Schuman area. See Demonstrations
Theft and pickpocketing is a problem in crowded areas. Take care of your belongings and passports at all train stations in Brussels. See Crime
Terrorists are likely to try to carry out attacks in Belgium. Attacks could happen anywhere, including on public transport and transport hubs and in other places visited by foreigners. See Terrorism
Security operations are likely to be carried out at short notice. You should remain vigilant and follow the instructions of the Belgian authorities. Police have asked the public not to comment on police operations on social media. You can find more information on the Belgian Crisis Centre website and Twitter channel.
If you need to contact the emergency services, call 112.
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.
The Overseas Business Risk service offers information and advice for British companies operating overseas on how to manage political, economic, and business security-related risks.
