Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Peru on the TravelHealthPro website.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
Passengers at the airport will need to follow strict regulations, including the mandatory use of masks and facial protectors (usually a clear plastic full-face covering) and social distancing.
Commercial airlines are operating to and from Peru. If travelling via another country, it is essential you check the travel advice for that country, as some currently do not permit transit to/from the UK.
Iberia is flying from Lima to Madrid and Madrid to Lima on a weekly basis.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Peru.
Travel in Peru
On 15 March 2020, Peru announced a national State of Emergency, which has now been extended until at least 31 May April 2021. The latest tier-based regulations will also be in effect until at least 30 May.
Peru has been divided in three tier system (Extreme, Very High and High)
Extreme Tier: includes Huarmey province (region of Ancash), Abancay, Chincheros and Grau provinces (region of Apurimac), Islay province (region of Arequipa), Huamanga, Huanta and La Mar provinces (region of Ayacucho), Hualgayoc province (region of Cajamarca), Tayacaja province (region of Huancavelica), Ambo and Leoncio Prado provinces (region of Huanuco), Chanchamayo, Concepcion, Jauja, Satipo, Tarma and Yauli provinces (region of Junin), Viru province (region of La Libertad), Chiclayo and Lambayeque provinces (region of La Libertad), , Tambopata province (region of Madre de Dios), , Anta, Canchis and Cusco provinces (region of Cusco), Chincha province (region of Ica), , Oxapampa province (region of Pasco), Bellavista and Lamas provinces (region of San Martin) and Puno, Melgar, San Roman and Yunguyo provinces (region of Puno).
Curfew from 9pm to 4am from Monday to Saturday, and Sundays all day
Ban on the use of private cars on Sundays
Beaches, rivers and lakes are closed
Interprovincial land passengers transport: open with 50% to 100% capacity, regulated by the Ministry of Transport
Activities in closed spaces:
Casinos, gyms, movie theatres, performing arts: open with 20% capacity
Shopping centres, galleries, department stores, shops: open with 20% capacity
Groceries shops, supermarkets, markets, drugstores: open with 40% capacity. Drugstore delivery service available 24 hours a day.
Restaurants (internal areas with ventilation): open with 30% capacity and previous booking. Delivery service available until 11pm
Churches: open with 20% capacity
Libraries, museums, archaeological sites, cultural centres and galleries: open with 30% capacity
Clubs and sport associations: open with 30% capacity
Hairdressers, spas, facial massages, manicure, make up services (with ventilation): open with 40% capacity and previous appointments
Banks: open with 40% capacity
Activities in open spaces: No capacity limits and respecting protocols, with local governments’ previous authorisation
Performing arts
Cultural teaching
Restaurants in open spaces
Protected natural areas, botanic gardens and zoos
Clubs and sport associations in open spaces
Very High Tier:includes the regions of Lima, Moquegua, Piura, Tacna, Tumbes, Ucayali, Amazonas, Apurimac (except for Abancay, Chincheros and Grau provinces), La Libertad (except for Trujillo, Santiago de Chuco and Viru provinces), Ancash (except for Huarmey province), Arequipa (except for Islay province), Ayacucho (except for Huamanga, La Mar and Huanta provinces), Cajamarca (except for Hualgayoc province), Cusco (except for Cusco, Anta and Canchis provinces), Huancavelica (except for Tayacaja province), Huanuco (except for Ambo and Leoncio Prado provinces), Ica (except for Chincha province), Junin (except for Chanchamayo, Tarma, Concepcion, Jauja, Satipo and Yauli provinces), Lambayeque (except for Chiclayo and Lambayeque provinces), La Libertad (except for Viru province), Madre de Dios (except for Tambopata province), Pasco (except for Oxapampa province), Puno (except for Melgar, Puno, San Roman and Yunguyo provinces), San Martin (except for Bellavista and Lamas provinces), and Callao province.
Curfew from 9pm to 4am daily
Ban on the use of private cars on Sundays
Beaches, rivers and lakes are closed
Interprovincial land passenger transport: open with 50% to 100% capacity, regulated by the Ministry of Transport
Activities in closed spaces:
Casinos, gyms, movie theatres, performing arts: open with 30% capacity.
Shopping centres, galleries, department stores, shops: open with 30% capacity
Groceries shops, supermarkets, markets, drugstores: open with 50% capacity
Restaurants (internal areas): open with 40% capacity
Churches: open with 30% capacity
Libraries, museums, archaeological sites, cultural centres and galleries: open with 40% capacity
Clubs and sport associations: open with 40% capacity
Banks: open with 50% capacity
Activities in open spaces: No capacity limits and respecting protocols, with local governments’ previous authorisation
Performing arts
Cultural teaching
Restaurants in open spaces
Protected natural areas, botanic gardens and zoos
Clubs and sport associations in open spaces
High Tier: includes the region of Loreto.
Curfew from 10pm to 4am daily
Ban on the use of private cars on Sundays
Activities in closed spaces:
Casinos, gyms, movie theatres, performing arts: open with 40% capacity.
Shopping centres, galleries, department stores, shops: open with 40% capacity
Groceries shops, supermarkets, markets, drugstores: open with 60% capacity
Restaurants (internal areas): open with 50% capacity
Churches: open with 40% capacity
Libraries, museums, archaeological sites, cultural centres and galleries: open with 50% capacity
Clubs and sport associations: open with 50% capacity
Banks: open with 60% capacity
Activities in open spaces: No capacity limits and respecting protocols, with local governments’ previous authorisation
Performing arts
Restaurants in open spaces
Protected natural areas, botanic gardens and zoos
Clubs and sport associations in open spaces
Nationwide regulations:
Home deliveries will be permitted
Restaurant take-outs will be permitted other than in curfew hours
All commercial centres in the Very High and High tier regions must close two hours before curfew max, and in the Extreme tier regions 3 hours before curfew max
when outside, children must be accompanied by an adult who lives with them and maintain a two-meter social distance
it is recommended that people over 65 and those who have underlying health conditions stay at home, with some exceptions; risk groups must not receive visits at home and must avoid the physical contact with people who leave their home
everyone must wear face masks outside of homes
in addition to wearing a face mask, everyone must wear facial protectors (usually a clear plastic full-face covering) when on public transport
everyone must wear two face mask while at places with crowding risk, such as shopping centres, markets, supermarkets, department stores, galleries, shops and drug stores. One of these masks can be a cloth mask. In these places a facial protector is also recommended
All types of social and family gatherings and visits, including political, civil and cultural events, are prohibited
Future changes to curfew rules will be announced by the government.
If you are leaving Peru and your approved period of stay in Peru has expired during the state of emergency, your visa fine should be waived by the Immigration authorities.
Public places and services
Public places and services may be open or closed, depending on the tier level of the region.
Healthcare in Peru
More information (in Spanish) is available on the Ministry of Health (Ministerio de Salud) website or by calling the 24/7 call free number 113, sending a WhatsApp message to +51 95284263 or emailing infosalud@minsa.gob.pe. Some private labs are also offering the COVID-19 test.
For contact details for English speaking doctors, visit our list of healthcare providers. Whilst many medications are available over the counter in Peru, local prescriptions will be required for some. Our medical panel list includes details of English-speaking doctors who can assist.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Peru.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Peru
Wherever possible British nationals should aim to be vaccinated in the country where they live. As further information is available about the national vaccination programme, this page will be updated. Sign up to get email notifications.
The Peruvian Ministry of Foreign Affairs has confirmed that non-Peruvian residents in Peru will be included in the national vaccination programme following the same prioritisation scheme as Peruvian nationals.
The Peruvian Immigration Office is requesting all foreign nationals with non-residential status in Peru to register or update their details in their database. They have requested this because they will use the information to inform the national vaccination programme.
On 16 April the Ministry of Health launched a new national vaccine strategy aimed at vaccinating populations by district and province by age group. The vaccines registry (where people can check their vaccine date once available) is available on the government’s website.
The Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) is the UK authority responsible for assessing the safety, quality and efficacy of vaccines. It has authorised the Pfizer/BioNTech, Oxford/AstraZeneca and Moderna vaccines for temporary supply and use in the UK. Find out more about MHRA approval for these vaccines.
British nationals living overseas should seek medical advice from their local healthcare provider in the country where they reside. Information about vaccines used in other national programmes, including regulatory status, should be available from the local authorities. This list of Stringent Regulatory Authorities recognised by the World Health Organisation may also be a useful source of additional information. Find out more about COVID-19 vaccines on the World Health Organization COVID-19 vaccines page.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements. The Peruvian authorities provide guidance on public health centres in Lima and laboratories that process tests in the country (only available in Spanish). COVID-19 PCR tests are widely available in both public clinics and private labs in Peru. Some regions in Peru, outside Lima, do not have private lab facilities and rely entirely on public facilities.
Further information
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British Embassy on +51 1 617 3000. For consular enquiries please write to Help for British people in Peru
