This page has information on travelling to Peru.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport from the UK, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Peru set and enforce entry rules. If you’re unsure how Peru’s entry requirements apply to you, contact its UK embassy, high commission or consulate.
All travellers
You will need to wear two face masks or a KN95 mask on flights bound for Peru and must complete an affidavit to enter or travel through Peru as a visitor.
Normally, you don’t need a visa to travel if the purpose of the visit is tourism. If you’re travelling for any other purpose, check entry clearance requirements with the Peruvian Consulate-General in London. For information see the Visas section.
Immigration
If you enter Peru overland from Ecuador, make sure your passport is stamped with a Peruvian entry stamp at the local immigration office. Most people crossing the border with Ecuador enter Peru through Aguas Verdes (Tumbes region) - you may need to ask for directions to the immigration office. If your passport is not stamped at the border with Ecuador, you can have it stamped at the Immigration Office in the city of Tumbes.
If you enter Peru from Bolivia by bus or taxi, make sure your passport is stamped with a Peruvian entry stamp at the immigration office in Desaguadero or Copacabana (Puno region).
Immigration authorities may also not let you leave Peru without a valid exit stamp from the last country you visited.
If you enter Peru without an entry stamp then you’re required by law to apply for a new entry stamp at the nearest immigration office. The immigration authorities will need you to provide your passport and evidence of your entry to Peru, eg air/bus ticket in your name, exit stamp from the last country you visited, and any other documentation they deem necessary. If you’re unable to provide any such evidence you must apply for an exit or expulsion order at the Immigration Office in Lima. You won’t be allowed to leave Peru without this, and you may be prevented from re-entering Peru for the next five to ten years.
The British Embassy can’t intervene in immigration issues. Make sure you get your entry stamp when you arrive in Peru, but if your passport was not stamped on entry into Peru, we can assist you in requesting the entry stamp or the exit order. The sooner you start that process, the better.
Please note that passports are not stamped when you enter Peru through Jorge Chavez inter-national airport in Lima. Your details will be recorded in the immigration database and will be available when you leave Peru.
If you’re fully vaccinated
If you’re fully vaccinated, you can enter Peru without needing to test or quarantine.
Passengers aged 12 and over whose final destination is Peru must show evidence of full vaccination received either in Peru or abroad. Those under 12 years old must be without COVID-19 symptoms but do not require a test or proof of vaccination. Adults must have received the booster (third) dose either in Peru or abroad. These rules are subject to change at short notice.
Anyone who shows COVID-19 symptoms on arrival in Peru must isolate by law.
Proof of vaccination status
You must present proof that you have been fully vaccinated to enter Peru.
Peru will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 vaccination and that issued in the Crown Dependencies. Although digital proof is accepted, you should also take a hard copy. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
If you’re not fully vaccinated
Unvaccinated arrivals aged 12 and above, need to show proof of a negative PCR test (issued no more than 48 hours before boarding) when entering Peru. See information on getting a test before entry.
Children and young people
Children aged under 12 do not need to show proof of vaccination to enter Peru. Any child who shows COVID-19 symptoms on arrival in Peru must isolate by law.
If you’re transiting through Peru
Transiting is when you pass through one country on the way to your final destination.
If you are transiting through Peru on your way to another country and staying in the airport (airside) you do not need to meet the vaccination and PCR requirements to enter Peru as above.
If you are transiting through Peru on your way to another country and will be passing through immigration (sometimes known as a layover), for whichever reason, you need to meet the full requirements to enter Peru as above.
Exemptions
There are no exemptions for Peru’s entry requirements.
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
Check with your travel provider to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Passport validity
If you are visiting Peru, your passport should be valid for six months from the date you arrive. This is not applicable to foreign residents in Peru holding a valid Peruvian residence card (‘carné de extranjería’), as their passports will not require a minimum validity.
Some airlines have been allowing non-resident passengers to travel to Peru without the six-month passport validity requirement. These passengers have not been allowed to enter Peru upon arrival.
Visas
Normally, you don’t need a visa to travel if the purpose of the visit is tourism. If you’re travelling for any other purpose, check entry clearance requirements with the Peruvian Consulate-General in London.
If you have tourism status in Peru, you’ll need to apply online for a special permit in order to sign any type of contract, eg, purchase of a home, business contracts, at a notary public. For more information, please contact the Peruvian Immigration Office or the Peruvian Consulate-General in London.
On arrival, you’re normally given permission to stay for up to 90 days.
Double check the period of time you’ve been granted. If you overstay, you’ll need to pay a fine. In the worst case scenario you could be held in detention.
While it is not required by the immigration authorities, some airlines require passengers to show proof of onward travel (e.g. an airline ticket) in order to travel to Peru.
Travelling with children
Children under the age of 18 years travelling on a British passport who have resident status in Peru need written permission (Autorización de Viaje Notarial) from the non accompanying parent(s) to leave the country.
This permission is obtained by a notary public in Peru. The letter must mention the proposed destination, the purpose of the trip, the date of departure and the return date.
If unable to obtain a notarial permission, the child will need a judicial written permission (Autorización de Viaje Judicial) issued by a judge. If one of the parents has committed certain crimes, the other parent can request a judicial written permission from the judge. If one of the parents is deceased, the other parent would need to submit the death certificate to a notary public, so that an indefinite notarial permit to travel with the child is issued.
Children who have tourist status do not need these permissions, but immigration officers are free to request them in circumstances considered suspicious by the immigration authorities or if the child has stayed in Peru for over 90 days.
For further information, contact the Peruvian Consulate in London or the Peruvian Immigration Department.
Customs
British nationals have experienced problems when trying to enter the country with more than one laptop. You should familiarise yourself with Peruvian immigration or customs procedures before you enter the country. For further details contact the Peruvian Consulate in London.
If you are returning to the UK via Europe, be aware that the customs authorities in European airports frequently confiscate duty free alcohol and other liquids purchased at the duty free shops in Lima airport from passengers in transit.  
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETD) are accepted to enter, transit and exit Peru. They need to be valid for six months from the date you arrive. If the ETD is issued in Peru, after receiving the ETD, the holder will have to approach the Peruvian Immigration Office to get a new entry immigration stamp or update passport details, if the previous passport has been lost or stolen. The authorities will request a police report. An appointment needs to be scheduled beforehand. For urgent cases, the process can be done at the airport or immigration points at land borders. You can find more information online.
