At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the foreign embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
UK health authorities have classified Peru as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For information and advice about the risks associated with Zika virus, visit the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
There is a risk of dengue fever in Peru. You should visit the NaTHNaC website for further information and advice on dengue fever and take steps to avoid being bitten by mosquitoes.
Yellow fever is endemic in certain areas.
Diarrhoea caused by contaminated food or water is common and is potentially serious. See NaTHNaC’s Food and Water Hygiene page.
Medical treatment is less readily available and can be more difficult to access outside of Lima. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation.
Parts of Peru (including Cusco, Puno, the Colca Canyon and Kuelap) are at high altitude.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial one of the following numbers: 225 4040 (Lima - Alerta Med); 467 4861 (Lima - Clave 5); 241 1911(Lima - Plan Vital) and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
Coronavirus
There is an ongoing outbreak of coronavirus (COVID-19) and cases have been confirmed in Peru.
The Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advise against all but essential travel to Peru, due to the ongoing coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and in line with various controls and restrictions imposed by the Peruvian authorities.
On 15 March, Peru announced a national State of Emergency. As part of this, all borders closed for and initial period of 15 days with effect from 16 March. Freedom of movement is restricted for the same period. The main exceptions are to purchase food or medication, or to visit banks. British nationals in Peru should follow the advice of the Peruvian authorities. British nationals should abide by the measures in place. There will be police and armed forces patrols to impose the restrictions.
On 12 March Peru announced a ban on all flights arriving from and departing to Europe and Asia with effect from Monday 16 March. The ban is for 30 days and could be extended. In addition, under the current State of Emergency, all borders closed on 16 March for 15 days. We advise British nationals in Peru to secure accommodation for this period and to continue to contact their airline or tour operator regarding any possible return flights. We are in constant contact with the local authorities, airlines and other diplomatic missions to explore all possible avenues. Any new information will be published on these pages.
Private and public school classes in Peru have been suspended until 30 March.
More information (in Spanish) is available on the Ministry of Health (Ministerio de Salud) website or or by calling the 24/7 call free number 113, sending a WhatsApp message to +51 95284263 or emailing infosalud@minsa.gob.pe.
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
