

Rains, snow, flooding and landslides
In 2023 heavy rains and sometimes snow have affected different parts of Peru, including Cusco and the Northern Coast, leading to the disruption of some travel services, the restriction of some inter-provincial travel by road, flight delays and the temporary closure of some tourist sites.
The rainy season in Peru runs from November to May. It can rain and snow heavily in the Andes and there have been occasions of torrential rains in some parts of the country, including Cusco. River levels may be higher during this period.
During the rainy season land, rock and mudslides, or snow can cause disruption to road and rail travel as well as to walking routes in mountain and jungle areas. These normally include Cusco, the routes to Machu Picchu (including the alternative Santa Maria-Santa Teresa-hydroelectric plant route, and the Salkantay route), the route to Manu (in Cusco and Madre de Dios) and the north of Peru. Weather conditions can also lead to the delay of flights, including in Cusco and Arequipa.
Take care when travelling in these areas during the rainy season and check the latest conditions with your tour operator. You should ensure you travel with a sufficient supply of food, water, cash in local currency, personal medication, and warm clothes should travel be disrupted. Monitor local media for updates on travel information before starting your journey and contact Iperu (the official source of information for tourists in Peru) beforehand.
Earthquakes
Peru is in an active earthquake zone and there are frequent tremors. If in a building when an earthquake strikes keep away from the windows and make your way to the safe zones marked in most buildings with an ‘S’ sign. If you are outside keep away from buildings and other areas where objects, like trees or power lines, could fall.
Where natural disasters result in disruption to travel and/or communications, the British Government’s ability to support will be limited. While we will liaise with local authorities, their ability to respond may also be very limited if circumstances are unfavourable, including if infrastructure such as airports, roads and railroads are affected.
To learn more about what to do before, during and after an earthquake, see the website of the US Federal Emergency Management Agency.
Volcanoes
If you’re planning to visit areas of known volcanic activity, pay careful attention to all warnings and follow the advice of the local authorities. See the Ingemmet website (Peruvian Institute of Geology and Mining) (in Spanish) for more information and follow the alerts of the National Geophysical Institute (in Spanish) and the National Emergencies Centre (in Spanish).
Tsunamis and High tides
Although tsunamis are rare in Peru higher tides are often experienced either after an earthquake or for other reasons throughout the year.
See the Peruvian Directorate of Hydrography and Navigation website for information.
