

This section has safety advice for regions of Peru. It only covers regions where the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) has specific advice. 
You should also read FCDO’s overall travel advice and safety and security advice. 
Border areas
Peru-Colombia border
The Putumayo River forms most of Peru’s border with Colombia. It is an area known for intensive cocaine and marijuana production. Drug trafficking and other organised crime takes place in the area around the river. There is a high risk to your safety here and also in the border areas with Ecuador, Colombia and Brazil. You should:
seek local advice about dangerous areas
report any suspicious activity or items to the police
follow any official warnings
If there is an attack, leave the area as soon as it is safe and stay away in case of secondary attacks.
Peru-Ecuador border
Following the recent declaration of a 60 day State of Emergency in Ecuador due to internal security issues, the Peruvian Government has taken preventive measures to avoid the infiltration of subversive groups into Peru. A state of emergency has been declared in the entire northern border region of Peru with Ecuador, which includes:
Amazonas
Cajamarca
Loreto
Piura
Tiumbes
You will notice an increased security presence and should comply with any local instructions, avoid crowds and monitor the situation closely, and take this into consideration whilst planning to travel to that region or cross the various land border checkpoints.
If you wish to enter Ecuador via a land border from Peru, you must present a criminal record certificate from the country where you lived for the last five years. The certificate must be legalised with the Hague Apostille. This policy was announced on 11 January for immediate implementation on 12 January.
If you do not have the correct documentation you may not be permitted to enter via the land border.
There are no restrictions in place for anyone flying into Ecuador: the above restrictions apply only to land borders.
Only cross the Peru-Ecuador land border at official checkpoints. Other parts of the border may still have unexploded landmines. Some tourists have been robbed by fake taxi drivers. Be extremely vigilant in these areas.
The British Embassy may have difficulty in providing in-person emergency or consular support in these areas. While we will work with local authorities to request help, their ability to respond may also be very limited.
Inca trail
There is a government fee and restrictions on numbers of guided groups to protect the Inca trail. During the high season from June to August, make reservations with a travel agency well in advance. 
Only basic medical services are available at Machu Picchu. Several climbers have died or suffered serious injuries after falling while climbing Huayna Picchu, a peak near Machu Picchu. 
You should:
always register when entering national parks
be particularly careful in steep and slippery areas, or those that are unfenced or unmarked
The ‘Inca Jungle Trail’ can be difficult for vehicles due to poor road conditions. There have been fatal road accidents.
Lake Titicaca
Armed robbers have attacked travellers walking on their own. You should:
take care at all times
contact the local tourist information centre for advice about known safe zones
travel with a group at the southern end of Lake Titicaca, if walking at night
Nazca Lines
If you are planning to fly over the Nazca Lines, check the airline company is licensed and has a good safety record before you book. There have been several fatal accidents in recent years.
You can ask the iPeru information service for advice about booking flights.
Valley of the Apurímac, Ene and Mantaro rivers (VRAEM)
Remnants of the Shining Path terrorist group in the VRAEM continue to conduct occasional ambushes and attacks, mainly targeting the police, military forces and local authorities. You should:
seek local advice about dangerous areas
be alert to possible threats
take official warnings seriously
follow the advice of local authorities
report any suspicious activity or items to the police
If there is an attack, leave the area as soon as it is safe. Avoid areas affected in case of secondary attacks.
The British Embassy may have difficulty in providing in-person emergency or consular support in these areas. While we will work with local authorities to request help, their ability to respond may also be very limited.
States of emergency
On 6 December 2023 a 30-day extension was issued to the state of emergency on all national, regional and department roads (including 500 metres either side of each road).
On 24 November 2023 a 60-day extension was issued to the state of emergency on all border areas in the regions of Tumbes, Piura and Tacna, covering different districts and provinces.
A state of emergency for security reasons is in force in some districts of Ayacucho, Huancavelica, Junin and Cusco regions. Cusco city, Machu Picchu and Manu Park are not affected. For further information, contact iPeru and follow El Peruano newspaper (in Spanish).  
La Libertad Region
On 16 December 2023, a 30-day extension was issued to the state of emergency in force because of political protests in the Pataz Province in La Libertad Region.
Lima and Piura regions
On 19 November 2023 a 60-day state of emergency for security reasons was declared in San Martín de Porres and San Juan de Lurigancho districts in Lima Region, and in the districts of Sullana, Bellavista, Marcavelica, Salitral, Querecotillo, Ignacio Escudero and Miguel Checa in Sullana Province, Piura Region.
Loreto Region
A 60-day extension to the state of emergency in Putumayo and Mariscal Ramon Castilla provinces in Loreto Region started on 15 December 2023. 
