Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

There are currently no commercial options available to return to the UK from Peru. Borders are closed from 16 March until at least 26 April.
Final UK Special Flight
On Wednesday 15 April, the UK will operate a final charter flight from Lima to London for British tourists, British short term visitors and their direct dependants to return to the UK. A flight from Cusco to Lima on the same day will feed into this flight. It is essential you allow plenty of time to arrive in Cusco or Lima if you intend to travel on this flight. The total cost will be £250 per person from whichever location that you board.
If you wish to travel on this final repatriation flight, we strongly advise you to book tickets on the CTM website as soon as possible. Click here for Lima to London. And here for Cusco to London via Lima.
For those who have agreed with the British Embassy Lima that they may fly from Cusco to Lima only, click here
If you have difficulty booking online, , please send an SMS text message containing ONLY your full name to +44 20 7429 9725 and someone from our team will get in touch to assist you.
Tickets will not be on sale at the airport.
To make a booking you will need:
full passport and contact details for each traveller you are registering
your UK home address and postcode
your means of payment, such as credit or debit card details
If you cannot pay for the ticket home on this flight please call CTM rather than try to book on the website. If all other options (e.g. savings accounts, help from family members or friends) have been exhausted, you can apply for an emergency loan which may be authorised. You will need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK.
What to do
In order to take the final flight, you must ensure that you are in place in Lima or Cusco by Wednesday 15 April. To travel to these locations, the British Embassy must seek permissions for you to travel. You must let us know your travel plans as soon as possible via Lima.Escalations@fco.gov.uk so that we can secure permissions through the Peruvian government.
Details of travelling to the airport on the day will be sent at a later date.
If you cannot leave Peru at this time, you should:
follow the advice of local authorities, including local measures to help minimise your risk of exposure to coronavirus
find accommodation that’s suitable for your needs. IPERU, the Peruvian Tourism Information Agency, is offering details of suitable accommodation.
keep in regular contact with family and friends at home, so they know you are safe and well
Future travel options
The UK government is working closely with airlines, the Peruvian authorities and other governments to make sure options are available for you to return to the UK as soon as possible.
Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British Embassy on Twitter and Facebook.
Upon your return to the UK, you should follow the UK government advice that applies to everyone; go straight home from the airport, avoiding public transport where possible. Passengers will be expected to make their own arrangements on arrival in the UK and HMG will not fund the cost of onward travel. You should then stay at home and only go outside for food, health reasons, daily exercise or work if you absolutely cannot work from home.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British Embassy on +51 1 617 3000.
This page will be updated when departure options become available. To get the latest information, sign up for travel advice email alerts.
Further information
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately (/guidance/travel-advice-novel-coronavirus#if-you-cannot-return-to-the-uk).
