This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Peru as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Peru to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Peru
For information on entering Peru, see Entry Requirements
On 15 March, Peru announced a national State of Emergency, which has now been extended until 30 June. Under the current regulations:
there is a nationwide curfew between the hours of 9pm to 4am with effect from Monday 25 May
in Tumbes, Piura, Lambayeque, La Libertad, Loreto, Ucayali and Ica regions, and in Santa, Huarmey and Casma provinces in Ancash region the curfew will be from 6pm to 4am
on Sundays, no one is allowed out
everyone must use facemasks when going outside
The President will announce any future changes to curfew rules. Regulations are being rigorously enforced so it is vital you follow these to avoid detention.
These restrictions may not apply if you have a travel permit (salvo-conducto) from the Peruvian authorities. These are mainly issued for those with confirmed bookings to leave Peru, but there may be exceptions if you do not have a flight yet, but want to travel within Peru from one region to another. If this applies to you, contact the British Embassy who will make a request to the Peruvian authorities. Depending on your destination region, you may have to spend some time (possibly two weeks) on quarantine immediately after arrival. The exact location of the quarantine will be decided by the regional government upon arrival. Please note before being able to move from one region of Peru to another, the local government may first require you to submit a medical certificate, following a rapid COVID-19 test, stating that you are free from infection.
Relaxing of restrictions
The Peruvian government has approved a four-phase Economic Reactivation Plan, between May and August which involves relaxing some restrictions and reopening some industry sectors such as Industry and Mining, Construction, Trade and Tourism and Services. For Tourism and Services, the plan involves reopening or restarting the following:
first phase (May): Restaurants (via delivery), hotels and storage
second phase (June): Inter-provincial transport and flights, restaurants (restricted service)
third phase (July): International flights, restaurants and hotels operating normally
fourth phase (August): Leisure activities, conventions, meetings, gatherings
This planned relaxation of industry restrictions remains under review and may change at short notice.
Visas
During this period the Peruvian authorities have confirmed that fees will be waived for overstays on visas owing to the State of Emergency.
Accommodation
IPERU, the Peruvian Tourism Information Agency, is offering details of suitable accommodation if you need to stay in Peru.
There are reports of hotels and hostels closing throughout the country due to threats of quarantine. IPERU has details of remaining accommodation options.
Health
More information (in Spanish) is available on the Ministry of Health (Ministerio de Salud) website or by calling the 24/7 call free number 113, sending a WhatsApp message to +51 95284263 or emailing infosalud@minsa.gob.pe.
For contact details for English speaking doctors, visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Peru.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Peru, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
Please visit Waiting to return to the UK during coronavirus (COVID-19).
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
