!
Warning
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to parts of Peru.

Your travel insurance could be invalidated if you travel against advice from the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO).
Areas where FCDO advises against all but essential travel  
Within 20km south of the Peru-Colombia border 
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to areas within 20km south of the Putumayo River and the border between Peru and Colombia (Loreto region) except for: 
the Amazon River
the area of the triple border with Brazil and Colombia from and including the towns of Caballococha in Peru up to the actual triple border at Santa Rosa de Yavari town
Valley of the Apurímac, Ene, and Mantaro Rivers (VRAEM)
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to the Valley of the Apurímac, Ene, and Mantaro Rivers, also known as the VRAEM region.
We advise against all but essential travel to these two areas for safety and security reasons.
Find out more about why FCDO advises against travel. 
State of Emergency
The Peruvian government has extended the State of Emergency until 16 July in the following regions:
Ambo district in Huánuco region
Pastaza district in Datem del Marañón province, Loreto region
Putumayo, Rosa Panduro, Teniente Clevero and Yagua in Putumayo province, Loreto region
Illimo district in Lambayeque region
Pangoa and Río Tambo districts in Satipo province, Junín region
Ate, Carabayllo, Comas, Puente Piedra, San Juan de Lurigancho, San Martín de Porres, Villa El Salvador, and Villa María del Triunfo districts in Lima
Callao region
This will see the police and army working together, and permit the restriction of some constitutional rights, for example, the police will be able to detain people without a judicial order if they deem it necessary.
Earthquake in the Kamchatka Peninsular Region
An earthquake with a preliminary magnitude of 8.7 has struck the eastern coast of Russia in the Kamchatka Peninsula region. A tsunami threat message has been issued by the Pacific Tsunami Warning Centre.
If you are in the affected areas potentially affected by the earthquake or tsunami you should follow the advice of the local authorities.
Before you travel
No travel can be guaranteed safe. Read all the advice in this guide. You may also find it helpful to: 
see general advice for women travellers
read our guide on disability and travel abroad
see general advice for LGBT+ travellers
read about safety for solo and independent travel
see advice on volunteering and adventure travel abroad
Travel insurance
If you choose to travel, research your destinations and get appropriate travel insurance. Insurance should cover your itinerary, planned activities and expenses in an emergency.
About FCDO travel advice
The Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) provides advice about risks of travel to help you make informed decisions. Find out more about FCDO travel advice.
Get travel advice updates
Sign up to get email notifications when this travel advice is updated.
Follow FCDO:   
travel advice on X
travel advice on Facebook
Travel Aware on Instagram
