

This information is for people travelling on a full ‘British citizen’ passport from the UK. It is based on the UK government’s understanding of the Federated States of Micronesia’s current rules for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in the Federated States of Micronesia set and enforce entry rules. If you’re not sure how these requirements apply to you, contact the Federated States of Micronesia Immigration Office. You can also check the Federated States of Micronesia’s entry requirements on its tourism website. 
COVID-19 rules
There are no COVID-19 testing or vaccination requirements for travellers entering the Federated States of Micronesia.
Passport validity requirements
To enter the Federated States of Micronesia, your passport must have an ‘expiry date’ at least 120 days after the date you arrive.
You will need to clear immigration even for a domestic flight, so you will always need your passport when you fly in the FSM.
Check with your travel provider that your passport and other travel documents meet requirements. Renew your passport if you need to.
You will be denied entry if you do not have a valid travel document or try to use a passport that has been reported lost or stolen.
Visa requirements
You must have a visa to enter the Federated States of Micronesia. If you are visiting for tourism, you will get a visa on arrival.
You may extend your visa without charge by 30 days at a time, up to a maximum of 90 days. To extend your visa, contact the Federated States of Micronesia Immigration Office.
If you are visiting for any other purpose, such as business, you must apply for an entry permit before you travel. See entry requirements for the Federated States of Micronesia.
Checks at border control
At the Federated States of Micronesia’s border control, you may need to show a return or onward ticket.
Airport tax
You must pay a departure tax of 20 US dollars when you leave the Federated States of Micronesia.
Vaccine requirements
For details about medical entry requirements and recommended vaccinations, see TravelHealthPro’s Micronesia guide.
Customs rules
There are strict rules about goods you can take into or out of the Federated States of Micronesia. You must declare anything that may be prohibited or subject to tax or duty.
