Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for El Salvador on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in El Salvador.
Travel in El Salvador
Most businesses and services are operating. However some COVID-19 restrictions and other measures remain in force.
Anyone leaving their accommodation must wear a face covering. Other measures could be introduced with little or no notice. You should familiarise yourself with any local measures or restrictions, and comply with these and any other emergency measures.
Accommodation
Please check that your planned accommodation is available and whether any COVID-19 restrictions are being applied before travelling.
Public spaces and services
Key services (including most shops, banks, petrol stations and restaurants/take away/home delivery food services) are open; entry controls, temperature checks, social distancing measures and limits on customer numbers are common. Schools and universities and some businesses and organisations, including some tourist visitor facilities, remain closed or require a prior appointment. Large gatherings are discouraged.
Health
British-issued prescriptions cannot be used locally. To find a pharmacy (“farmacia”) look for one of the big national chains such as Farmacia San Nicolas, Farmacias UNO or Farmacias Economicas, among others; a quick search online should help you to identify the nearest open one. For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in El Salvador.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in El Salvador
Wherever possible British nationals should aim to be vaccinated in the country where they live.
As information is available about the national vaccination programme, this page will be updated. Sign up to get email notifications.
The Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) is the UK authority responsible for assessing the safety, quality and efficacy of vaccines. It has authorised the Pfizer/BioNTech, Oxford/AstraZeneca and Moderna vaccines for temporary supply and use in the UK. Find out more about MHRA approval for these vaccines.
British nationals living overseas should seek medical advice from their local healthcare provider in the country where they reside. Information about vaccines used in other national programmes, including regulatory status, should be available from the local authorities. This list of Stringent Regulatory Authorities recognised by the World Health Organisation may also be a useful source of additional information. Find out more information about the COVID-19 vaccines on the World Health Organization COVID-19 vaccines page.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements. You should contact local authorities for information on testing facilities (only available in Spanish).
Further information
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
