This page has information on travelling to El Salvador.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport from the UK, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in El Salvador set and enforce entry rules. If you’re unsure how El Salvador’s entry requirements apply to you, contact its UK embassy, high commission or consulate.
If you’re fully vaccinated
You do not need proof of COVID-19 vaccination or a negative COVID-19 test in order to enter El Salvador.
You should, however, bring proof of vaccination with you, in case requirements change at short notice either in El Salvador or in countries you transit en route
You should contact the Embassy of El Salvador in London for information on other migration requirements and documentation that you may need prior to travelling.
Proof of vaccination status
You can use the UK COVID Pass to demonstrate your vaccination record in El Salvador.
If you’re not fully vaccinated
You do not need proof of COVID-19 vaccination or a negative COVID-19 test in order to enter El Salvador.
Children and young people
Children aged 17 and under do not need proof of COVID-19 vaccination or a negative COVID-19 test in order to enter El Salvador.
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
If you are visiting El Salvador, your passport should be valid for 6 months from the date you arrive.
If you are a resident in El Salvador, your passport must be valid for 6 months from the date you arrive.
Check with your travel provider to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Visas
British passport holders can enter El Salvador for tourism or business for up to 90 days without a visa (subject to COVID restrictions referenced above). This can be extended on application to the Salvadoran immigration department, Centro de Gobierno, San Salvador; Telephone: (503) 2213 7700. For other types of travel, contact the Embassy of El Salvador in London.
If you overstay your visa then you should expect to pay a fine before leaving the country. For information you should contact the Salvadoran immigration department.
Central America Border Control Agreement
El Salvador is party to the Central America Border Control Agreement (CA-4). Under the terms of this agreement, British tourists can travel within any of the CA-4 countries (El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua) for a period of up to 90 days which starts at the first point of entry of any of the CA-4 countries. They will be subject to immigration checks at the border (which does not interrupt or restart the 90 day count). Fines are applied for travellers who exceed the 90-day limit, although you can apply for an extension of up to 30 days by paying a fee before the 90 days limit expires. If you’re expelled from any of the 4 countries you are also excluded from the entire CA-4 region.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are valid for entry to and exit from El Salvador. ETDs must also have a minimum period of 6 months validity from the date you enter El Salvador. If you’re travelling via the United States of America on an ETD, you’ll need to get a USA visa. For more information, please contact the Embassy of the USA in El Salvador.
