Coronavirus (COVID-19)
El Salvador experienced its “Omicron peak” in late January/early February. Cases have since fallen significantly. The healthcare system is generally coping, but could come under pressure in case of a further peak or new variant.
Attitudes to mask wearing and self-isolation are different to in the UK, with a general expectation that masks should be worn in public places and that people with COVID or COVID-like symptoms will self-isolate until clear.
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for El Salvador on the TravelHealthPro website See the healthcare information in the Coronavirus section for information on what to do if you think you have coronavirus while in El Salvador.
General health
At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Other health risks
Water is not generally safe to drink, but bottled water is widely and cheaply available. Rivers tend to be contaminated and unsafe to swim or bathe in. Cases of typhoid and hepatitis A have increased in recent years, largely due to contaminated water.
UK health authorities have classified El Salvador as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For more information and advice, visit the website of the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
Cases of Chikungunya virus and dengue fever have also been confirmed in El Salvador.
Local medical care
Medical facilities outside the capital San Salvador are generally basic. State-run hospitals are on the whole under-staffed, under-funded and ill-equipped. Use private clinics and hospitals whenever possible, but be aware that some hospitals may be reluctant to treat you until they are satisfied you have medical insurance.
Not all hospitals will accept patients with COVID-19 symptoms. Those that do often have specific areas set aside for possible COVID-19 patients. You should check before travelling to a hospital. You should contact 132 if you suspect you have COVID-19. This health help line will give you options on how to address your COVID-19 related medical concern, In case of emergencies COVID-19 related public hospitals will refer you to the new COVID-19 hospital, Hospital El Salvador
Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation. Carry a copy of your insurance cover at all times. Most medical staff speak only a little English.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 911 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
