Volcanoes
El Salvador has several active volcanoes, at least six of which are monitored.
The alert and suspension of activities around the Chaparrastique Volcano, also known as San Miguel Volcano, on 17 November following a series of small eruptions of gas and ash clouds has now been lifted, though authorities continue to monitor the situation. For updated information, you should monitor local media and follow advice from the authorities.
Seek local advice before climbing any volcanoes in El Salvador and monitor local media for any updates on increased volcanic activity. You can find volcano warnings on the website of the Directorate General of Civil Protection (in Spanish). When climbing volcanoes or walking in remote areas, it is safer do so in daylight hours and with a tour guide.
Rainy season
The rainy season normally runs from June to November, coinciding with the hurricane season in the Caribbean. During the rainy season you can expect frequent heavy rain, thunder storms and possible tropical depressions. Roads can be affected by landslides and flooding. Mountain areas are particularly vulnerable to landslides.
Monitor local and international weather updates from the Ministry of the Environment and Natural Resources (MARN), the World Meteorological Organisation and the US National Hurricane Centre. See our Tropical Cyclones page for advice about what to do if you are caught up in a hurricane.
Earthquakes
El Salvador is subject to frequent minor earth tremors and occasional earthquakes. Local information can be found (in Spanish) on the MARN website or their Twitter feed @MedioAmbienteSV
On 15 January 2023, Dirección General de Protección Civil issued a Red Alert in the municipalities of San Lorenzo and Ahuachapan, and a Green Alert in the rest of Ahuachapan and Santa Ana departments, after more than 200 small earth tremors where registered in less than 24 hours; 60 of them were 4.4 or higher in the Richter scale. For updated information, you should monitor local media and follow advice from authorities.
Make sure you know what action to take should an earthquake occur. If you are staying in a hotel read their earthquake instructions. The US Federal Emergency Management Agency website has advice about what to do before, during and after an earthquake or tsunami.
Fire
Fires can increase during the dry season; particularly in San Salvador. You can contact the fire brigade by calling 911.
