Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

There are currently no commercial options available to return to the UK from El Salvador given the closure of San Salvador Airport to passenger flights until at least 21 May and entry restrictions imposed by neighbouring countries.
We know this is concerning for British people trying to leave El Salvador. The UK government is working closely with airlines, the Salvadoran authorities and other governments to make sure options are available for you to return to the UK as soon as possible.
What to do
If you cannot leave El Salvador at this time, you should:
contact the British Embassy in San Salvador on stay in contact El Salvador to make the British Embassy in San Salvador aware of your presence in the country
follow the advice of local authorities, including the curfew and other local measures to help minimise your risk of exposure to coronavirus
find accommodation that’s suitable for your needs
keep in regular contact with family and friends at home, so they know you are safe and well
if your visa is about to expire you can extend it during the curfew without leaving your accommodation by visiting Salvadoran Migration services for foreigners - you will need to complete the process once movement restrictions are relaxed
See more information and advice about staying where you are if you cannot return to the UK.
Future travel options
The UK government is working closely with airlines, the Salvadoran authorities and other governments to make sure options are available for you to return to the UK as soon as possible.
This travel advice will be updated when normal departure options become available.
Sign up for El Salvador travel advice email alerts and follow the British Embassy on Twitter.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Your journey home
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Help and support
The British Embassy and Honorary Consul offices are closed and staff are working remotely. If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British Embassy on +503 2511 5757 and follow the instructions.
The Embassy cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone. This page will be updated when departure options become available. To get the latest information, sign up for El Salvador travel advice email alerts.
Further information
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
