

Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in El Salvador
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in El Salvador, attacks cannot be ruled out. 
Political situation
Despite political tensions arising from irregularities in the electoral processes, both the Presidential and Legislative elections on 4 February and Municipal and Central American Parliamentary elections on 3 March passed peacefully.  Avoid demonstrations and do not engage in any political activity.
It’s illegal for foreign nationals to engage in political activities such as public demonstrations in El Salvador. If you participate in demonstrations, you may be detained and deported. Avoid large gatherings or demonstrations and be cautious in public areas.
In 2021 there were significant political protests in San Salvador. Although the protests were peaceful and there were no injuries, there was significant damage to property.
Also in 2021, gunmen in San Salvador opened fire on activists from one of El Salvador’s main opposition parties, killing 2 people and injuring 5 more.  
Crime
El Salvador has until recently had one of the highest crime rates in Latin America. The risks of violent and petty crime remain, despite recent progress.
State of exception (emergency)
El Salvador’s government has declared a state of exception (emergency) in response to a sharp rise in gang-related murders. The state of exception started in 2022 and has remained in place since. The murder rate has fallen significantly, but the authorities are concerned the gangs could regroup.
The state of exception gives police additional powers, resulting in a much higher number of arrests, sometimes without much evidence. It also allows police to detain people for much longer before trial. Many ordinary legal safeguards have also been weakened or removed. For example, joint legal hearings for over 100 people are common.
Some embassies have struggled to get consular access to their citizens. If you’re arrested, the El Salvador government may not allow the British Embassy to give you consular assistance or make sure you receive legal representation. Mistreatment and human rights violations, sometimes resulting in death, happen in detention facilities.
Security operations and gang-related violence do not usually affect tourists and visitors. Security operations have taken place across the country, particularly in Soyapango, Ilopango, Mejicanos, San Martin and San Marcos.
In 2022 the Salvadoran Legislative Assembly designated gang members as terrorists and established harsher penalties for them. Government communications and social media posts now sometimes refer to suspected gang members as terrorists.  
Robberies and violent assaults
There have been isolated attacks on tourists, including robberies, carjackings and violent assaults.
Within San Salvador, the areas of Santa Elena, San Benito and Maquilishuat have better security, as do most of the larger shopping malls.
Protecting yourself and your belongings
Avoid walking alone or on remote trails. It may be safer to travel with others or go on a tour with a reputable company. Take extra care in more rundown areas of towns and cities and those less visited by tourists. Follow local advice on where the safer areas are.
Keep valuables, including your passport, in a hotel safe if possible. Guard your passport, mobile phone and cash against pickpockets at bus stations, airports, tourist sites and on public transport. Do not wear expensive jewellery, particularly at airports, and only carry a small amount of cash.
Withdraw money from ATMs in shopping centres or change money in hotels or banks. Do not withdraw a lot of money at one time or use ATMs at night or in badly lit areas.
If you’re driving, take extra care at junctions, where armed robbers often target stationary traffic. Stick to main roads and avoid unsurfaced roads, as you’re at greater risk in remote areas with fewer police patrols. Always lock doors and keep windows closed. If you’re robbed, do not resist the attackers or take any action that puts you at greater risk.
If you have questions on security, contact the El Salvador tourist police:
Telephone: +503 2224 2705
Email: info@politurelsalvador.com
Buses and taxis
Public buses (repainted old US school buses) are not safe due to petty crime. Private intercity buses are generally safer, although crime can also happen on these. Only use reputable coach companies. For shorter trips within towns and cities, take radio-dispatched, pre-booked or hotel taxis operated by reputable companies. Do not use unofficial taxis, as there remains a small risk of kidnapping.
Criminal kidnapping
The risk of kidnapping to foreigners or visitors is relatively low, despite an increase in kidnapping of Salvadorans. You might wish to share your location or plans with a trusted person, particularly if taking public transport or a taxi. Kidnap gangs generally target rich Salvadorans rather than visitors.
Scams
Scam artists target foreign visitors and residents. Scams come in many forms and can cause great financial loss. Warn your friends and family to be sceptical if they’re asked to transfer funds to you in El Salvador. Tell them to contact you to check you’ve made this request.
Laws and cultural differences
Personal ID
The police may ask you for ID. They may detain you if they suspect you are a gang member. Always carry a copy of the photo page of your passport to prove your identity.  
Money
The official currencies of El Salvador are the US dollar and bitcoin. Bitcoins may not be accepted everywhere. If you’re considering using bitcoins, make sure you understand the risks involved. Also make sure you can access US dollars if needed.
It is almost impossible to change British pounds anywhere in El Salvador, so you should bring a mixture of cash and travellers cheques in US dollars.
Many smaller restaurants, bars and shops do not accept 50 and 100 US dollar notes. You can exchange these notes at a bank. Bring smaller denominations with you if possible.
Regular ATMs and bitcoin ATMs are widely available, particularly in San Salvador and La Libertad. Tell your bank of your travel plans to avoid your card being blocked.
Crowded events
On 20 May 2023, at least 12 people died and more than 500 were injured during a football match at the Cuscatlán Stadium, due to overcrowding. If you’re attending events in crowded places and large gatherings, follow the advice of the local authorities and maintain a high level of security awareness.
Illegal drugs and prison sentences
There are severe penalties for drug use and trafficking in El Salvador. Prisons are overcrowded and violent.
LGBT+ travellers
Same-sex marriage, civil unions and adoption are illegal in El Salvador. (The Family Code establishes that marriage should happen between a man and a woman, although the constitution does not make this specific point.) Due to conservative attitudes and the risk of harassment to same-sex couples, showing affection in public is not recommended.
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Landmines and unexploded weapons
There is a small risk of unexploded weapons, such as landmines, in remote areas. If you’re going off-road, take local advice and avoid such areas if warned.
Outdoor activities and adventure tourism
Swimming safety
Swimming on the Pacific coast can be dangerous due to strong undertows. The currents around La Bocana de San Diego are particularly treacherous. Several people have drowned in recent years. There are very few or no lifeguards. You should avoid swimming on isolated beaches, especially after consuming alcohol.
Rivers tend to be contaminated and unsafe to swim or bathe in.
Transport risks
Road travel
If you are planning to drive in El Salvador, see information on driving abroad
You can use a UK photocard driving licence to drive in El Salvador for the first 90 days after you arrive. If you still have a paper driving licence, you may need to update it to a photocard licence. El Salvador does not accept the international driving permit.
After 90 days, you must get an El Salvador driving licence. Before you can apply for a licence, you must already have a temporary residency permit. You’ll need to have your UK licence certified (‘Homologación Licencia Extranjera’) as part of the application process.
Hire car companies often have stricter requirements for their customers, such as a year of driving experience or a higher minimum age. 
Car insurance is essential. If you’re involved in an accident, call 911 to reach the national police or fire brigade. Wait for the police to arrive.
Driving standards
Driving standards vary. Lane discipline is poor.
Roads between the main tourist locations in El Salvador are of a good or acceptable standard. Thieves sometimes steal manhole covers, leaving large holes in the road. In more isolated locations, roads are unsurfaced and 4-wheel-drive vehicles are necessary.
Crossing borders
Take particular care when driving to or from the border with Guatemala. There have violent attacks on vehicles, particularly on the Guatemalan side of the border. Criminals often target vehicles with El Salvador number plates. It’s better to cross borders in the morning, giving you time to reach your destination before dark. Borders sometimes close in the early evening. Private bus companies are considered safer than public buses for crossing borders.
Extreme weather and natural disasters
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards.
Rainy season  
The rainy season normally runs from June to November – the same time as the hurricane season in the Caribbean. During the rainy season you can expect frequent, heavy rain, thunderstorms and possible tropical depressions. Landslides and flooding can affect roads. Mountain areas are particularly vulnerable to landslides.
Monitor local and international weather updates from the Dirección General de Observatorio de Amenazas y Recursos Naturales (in Spanish), the World Meteorological Organization and the US National Hurricane Center. 
Hurricanes 
See tropical cyclones for advice about what to do if you’re caught in a hurricane.
Volcanic eruptions
El Salvador has active volcanoes, at least 6 of which are monitored.
Get local advice before climbing volcanoes in El Salvador and monitor local media for updates on increased volcanic activity. Check the Directorate General of Civil Protection for volcano warnings. It’s safer to climb volcanoes or walk in remote areas during daylight hours with a tour guide.
Earthquakes 
There are frequent minor earth tremors and occasional earthquakes in El Salvador. The US Federal Emergency Management Agency website has advice about what to do before, during and after an earthquake. If you’re staying in a hotel, read their earthquake instructions.
See the Ministry of the Environment and Natural Resources for information on El Salvador earthquakes.
Tsunamis 
There is a risk of tsunamis in coastal areas. See tsunamis.
Wildfires  
Fire risk increases during the dry season, particularly in San Salvador. During especially hot and dry periods a single spark or flame can start a wildfire. Report fires to the emergency services immediately.
