This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in El Salvador as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in El Salvador to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in El Salvador
For information on entering El Salvador, see Entry Requirements
A state of emergency has been declared. This suspends some freedoms of assembly and movement. A 24/7 national curfew is in place until 21 May, with exceptions only for designated essential workers. Anyone leaving their accommodation must wear a mask. Movement between municipalities is no longer permitted and public transport (including taxis) has been suspended.
The Government has encouraged municipalities to introduce further measures. You should familiarise yourself with any additional measures in your local area. You should comply with these and other emergency measures. Hundreds of people have been detained and sent to quarantine facilities for breaking the curfew and stricter controls have been introduced from 7 May.
Key services (including supermarkets, pharmacies, banks, petrol stations and home delivery food outlets) will operate. One individual per household can go out to buy essential supplies from outlets within the municipality in which they live on designated days according to the final digit of their Salvadoran identity document or, in the case of foreigners, residency or passport; shops are checking compliance on entry. Schools and universities and many other businesses and organisations, including restaurants and take away food services, are closed.
Quarantine
Following confirmation of the first COVID-19 case on 18 March, President Bukele announced that anyone diagnosed with COVID-19 would be required to receive care in a Government designated facility, to reduce the risk of transmission.
You should comply with any additional screening measures put in place by the authorities. For further information, please check with the Salvadoran General Directorate of Migration and the Ministry of Health webpage.
Registering with the British Embassy
If you cannot leave El Salvador at this time, you should contact the British Embassy in San Salvador on stay in contact El Salvador to make the British Embassy in San Salvador aware of your presence in the country
Visas
If your visa is about to expire you can extend it during the curfew without leaving your accommodation by visiting Salvadoran Migration services for foreigners - you will need to complete the process once movement restrictions are relaxed
Health
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in El Salvador.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
