COVID-19 entry restrictions for El Salvador
Before you travel, check the ‘Entry requirements’ section for El Salvador’s current entry restrictions and requirements. These may change with little warning. Monitor this advice for the latest updates and stay in contact with your travel provider.
Travelling from and returning to the UK
Check what you must do to travel abroad and return to England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
If you plan to pass through another country to return to the UK, check the travel advice for the country you’re transiting.
If you’re planning travel to El Salvador, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCDO’s guidance on foreign travel insurance.
For information about COVID-19 vaccines, see the Coronavirus page
Most visits to El Salvador are trouble free. However, El Salvador has one of the highest crime rates in Latin America so you should take extra care. Take particular care in downtown San Salvador and on roads outside major towns and cities, especially at night. Avoid wearing expensive jewellery or displaying valuable items. Safeguard your passport, mobile phone and cash against pickpockets. See Crime
The rainy season runs from June to November and extreme weather events can lead to loss of life, damage to roads, property and infrastructure, and disruption to supplies, services and utilities. You should exercise extra caution if travelling and follow the advice and instructions of local authorities. See Rainy season
The 30 day State of Exception (Emergency) introduced by the Government in response to a sharp rise in the number of murders in late March 2022 remains in place. The murder rate has since fallen significantly, but security operations and arrests continue. The police have the authority to hold suspected gang members for up to 15 days without them appearing before a judge. As of 4 April 2022 over 6,000 alleged gang members have been arrested, and at least 3 have been reported to have been killed in clashes with the police. President Bukele has stated that freedom of expression and circulation (movement) will not be restricted. You should exercise caution and follow local news in case further measures are introduced.
There are ongoing political tensions in El Salvador. On the afternoon of Sunday 31 January 2021 in San Salvador gunmen opened fire on activists from one of El Salvador’s main opposition parties, killing two people, and injuring five other people. On 15 September 2021 San Salvador saw significant public protests over political issues; although the protests were peaceful and there were no injuries there was significant damage to property. The El Salvador Constitution prohibits political activities by foreign nationals, and participation in demonstrations may result in detention and / or deportation. You should avoid large gatherings or demonstrations and exercise caution in public areas.
UK health authorities have classified El Salvador as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For more information and advice, visit the website of the National Travel Health Network and Centre website. Typhoid and hepatitis A are also present. You should avoid bathing in or drinking from any rivers. See Health
There are a number of potentially active volcanoes in El Salvador. You can get up to date information and advice about volcanic activity on the website of the Directorate General of Civil Protection (in Spanish). See Natural disasters
Terrorist attacks in El Salvador can’t be ruled out. See Terrorism
You can contact the emergency services by calling 911.
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.
If you would like to make the British Embassy in San Salvador aware of your presence in the country please email stay in contact El Salvador
