Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Kenya on the TravelHealthPro website.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
The Government of Kenya has confirmed that all persons departing Kenya for a country requiring a negative COVID-19 test as a condition of entry must obtain an RT PCR COVID-19 test and an associated Trusted Travel code, which airlines and Kenya’s Port Health authorities will verify at the airport. Travellers are encouraged to check their destination country’s entry requirements.
For those concerned, after visiting an authorised laboratory to undertake an RT PCR COVID-19 test, travellers will receive a text message from PanaBIOS and an email from the laboratory itself and/or admin@panabios.org with a link to generate a Travel Code at trustedtravel.panabios.org. If the test result meets Kenya’s exit requirements, and the destination country’s entry requirements, a Travel Code will be issued to the traveller.
All Kenyan RT PCR COVID-19 testing laboratories are party to the Trusted Travel system.
Commercial flights are operating to and from Kenya. Check with your travel company for the latest information.
The Kenya-Uganda, Kenya-Somalia and Kenya-Tanzania borders re-opened on 1 August.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Kenya.
Renewal of visas
The Kenyan Immigration Department has lifted a COVID-19-related amnesty on visitors who have overstayed their stipulated visiting period. From 14 September, visitors have two weeks to leave Kenya or apply for residency (Permit or Pass) to regularise their stay. To apply for residency, visit the electronic Foreign Nationals Services portal.
Travel in Kenya
A curfew is in effect across Kenya from 10pm to 4am (local time), except in Government-designated COVID-19 hotspot zones. During curfew hours, everyone must stay at home or indoors, except for essential service workers.
The Counties of Busia, Vihiga, Kisii, Nyamira, Kakamega, Kericho, Bomet, Bungoma, Trans-Nzoia, Kisumu, Siaya, Homa Bay and Migori have been designated as a COVID-19 hotspot zone. Effective 18 June, the curfew in the hotspot zone will be enforced from 7pm to 4am. The Government is strongly discouraging movements between the hotspot zone and the rest of the country. All public gatherings and in-person meetings of any nature are prohibited within the hotspot zone.
The Government of Kenya has advised that passengers departing the airport during curfew must retain their boarding pass as proof of their arrival time, which will allow for movement to their accommodation. Similarly, evidence of air passengers arriving during curfew will enable access for drivers coming to collect passengers during curfew hours.
You do not need a COVID-19 negative test to board domestic flights within Kenya. However, the Government have introduced a digital domestic travel locator card system, which will generate a QR code to present to Port Health Officials at domestic arrivals.
Travellers can access the digital passenger locator form here or via the “Jitenge” app, downloadable from Google Playstore (Android users only). iPhone users should make sure to use Chrome or Firefox when accessing the form via the URL. Upon submission of the digital locator form, a QR code will be sent to your email address.
For Android users, if you are unable to access the QR code via email, log-in to your Jitenge account and input the phone number used to register, as well as your passport or ID number. Your name will appear, then click on your name and select “Show QR code”. Screenshot the QR code and present this at the Health Desk upon arrival.
For iPhone users unable to access their QR code via email, check your downloads folder or present your phone number and passport number at the Health Desk at arrivals to allow officials to retrieve your QR code.
The Government of Kenya has directed that, in addition to public transport systems, social distancing rules – in the form of capacity restrictions – will also apply when using private vehicles, including taxis. This means five-seater vehicles will only be allowed to carry two passengers in addition to the driver, while seven-seater vehicles will only be allowed four passengers in addition to the driver.
Public places and services
The Government of Kenya has directed that face masks must be worn in public places, except when dining, or when adhering to social distancing in hotels, gardens or on beaches. Public places, tourism and hospitality establishments, travel and tour companies, hotels and other accommodations, and recreation facilities are allowed to operate, provided they comply with Government of Kenya public health protocols, including 1.5 metre social distancing and the night-time curfew of 10pm (local).
On 1 May 2021, the Government of Kenya confirmed that restaurants and eateries may open to customers, provided they comply with Government of Kenya public health protocols including 1.5 metre social distancing and the night-time curfew of 10pm (local). From 2 May all bars across Kenya would close at 7pm (local).
Across Kenya, the maximum number of persons permitted to attend meetings or events has been capped at 15, permitted to attend funerals has been capped at 50, weddings capped at 30, with all in attendance expected to abide by Ministry of Health protocols. Political gatherings have been suspended until otherwise directed Kenyan citizens have been advised to avoid crowded places and to work remotely where possible
Healthcare in Kenya
The Government of Kenya has indicated that anyone testing positive for COVID-19, but presenting as asymptomatic or with only mild symptoms, can expect to be directed to self-isolate at home if able to do so. Vulnerable persons will be prioritised for hospital care. Ministry of Health guidance is available.
Pharmacies and other shops selling essential products remain open, though business hours may be affected by the nationwide curfew.
The authorities are conducting random temperature screenings in spaces frequented by the general public. If you show signs or symptoms of coronavirus and are able to self-isolate, you can expect to be directed to do so. If you cannot self-isolate, you can expect to be taken into a State health facility by the Kenyan authorities.
For contact details for doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read our guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
See Health for further details on healthcare in Kenya.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Kenya
As information is available about the national vaccination programme, this page will be updated.
The Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) is the UK authority responsible for assessing the safety, quality and efficacy of vaccines. It has authorised the Pfizer/BioNTech, Oxford/AstraZeneca, Moderna and Janssen vaccines for temporary supply and use in the UK. Find out more about MHRA approval for these vaccines.
British nationals living overseas should seek medical advice from their local healthcare provider in the country where they reside. Information about vaccines used in other national programmes, including regulatory status, should be available from the local authorities. This list of Stringent Regulatory Authorities recognised by the World Health Organisation may also be a useful source of additional information. Find out more information about the COVID-19 vaccines on the World Health Organization COVID-19 vaccines page.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements. You should contact local authorities for information on testing facilities. See International travel for further information.
Further information
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact the British High Commission.
If you are vulnerable with health issues, an older person, or travelling with young children, you can call: +254202844000 or +254 20 287 3000 and follow the options for consular assistance. The numbers are available 24/7.
For more details on measures in Kenya, see the Kenya Ministry of Health website.
