This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Kenya set and enforce entry rules. For further information contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to. You should also consider checking with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Entry rules in response to coronavirus
Entry to Kenya
Full details of the Government of Kenya’s entry requirements in relation to coronavirus can be found on the Kenya Civil Aviation Authority website.
From 29 December 2021, the following conditions will apply to travellers entering Kenya:
All passengers, irrespective of nationality and residency status, must be in possession of a valid COVID-19 negative PCR test certificate conducted within 72 hours before their travel to Kenya. Children under the age of five are exempt from this requirement, as are crew on layover
Passengers entering Kenya must have a certificate of vaccination against COVID-19, unless they have a certificate of exemption from a medical practitioner. Some airlines may also request that British travellers show proof of vaccination on the NHS App at check-in
Travellers must upload their certificate of vaccination and negative PCR test certificate to https://globalhaven.org/ before boarding their flight
COVID-19 vaccines approved by the World Health Organization (WHO) are considered valid by public health officials in Kenya. You must have received a full dose of a WHO-approved vaccination. Under 18s are exempt from this requirement
All passengers/crew irrespective of nationality and residency status shall be expected to fill in the travellers’ locator form and submit before travel to http://bit.ly/covid19moh and thereafter submit daily health information on the Jitenge Platform / App for 14 consecutive days. For more information, please see the ‘Data Collection’ section below
A random antigen test may be taken by port health officers on entry, depending on risk evaluation of the country of origin. Any person who tests positive will be directed to isolate at home (for Kenyan residents) or in a Ministry of Health designated facility (for non-Kenyan residents) for 10 days, at their own cost
All passengers displaying flu-like symptoms on arrival, or who develop symptoms of COVID-19 within 14 days of arrival, may be placed into quarantine at home or at a government facility, at their own cost
Any passengers testing positive will be required to take a PCR test and isolated awaiting results. If the PCR is positive, passengers will need to isolate for 10 days at Government of Kenya approved isolation facilities at their own cost, with a repeat PCR test on day 7
From 2 December, travellers arriving from or transiting through South Africa, Botswana, Zimbabwe, Malawi, Eswatini, Lesotho, Namibia, Mozambique, Zambia, Malawi, Ghana and Nigeria within the previous 14 days will undergo a free rapid antigen test on arrival for surveillance purposes
All negative COVID-19 test results must prove that they have been taken no more than 72 hours before travel to Kenya and be verified digitally through the Global Haven website.
Departing Kenya
From 21 December, all passengers departing Kenya will be required to show a certificate of vaccination against COVID-19, unless they have a certificate of exemption from a medical practitioner. COVID-19 vaccines approved by the World Health Organization (WHO) are considered valid by public health officials in Kenya. You must have received a full dose of a WHO-approved vaccination. Under 18s are exempt from this requirement.
In addition to the above, travellers should be prepared to show compliance with the entry requirements for their transit and destination countries when departing Kenya.
If you will require a negative PCR COVID-19 test to enter your destination or transit country, you should use an authorised laboratory. You will then receive a text message from PanaBIOS and an email from the laboratory itself and/or Panabios with a link to generate a Travel Code. If the test result meets the destination or transit country’s entry requirements, a Travel Code will be issued to the traveller.
All Kenyan PCR COVID-19 testing laboratories are party to the Trusted Travel system.
Data collection
All travellers arriving in Kenya must complete a COVID-19 Travellers Health Surveillance Form before their arrival, even if only transiting. The online registration form can be found on the “Jitenge” platform, accessible via the following link or the “Jitenge” App (available on the Google Play Store).
iPhone users should make sure to use Chrome or Firefox when accessing the form via the URL. Upon submission of the digital locator form, a QR code will be sent to your email address.
For Android users, if you are unable to access the QR code via email, log-in to your Jitenge account and input the phone number used to register, as well as your passport or ID number. Your name will appear, then click on your name and select “Show QR code”. Screenshot the QR code and present this at the Health Desk upon arrival.
For iPhone users unable to access their QR code via email, check your downloads folder or present your phone number and passport number at the Health Desk at arrivals to allow officials to retrieve your QR code.
After submitting the form, travellers will receive a QR code which must be presented to port health officials for them to be allowed to proceed to arrival immigration.
Regular entry requirements
Visas
You need a visa to enter Kenya. Kenyan entry visas are exclusively issued electronically, with passengers required to obtain their e-visas before departure. You can apply for single entry and transit visas on the e-visas website
For more information, see the website of the Kenyan High Commission in London.
Passport validity
Your passport should be valid for a minimum period of 6 months from the date of entry into Kenya. Make sure you have two blank pages in your passport on arrival.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are accepted for entry, airside transit and exit from Kenya. ETDs must be valid for 6 months.
All ETD applicants are required to obtain an exit stamp from Kenyan Immigration prior to departure.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
You may need a yellow fever certificate when entering Kenya from certain destinations. Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
Work permits
If you’re coming to live and work in Kenya, you must have a work permit before starting employment. It’s illegal to work without one. This needs to be applied for before coming to Kenya to work. This also applies to voluntary work and the self-employed. You can apply for a work permit at the Department of Immigration Services website. The government of Kenya has recently reiterated the need for all foreign workers in Kenya to have (and carry with them) the necessary work permits and documentation, and has promised swift action against those who do not comply; this includes deportation. Work permits are not always granted; the Government of Kenya is prioritising the availability of high quality jobs for Kenyan nationals, and may not grant a work permit to a British national if the job in question could be done by a Kenyan national.
If you’re already in Kenya, and your application for a work permit is successful, you will be required to hand in your passport to immigration for a permit stamp to be inserted. During this period, you should always carry a certified copy of your passport for identification purposes. A local lawyer can provide this. On 20 April 2018, the government of Kenya announced a shift to e-permits replacing all existing and future work permits. Anyone holding or needing a work permit was required to register for an e-permit at Nyayo House before 21 July 2018. If you’ve missed this deadline, you should seek advice from Nyayo House.
