Coronavirus
Cases of coronavirus (COVID-19) have been confirmed in Kenya. The Kenyan authorities have introduced a number of measures to limit the spread of the virus.
On 21 March, the Government of Kenya will begin conducting random temperature screenings in spaces frequented by the general public. If you show signs or symptoms of Coronavirus and are able to self-isolate, you can expect to be directed to do so. If you show signs or symptoms of Coronavirus and self-isolating is not an option available to you, you can expect to be taken into a State health facility by the Kenyan authorities.
On 15 March, the government of Kenya announced that travel for all persons coming into Kenya from any country with reported coronavirus cases is suspended for the next 30 days. This includes those entering Kenya from the UK. You should be permitted to transit Kenya to an onward destination as long as you are taking a connecting flight and you don’t leave the airport. You may wish to check your travel plans are acceptable with the nearest Kenyan embassy/high commission/consulate.
If you are a Kenyan citizen, or a foreigner with a valid residence permit, you will still be allowed to enter Kenya. The Government of Kenya has mandated that you will have to self-quarantine for 14 days if you have entered from a country with reported coronavirus cases, including the UK.
The Government of Kenya has also said that anyone who entered Kenya in the 14 days prior to 15 March from a country with reported coronavirus cases, including the UK, must self-quarantine until they have been symptom-free for 14 days from the time of entry into Kenya.
Foreigners, including British nationals, can break their self-quarantine before 14 days only if asymptomatic and only to depart Kenya immediately. However, if showing symptoms of coronavirus, British nationals should self-isolate for the minimum period of 14 days and follow medical advice.
Guidance on self-quarantining and self-isolation from Public Health England is available here.
On arrival in Kenya all passengers will be screened by health officials. If you show signs or symptoms of Coronavirus, you can expect to be taken to a State health facility for quarantine by the Kenyan authorities.
The Government has also, with immediate effect, banned all meetings, conferences and events of an international nature in Kenya. It has advised its citizens to avoid crowded places and to work remotely where possible.
For more details, see the Kenya Ministry of Health website.
You should comply with any additional screening measures put in place by the authorities.
Airlines operating flights to and from Nairobi, including direct UK-Kenya flights, are keeping their schedules under constant review. Some have announced flight suspensions or reduced frequencies. British nationals should contact their tour operator or airline for the latest information on any possible disruptions, cancellations or reduction of flight services
If you need further information about entry requirements, contact the local immigration authorities or the nearest Kenyan embassy/high commission/consulate.
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Medical treatment
Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, first deal with the emergency with first aid skills if possible and then move onto the nearest, largest Accident and Emergency department. In Nairobi this is either Nairobi Hospital or the Aga Khan University Hospital.
Other health risks
Cholera, malaria, dengue fever and other insect-borne infections occur in Kenya. You should take precautions to avoid being bitten by insects.
On 1 August 2018, an outbreak of Ebola was declared in Béni territory, North Kivu Province in the Democratic Republic of Congo. On 11 June 2019, the Ugandan government confirmed an outbreak of Ebola in Kasese District in western Uganda. Kenyan authorities have put in place additional screening measures at some airports and border crossings in Kenya for those arriving from affected areas. The latest updates can be found on the WHO website. If travelling in the region, you should check FCO Travel Advice for the relevant countries.
You should drink or use only boiled or bottled water and avoid ice in drinks. Don’t eat food prepared by unlicensed vendors. See food and water hygiene.
