!
Warning
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to parts of Kenya.

This section has safety advice for regions of Kenya. It only covers regions where FCDO has specific advice.
You should also read FCDO’s overall travel advice and safety and security advice.
There have been a number of terrorist attacks in Kenya in recent years. In particular, there are frequent attacks in the north-eastern border regions (Lamu, Garissa, Wajir and Mandera Counties), most of which were attributed to Al Shabaab. These have killed members of the Kenyan security forces as well as civilians. The Kenyan security forces have increased their presence in the affected areas. Armed militia groups operate within the Boni Forest and along the border with Somalia. Due to the terrorism risk, the FCDO advises against all but essential travel along the Kenya-Somalia border, and north-eastern coast.
Kenya-Somalia border
Due to on-going terrorism activity, FCDO advises against all but essential travel to areas within 60km of Kenya’s border with Somalia.
Eastern Garissa County
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to Eastern Garissa County, up to 20km north-west of the A3.
Mandera County
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to Mandera County, excluding Mandera West subcounty.
Lamu County
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to Lamu County, excluding Lamu Island and Manda Island.
If you travel to Lamu Island or Manda Island, you should fly to Lamu Airport (a civilian airport on Manda Island). Do not travel by road.
Tana River County
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to areas of Tana River County north of the Tana River, up to 20km north-west of the A3.
Coast between the Tana River and Galana River
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to within 15km of the coast between the Tana River and the Galana (Athi-Galana-Sabaki) River.
Jomo Kenyatta International Airport to Nairobi City
For travel between Jomo Kenyatta International Airport and Nairobi City, you should use the Mombasa Road or the Nairobi Expressway. There is a higher risk of carjacking on the old airport road (Airport South Road) and Jogoo Road.
The Mombasa Road can get very busy during rush hour, and check-in can take several hours. Allow plenty of time to get to the airport. A vehicle security check outside the airport may add to your journey time.
North and north-east Kenya
Rural areas, particularly in the north and north-east of Kenya, occasionally experience cattle rustling, banditry and ethnic clashes. Foreigners are not usually the target, but you should take great care.
Turkana, West Pokot, Elgeyo-Marakwet, Baringo, Laikipia and Samburu counties
The Kenyan government has imposed a dusk-to-dawn curfew in parts of Turkana, West Pokot, Elgeyo Marakwet, Baringo, Laikipia and Samburu counties. Follow local security measures and use caution.
Kenya-Ethiopia border
Landmines have been used in attacks around Moyale, close to the main A2 road south. Vehicles crossing the Kenya-Ethiopia border at this point should stay on the A2. Avoid staying at the rest house at Sololo – travel directly to Marsabit before breaking the journey.
Mount Elgon
There is a large security presence in Mount Elgon because of armed clashes. Further incidents are possible. Seek local advice before you set off.
