Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

Since 25 March, all international flights to and from Kenya have been suspended by the Kenyan Government. Specially negotiated repatriation flights and cargo flights are excepted, but crew must observe strict guidelines. On 6 April, the suspension of international passenger flights was extended for 30 days.
If you live in the UK and are currently visiting Kenya, you’re strongly advised to return by commercial means. Don’t run the risk of getting stranded.
UK special charter flights will only operate for priority countries where commercial flights are not possible. You should not assume that these flights will become available in Kenya.
Commercial repatriation flight on 24 April
Following discussions between the British High Commission, the Government of Kenya and international airlines, Kenya Airways plan to operate a direct commercial flight from Nairobi to London Heathrow on 24 April, subject to demand.
There will also be a connecting flight from Mombasa to Nairobi operated by Jambo Jet on 24 April; only those travelling on to London will be permitted to board.
How to book
To secure your seat, book on the Kenya Airways website or over the phone on +254 711 024747; +254 734 104747 or +254 203 274 747. Phone lines are operational from 8am to 5pm, 7 days a week.
To book tickets for the connecting flight from Mombasa to Nairobi, contact Jambo Jet on +254 711 024545, +254 734 104545 or reservations@Jambojet.com.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, contact the British High Commission via webform.
Medical certificate requirements
The Government of Kenya and Kenya Airways require passengers and crew on this flight to produce a medical certificate confirming they are free of COVID-19. The cost of a COVID-19 test will be included in the ticket price.
Once you have paid for your flights, you should book a test at any Lancet Laboratories branch. Results should take 24 hours and will be shared with you and Kenya Airways. Test results must be from within 72 hours of check-in.
Any passengers testing positive will not be allowed to travel and will receive a refund of their airfare minus the cost of the test. Anyone testing positive must follow Ministry of Health instructions.
Arrival in the UK
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
If you cannot leave Kenya
If you cannot leave Kenya at this time, you should:
follow the advice of the local authorities, including local measures to help minimise your risk of exposure to coronavirus
find accommodation suitable for your need
keep in regular contact with family and friends at home, so they know you are safe and well
If you need to renew your visa, the Kenyan Immigration Department has announced that visitor pass extensions will be processed online from 13 April 2020. Guidance on how to do so, as well as apply for other forms of documentation such as residence permits, is available here.
See more information and advice about staying where you are if you cannot return to the UK.
Future travel options
The British High Commission continues to work with the government of Kenya and international airlines to determine further options for helping British nationals who wish to return home. However, you should not expect any additional flights immediately.
If you’re in Kenya and wish to register your intention to leave, email the details listed below to the dedicated mailbox returnfromKenya@fco.gov.uk:
your full name as shown on your passport
passport number
date of birth
place of residence in UK
where exactly you are currently staying in Kenya
email address and telephone number (check that you are able to receive phone calls from unidentified numbers, including internationally, in case we need to reach you)
any specific medical needs/vulnerabilities
Please provide the information requested above for any family members with you in Kenya that are also seeking to return to the UK.
If registered with the British High Commission, we will alert you to any opportunities to book onto flights departing Kenya for the UK, should these become available. This travel advice will also be updated when options become available.
Help and support
If you’re in Kenya and in need of urgent help, contact the British High Commission.
If you are vulnerable with health issues, an older person, or will be travelling with young children, you can call: +254202844000 or +254 20 287 3000 and follow the options for consular assistance. The numbers are available 24/7.
The High Commission cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone. This page will be updated when departure options become available or, if you are registered with the High Commission, we will alert you. To get the latest information sign up for travel advice email alerts.
Further information
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
