!
Warning
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to parts of Kenya.

This guide also has safety advice for regions of Kenya.
Terrorism 
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.     
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Kenya
Terrorists are very likely to try to carry out attacks in Kenya.
There is a heightened threat of terrorism across Kenya. Attacks could target westerners, including British nationals. These could occur at any time including at religious events, public holidays or celebrations. Attacks are indiscriminate and could occur in places visited by foreigners, including tourists, such as, but not limited to:
hotels, bars, restaurants and nightclubs
sporting events
supermarkets and shopping centres
beaches
safari parks
commercial and government buildings
places of worship
Be particularly alert in these places. If you go regularly to any location, try to vary timings and patterns of movement. Always travel during daylight hours if possible. Look at the security arrangements in buildings you visit, including bag searches, physical security and guards. The main terrorist threat is from extremists linked to Al Shabaab – an Al Qaida-affiliated militant group in Somalia. Al Shabaab has issued threats and carried out attacks against Kenya, in part, due to Kenyan military intervention in Somalia. See Regional risks.
Recent significant attacks include :
in 2020 Al Shabaab conducted an attack on a military airstrip in Lamu County, killing 3 people
in 2019 there was an attack at the hotel and commercial complex at 14 Riverside in Nairobi, resulting in injuries and loss of life
There is some evidence of growing support for Daesh (formerly ISIL) in Kenya. On 4 January 2024 Daesh published a statement calling for a new global campaign of terrorism including a specific focus on western and Jewish targets. This statement and the ongoing conflict in Israel and the Occupied Palestinian Territories could increase the likelihood of terrorist attacks that affect British nationals.
Lamu Island and Manda Island
Travellers to Lamu Island and Manda Island should be particularly vigilant given the close proximity of these islands to the Lamu County mainland. You should only travel to the islands by air to Lamu airport (a civilian airport on Manda Island), and not by road. The only commercial option for air travel to or from Lamu Island and Manda Island is through Lamu airport. See Regional risks.
Terrorist kidnap
There is a high threat of terrorist kidnap across Kenya. You should be alert to the heightened threat of terrorist kidnapping targeting westerners, including British nationals. Westerners have been the target of kidnaps in northern counties bordering Somalia and coastal counties. Further kidnaps are very likely.    
British nationals are seen as legitimate targets, including tourists, humanitarian aid workers, journalists and business travellers. If you are kidnapped, the reason for your presence is unlikely to protect you or secure your safe release. 
The long-standing policy of the British government is not to make substantive concessions to hostage takers. The British government considers that paying ransoms and releasing prisoners builds the capability of terrorist groups and finances their activities. This can, in turn, increase the risk of further hostage-taking. The Terrorism Act (2000) makes payments to terrorists illegal.
Political situation
Protests, demonstrations and strikes are common in Kenya, particularly in Nairobi. These events often cause traffic disruption and can lead to violence. A number of demonstrators have been injured and killed in recent years. The situation could change quickly, especially on key dates, such as the anniversary of the Finance Bill protests, which took place in June and July 2024. Stay away from political gatherings and large crowds and monitor local media to see when and where major protests are likely. Follow local news and the instructions of local authorities closely.
Crime
There are frequent incidents of violent crime including mugging, armed robbery and carjacking, particularly in the large cities and on major highways.
Although uncommon, violent crimes have resulted in the deaths of British nationals, including during daylight hours.
Avoid walking alone in isolated areas, including in daylight. Criminals might target you directly, so be aware of your surroundings and make sure people know where you are and when you are due to return. The risks are higher in some areas of major cities.
In Nairobi:
Eastleigh
Central Business District
Mathare, Kibera and slum areas
In Mombasa:
in the Old Town
on and around the Likoni Ferry, which links Mombasa to the southern resorts
Crime rates are often higher around the Christmas and New Year period so take extra precautions at this time of year.
Protecting your belongings
Bag-snatching is common in bus stations, railway stations and airports. Be vigilant and take note of any security advice given by your hotel, employer or your hosts. If you’re attacked, do not resist. Avoid carrying large sums of money or wearing expensive-looking jewellery or watches.
Vehicle crime
Always drive with windows closed and doors locked. When driving outside of cities and in remote areas, consider driving in convoy. Avoid driving at night if possible. Carjackers may set up bogus checkpoints. See Transport risks.
Scams
Beware of thieves posing as police officers or private security guards. It’s a technique used by criminals to take charge of valuables, passports and vehicles and steal them. Always ask for identification.
Drink and food spiking
Do not accept drinks or food from strangers in bars or clubs. Criminals spike drinks to weaken and confuse their victims and then commit theft or sexual assault.
Attacks and sexual assault
Sexual assaults are rare, but do happen, and can affect both male and female travellers.
Social media and dating apps
Criminals can use dating apps to identify victims to rob or sexually assault. There has been an increase in criminals targeting LGBT+ travellers in particular. Be cautious when using social media and dating apps. If you decide to meet someone, meet in a well-lit, public place and make sure that someone knows where you are.
Laws and cultural differences
Personal ID
You must always carry ID. A copy of your passport is normally acceptable, but police officers may insist on seeing the original document so keep it within a reasonable travelling distance.
Dress code
The coastal areas of Kenya are mainly Muslim. Show courtesy by dressing conservatively away from tourist resorts and hotels – particularly in Mombasa. Wearing holiday-style clothing is likely to get negative attention at religious sites or buildings.   
Smoking and e-cigarette bans
It is illegal to smoke in any public place in Kenya, except in designated smoking areas. If you smoke in a prohibited place, you could get a fine of up to 50,000 Kenyan shillings or up to 6 months in prison.
Illegal drugs and prison sentences
If you’re convicted of using illegal drugs in Kenya, you will get a heavy fine and prison sentence. The penalty for possession is up to 10 years in prison. People found to be trafficking illegal drugs could face life imprisonment.
Using cameras in secure areas
It is illegal to take photographs of official buildings, including embassies, or at airports. You could be arrested if caught.
LGBT+ travellers
Same-sex sexual activity is illegal and same-sex relationships are not tolerated in Kenya’s conservative society. Showing affection in public could lead to arrest and imprisonment. See the ‘Social media and dating apps’ subheading for more advice.
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Wildlife, animal products and souvenirs
It is illegal to buy, sell, kill or capture any protected wild animal or trade any of its parts without a licence. If you are caught buying or trafficking banned goods, you could face a fine or prison sentence.
Outdoor activities and adventure tourism
Game reserves and national parks
If you’re visiting game reserves, use reputable tour operators and arrive at your destination in daylight hours. Do not buy safari tours from touts. Always follow park regulations and advice from wardens.
There are risks associated with viewing wildlife, particularly on foot or at close range. Swimming in rivers and lakes is illegal in national parks and is best avoided elsewhere due the dangers from wildlife and waterborne diseases.
Hiking and mountaineering
You must hire a local guide on certain hikes in Kenya. Be conscious of the risk from wildlife and do not approach wild animals. Make sure your travel insurance covers all your planned activities.
Altitude sickness is a risk when hiking in high-altitude areas, including on Mount Kenya. Read about altitude sickness on TravelHealthPro.
Transport risks
Road travel
If you are planning to drive in Kenya, see information on driving abroad.
You can use a UK photocard driving licence in Kenya for up to 3 months. If you still have a paper driving licence, you may need to update it to a photocard licence.
After 3 months, you’ll need to have both the 1968 version of the international driving permit (IDP) and your UK driving licence with you in the car. You cannot buy an IDP outside the UK, so get one before you travel.
If you’re staying longer or living in Kenya, you’ll need to get a Kenyan driving licence.
Driving standards are often poor. There is a risk of vehicle crime – see Crime.
Jomo Kenyatta International Airport to Nairobi City
For travel between Jomo Kenyatta International Airport and Nairobi City, use the Mombasa Road or the Nairobi Expressway. There is a higher risk of carjacking on the old airport road (Airport South Road) and Jogoo Road.
The Mombasa Road can get very busy during rush hour, and check-in can take several hours. Allow plenty of time to get to the airport. A vehicle security check outside the airport may add to your journey time.
Travel in remote areas
Monitor local media and take care in all remote areas. The Kenya Tourism Federation Safety and Communication Center provides tourist advice and emergency help.
Bus travel
There have been serious accidents involving long-distance buses and minibuses (‘matatus’). The accidents are often due to poor maintenance and speeding. Often minibuses are uninsured. Check operators’ safety standards.
There are frequent minibus hijackings and robberies.
Driving fines
On-the-spot fines from traffic police are common but illegal. If a traffic police officer stops you, ask them to issue you with the correct paperwork.
Air travel
If you charter a private aircraft, check with the company about the condition of the aircraft and runways. If the air crew does not include a safety pilot, qualified to take over the controls, find another company that does.
Rail travel
Passenger trains run between Nairobi and Mombasa. Take care of your belongings while on the train and at railway stations. If you leave your compartment, take your valuables with you.
Sea travel
Piracy and armed robbery off the coast of Somalia, in the Gulf of Aden and Indian Ocean remain a significant threat.
See piracy and armed robbery at sea.
Extreme weather and natural disasters
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards.
Earthquakes
Kenya lies on an active fault and tremors occur from time to time. The last significant earthquake to affect the region was of magnitude 5.2 in 2007.
The US Federal Emergency Management Agency has advice about what to do before, during and after an earthquake.
