This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Kenya as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Kenya to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Commercial repatriation flight to Kenya on 19 June
Kenya Airways plan to operate a flight from London Heathrow to Jomo Kenyatta International Airport on 19 June. If you hold a valid Kenyan residency permit and need to return, you can book tickets on the [Kenya Airways website] (www.kenya-airways.com/en-uk/charter-flights) or via the Kenya Airways call centre on +254 711 024 747.
For more information regarding this flight’s pre-departure COVID-19 testing requirements, you should contact Kenya Airways or the Kenyan High Commission in London.
Any person entering Kenya, including from the UK, must quarantine in a government of Kenya-designated facility for a minimum of 14 days at their own expense. See Entry requirements
Moving around in Kenya
A daily nationwide curfew is in effect from 9pm to 4am (local time). During this window, everyone must stay at home or indoors, except for essential service workers.
On 6 June, the restrictions of road, rail and air movements in and out of the Nairobi Metropolitan area, and Mombasa and Mandera Counties, were extended for 30 days. Movements within those designated areas are still permitted. The same restrictions were lifted for the neighbourhoods of Eastleigh (Nairobi) and Old Town (Mombasa), and Kwale and Kilifi Counties, on 7 June.
The government of Kenya has directed that face masks must be worn in public places, including supermarkets, and when using public and private transport. Social distancing rules have also been extended to apply during the use of private vehicles. Car owners are now limited to carrying 50% of their vehicle’s passenger capacity. This means five-seater vehicles will only be allowed to carry one passenger in addition to the driver, while seven-seater vehicles will only be allowed two passengers in addition to the driver.
All bars are closed until further notice. Restaurants can operate ‘takeaway’ services and have been allowed to reopen, provided they comply with Government of Kenya public health protocols, including on social distancing and the daily curfew.
The government has directed public places to set a maximum capacity to conform to social distance requirements of at least 1.5 metres. Shops, supermarkets and public transport systems are also implementing measures to ensure social distancing.
All gatherings, meetings, conferences and events of an international nature have been banned. Kenyan citizens have been advised to avoid crowded places and to work remotely where possible.
Visas
If you need to renew your visa, the Kenyan Immigration Department has announced that visitor pass extensions will be processed online from 13 April 2020. Guidance on how to do so, as well as apply for other forms of documentation such as residence permits, is available from the Kenyan Immigration Department.
Health
The government of Kenya has indicated that persons testing positive for COVID-19, but presenting as asymptomatic or with only mild symptoms, can expect to be directed to self-isolate at home if able to do so. Vulnerable persons will be prioritised for hospital care. Ministry of Health guidance is available.
Pharmacies and other shops selling essential products remain open, though business hours may be affected by the daily nationwide curfew.
The authorities are conducting random temperature screenings in spaces frequented by the general public. If you show signs or symptoms of coronavirus and are able to self-isolate, you can expect to be directed to do so. If you cannot self-isolate, you can expect to be taken into a State health facility by the Kenyan authorities.
For contact details for doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Kenya.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Kenya and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This is a last resort option for those most in need and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact the British High Commission.
If you are vulnerable with health issues, an older person, or travelling with young children, you can call: +254202844000 or +254 20 287 3000 and follow the options for consular assistance. The numbers are available 24/7.
For more details on measures in Kenya, see the Kenya Ministry of Health website.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
