Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Burkina Faso on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
Air borders have reopened with some flights starting to operate. Land borders are currently closed for private journeys. (See Safety and security).
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Burkina Faso.
Returning to the UK
Travelling from and returning to the UK
Check what you must do to travel abroad and return to England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
If you plan to pass through another country to return to the UK, check the travel advice for the country you’re transiting. If you will pass through a red list country, book your hotel quarantine package before travelling to the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements. You should contact local authorities for information on testing facilities (available in French only).
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Burkina Faso
Face masks
Wearing face masks in public places is mandatory.
Healthcare in Burkina Faso
If you think you have COVID-19 symptoms, you should call the government helpline on 52-19-53-94 or 70-95-93-27
Isolation is compulsory for those who have tested positive for coronavirus, and two week quarantine for anyone who has had physical contact with a confirmed case.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Burkina Faso
Wherever possible British nationals should aim to be vaccinated in the country where they live. We will update this page when the government of Burkina Faso announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Burkina Faso national vaccination programme started in May 2021, using the AstraZeneca vaccine. The first phase of the vaccination programme is focused on the following priority groups: healthcare workers; those with pre-existing health conditions; and those travelling to Mecca. British nationals who are resident in Burkina Faso are eligible for vaccination in line with the national programme. You should contact your local healthcare provider for further information.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in Burkina Faso, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
The Burkina Faso government has launched a hotline on +226 01 60 89 89 / +226 52 19 53 94 / +226 70 95 93 27 and a Freephone information number 3535.
If you need urgent consular assistance whilst you remain in Burkina Faso, you can contact the British High Commission in Accra on +233 302 213 250.
The British High Commission in Accra cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone.
