This page has information on travelling to Burkina Faso.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Burkina Faso set and enforce entry rules. If you’re unsure how Burkina Faso’s entry requirements apply to you, contact its UK embassy, high commission or consulate.
All travellers
All international travellers will need to present a negative COVID-19 PCR test certificate, dated no more than 5 days prior to arrival in Burkina Faso.
Passengers arriving in Burkina Faso without a negative PCR test, dated no more than 5 days prior to entry, will have their identity documents temporarily confiscated by the authorities and will be required to take a rapid diagnostic test (RDT) and a PCR test. Confiscated identity documents will be returned after verification of payment for the tests. In the event of a positive RDT test, travellers will be placed in quarantine at their own expense at a government allocated hotel for 72 hours while awaiting the results of the PCR test.
If you’re fully vaccinated
Entry requirements for Burkina Faso are the same for all travellers, regardless of COVID-19 vaccination status.
Proof of vaccination status
You don’t need to provide proof of your vaccination status for entry to Burkina Faso.
If you’re not fully vaccinated
Entry requirements for Burkina Faso are the same for all travellers, regardless of COVID-19 vaccination status.
Children and young people
RDT and PCR tests are free for children under 6 years old. For those passengers aged 6 and over, there is a sum of 90,000 FCFA (approximately £118) to pay in cash to the health authorities at the airport.
If you’re transiting through Burkina Faso
Transiting is when you pass through one country on the way to your final destination. Check with your airline before departing.
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
You should check with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Passport validity
Your passport should be valid for the proposed duration of your stay. No additional period of validity beyond this is needed.
Visas
You’ll need a visa to enter Burkina Faso. If you live in the UK, you should apply for a visa direct from the Embassy of Burkina Faso in Brussels. Contrary to the information on the Embassy’s website, there is currently no other method of obtaining a visa for Burkina Faso in the UK.
There are also Burkinabe Embassies in the region, including in Accra and Abidjan.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are accepted for entry, airside transit and exit from Burkina Faso.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
