Coronavirus guidance is being updated.
Read the Prime Minister’s statement for the latest information.

There are currently no commercial options available to return to the UK from Burkina Faso. Burkina Faso’s borders and international airports remain closed until further notice.
We know this is concerning for British people trying to leave Burkina Faso. The UK government is working closely with airlines, the Burkina Faso authorities and other governments to make sure options are available for you to return to the UK as soon as possible.
If you cannot leave at this time, see advice on staying in Burkina Faso during coronavirus
Future options
This travel advice will be updated when departure options become available. Sign up for travel advice email alerts and, if you are a British national, register your interest in returning to the UK by submitting your details via web form.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM is a commercial partner of the FCO and authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Your journey home: re-entering the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK. You:
need to provide your journey and contact details up to 48 hours before you’re due to arrive in the UK
are not allowed to leave the place you’re staying for the first 14 days you’re in the UK except in very limited situations (known as ‘self-isolating’)
See also the list of people who are exempt from the border rules.
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) also provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
Help and Support
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British High Commission in Accra on +233 302 213 250. However consular support is extremely limited in Burkina Faso. See Summary.
The British High Commission in Accra cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone. This page will be updated when departure options become available.
To get the latest information, sign up for travel advice email alerts
