!
Warning
FCDO advises against all travel to Burkina Faso.

Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Burkina Faso
Terrorists are very likely to try to carry out attacks in Burkina Faso.  
Several terrorist groups operate in Burkina Faso, including Jama’a Nusrat ul-Islam wa al-Muslimin (JNIM) and Islamic State.
There is a high threat from terrorism throughout the country, including increasingly in the capital, Ouagadougou. Terrorist attacks could be indiscriminate, including in places frequented by foreign nationals, such as:
diplomatic premises
conference centres
tourist sites
sporting and cultural events including music festivals
shopping centres
transport hubs
religious sites and places of worship, particularly churches
national parks and nature reserves
foreign, national or local government buildings
large crowds
There may be a heightened risk of attack during festivals, and religious and public holiday periods. Stay aware of your surroundings, keep up to date with local media reports and follow the advice of the local authorities.
There are frequent attacks across Burkina Faso, particularly close to the borders with Mali, Niger and Côte d’Ivoire and in the eastern region.
Examples of significant attacks include:
in August 2024, at least 400 people were killed in a village attack in Barsalogho, Sanmatenga 
in July 2024, the office of Doctors Without Borders (MSF) was attacked by gunfire in Djibo, Sahel 
in February 2024, at least 15 people were killed in an attack on a church in Essakane, Oudalan 
in February 2024, at least 12 people were killed in an attack on a mosque in Natiaboani, Gourma 
in 2023, two foreign nationals were killed in an attack on a commercial truck convoy on the N3 (near Diori), Sahel  
in 2023, around 20 people were killed in attacks on 6 villages in the southwest of Seytenga including Foufou, Mira and Lipsi
Terrorist kidnap 
There’s a very high threat of kidnapping by Al-Qaeda and regional Islamic State-affiliated groups in Burkina Faso. These include Jamaat Nusrat al-Islam wal Muslimeen (JNIM) and Islamic State Greater Sahara (ISGS ), who operate throughout Mali, Niger and Burkina Faso.
A number of foreign nationals have been kidnapped and killed in Burkina Faso in recent years, especially in the northeast of the country.
British nationals are seen as legitimate targets, including tourists, humanitarian aid workers, journalists and business travellers. If you are kidnapped, the reason for your presence is unlikely to protect you or secure your safe release.  
If you’re working or travelling in Burkina Faso, you should be aware of the risk of terrorist kidnapping. You should maintain a high level of vigilance at all times, including when travelling. You should be particularly vigilant when walking in crowded public places, including camps for displaced people, religious gatherings and insecure spaces like places of worship, markets, shopping malls, hotels, bars, night clubs, restaurants, nature reserves and national parks, and transport hubs. You should avoid regular patterns of travel and aim to only travel during daylight hours.
The long-standing policy of the British government is to not make substantive concessions to hostage takers. The British government considers that paying ransoms and releasing prisoners builds the capability of terrorist groups and finances their activities. This can, in turn, increase the risk of further hostage-taking. The Terrorism Act (2000) makes payments to terrorists illegal.
Political situation
The political situation also remains unstable following the military coup on 30 September 2022. Further coups are possible. If you choose to travel to Burkina Faso, you should remain vigilant and monitor local media.
The government has declared a state of emergency in the regions of:
Centre-Est
Est
Centre Nord
Nord
Boucle du Mouhoun
Sahel
Hauts-Bassins
Cascades
The measure gives security forces extra powers to conduct searches, restrict freedom of movement and detain persons of interest. Some civil rights may be suspended, including the right to protest and to hold large meetings. The military takeover in neighbouring Niger in 2023 may lead to unrest or protests in Ouagadougou.
Protests are common in Burkina Faso. Avoid political rallies, gatherings and demonstrations. Crowds can gather quickly and may become violent. Foreign, national and local government facilities have been targeted and damaged in previous demonstrations.
Monitor the local news to help you avoid such gatherings. If you become aware of a crowd gathering, leave the area immediately.
Crime
Vehicle crime
There is an increasing number of vehicle hold-ups on roads outside Ouagadougou. Drivers that refuse to stop when flagged down have been shot at.
Armed groups have also stopped drivers to rob passengers and their vehicles. Criminals have stopped public buses to assault and rob passengers, particularly at night.
Street crime
Street crime is a serious risk for foreign visitors. Most incidents are opportunist snatches of purses, wallets, jewellery and other valuables. Thieves are particularly active near the UN Circle and the former Central Market in Ouagadougou, and are often armed. Do not carry valuables in public places or walk alone at night.
Criminal kidnapping 
Kidnapping by criminal groups is widespread across Niger, Mali and Burkina Faso. There is a possibility that criminal groups could sell people they kidnap as hostages to terrorist organisations.
British nationals are seen as legitimate targets, including tourists, humanitarian aid workers, journalists and business travellers. If you are kidnapped, the reason for your presence is unlikely to protect you or secure your safe release. You should avoid regular patterns of travel and aim to only travel during daylight hours.
Laws and cultural differences
Personal ID
Always carry your passport or residence permit.
Ramadan
Ramadan is a holy month for Muslims. The dates vary by year and country. During this time, do not:
eat, drink, smoke or chew gum in public in the daytime, including in your car
play loud music or dance
swear in public
Get more advice when you arrive from your tour guide, hotel or business contacts.
Illegal drugs and prison sentences
Do not get involved in drugs of any kind. If you’re convicted of possessing or distributing any illegal drug, you can expect heavy fines and long jail sentences. Local prison conditions are harsh.
Using cameras and filmmaking
Do not take pictures of military or other government installations.  
LGBT+ travellers
Same-sex sexual activity is legal, however the government of Burkina Faso has announced their intention to criminalise it and plans for enforcement are uncertain.
This announcement is likely to draw attention to this issue and increase the risk of violence and threats, such as blackmail and intimidation, against anyone thought to be part of the LGBT+ community or perceived to be supporting their rights.  
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Souvenirs
There are strict customs regulations about taking cultural objects like masks, religious materials and antiquities out of Burkina Faso. If you’re unsure about buying any souvenirs you find for sale, contact the Ministry of Culture.
Money
A few of the larger hotels and restaurants in Ouagadougou accept credit cards. You’re unlikely to be able to use them anywhere outside the capital. There are a few ATMs in Ouagadougou, but they only accept Visa cards.
The best option is to bring US dollars in cash to exchange.
Transport risks
Road travel
If you’re planning to drive in Burkina Faso, see information on driving abroad.
Get security advice about travelling by road anywhere outside Ouagadougou.
You can use a UK photocard driving licence to drive in Burkina Faso. If you still have a paper driving licence, you may need to update it to a photocard licence or get the 1949 version of the international driving permit (IDP).
Roads, even if they are paved, are in a poor state of repair. Road conditions off the main roads are often difficult, especially in the rainy season from June to October. Vehicles are often in poor condition.
Avoid travelling at night, even if using a local driver. Roads have very limited lighting, and vehicles often have no headlights. Livestock, pedestrians and motorbikes on the roads are additional hazards.
Using secure vehicles
If you decide to travel outside the capital against FCDO advice, get professional security advice. There is danger of armed attacks on all roads, but especially:
from Ouagadougou to Bobo-Dioulasso
from Bobo-Dioulasso to Côte d’Ivoire
from Fada to Benin and Togo
to Benin, Bogandée and Gayeri
to Niger
Stay on clearly marked roads or tracks and avoid minor roads unless travelling in convoy. There is limited access to phone networks, so consider taking a satellite phone in case you break down or have another emergency. Always carry drinking water with you.
Extreme weather and natural disasters
The rainy season normally runs from June to October. Torrential rains can cause floods and landslides. Monitor local weather reports and expect difficulties when travelling to affected areas during this season.
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards.
