This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Burkina Faso as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Burkina Faso to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Burkina Faso
If you cannot leave Burkina Faso at this time, you should:
follow the advice of local authorities, including local measures to help minimise your risk of exposure to coronavirus;
find accommodation that is suitable for your needs;
keep in contact with friends and family at home so that they know you are safe and well
See more information and advice about staying where you are if you cannot return to the UK.
Local measures
The following restrictions are in place until further notice:
isolation for those who have tested positive for coronavirus and two week quarantine for anyone who has had physical contact with a confirmed case
a ban on long distance passenger transport, with the following cities closed for entry and exit: Ouagadougou, Bobo Dioulasso, Boromo, Dédougou, Houndé, Banfora, Manga and Zorgho
a nationwide curfew between the hours of 9 pm and 4 am
closure of all land borders, and closure of Ouagadougou International Airport and Bobo-Dioulasso Airport to international commercial flights
mandatory wearing of face masks in public from Monday 27 April
The Burkina Faso government has launched a hotline on +226 01 60 89 89 / +226 52 19 53 94 / +226 70 95 93 27 and a Freephone information number 3535.
Health
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Burkina-Faso.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
