Terrorists are very likely to try to carry out attacks in Burkina Faso, including the capital Ouagadougou. Attacks could be indiscriminate and occur without warning, affecting Burkina Faso security forces, schools and markets. You should be especially vigilant and where possible avoid places frequented by foreigners including, diplomatic premises, hotels, restaurants, bars, nightclubs, shopping areas, airports and other transport hubs, places of worship and religious sites (particularly churches), national parks and businesses with Western interests. Foreign, national or local government facilities and large crowds may also be a target. You should be vigilant, be alert to announcements, monitor local media and follow the advice of the local authorities. Avoid all large gatherings, including during national day celebrations and public holidays. You should exercise particular caution around religious holidays.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out more about the global threat from terrorism.
Burkina Faso contributes to the UN peacekeeping initiative in Mali (MINUSMA) and is therefore considered a legitimate target by Al-Qaida in the Islamic Maghreb (AQ-M) and its associated groups. On 18 September 2018, armed, masked men purporting to be members of AQ-M posted an online video announcing their presence in Burkina Faso.
In June 2019, Burkina Faso passed a law criminalising the dissemination of information about terrorist attacks and security forces that could undermine public order or the conduct of security operations.
A state of emergency remains in place in the East and Sahel regions, the western provinces of Kossi and Sourou, the central-eastern province of Koulpélogo, the western province of Kénédougou and northern province of Lorum. The measure gives security forces extra powers to search homes and restrict freedom of movement.
On 20 June 2022, the Burkinabe military created two military zones in response to the attacks which took place in Seytenga in the province of Seno on 11 June 2022. These zones are in Soum in the north, and in the south-east on the border with Benin. All civilians have been asked to leave these areas immediately ahead of military operations to clear insurgents which are due to start on 8 July.
Security mitigation is limited outside the capital Ouagadougou. There have been regular attacks on police, military personnel and civilians, particularly close to the borders with Mali, Niger and Cote d’Ivoire and in the Eastern Region.
Notable recent attacks include:
On 11 June 2022, over 100 people were killed following a terrorist attack in Seytenga in the province of Seno, close to the border with Niger
On 4 to 5 June 2021, over 160 people were killed in an attack on the village of Solhan in north-eastern Burkina Faso
On 26 April 2021, one Irish national and two Spanish nationals were killed in an ambush on the PK 60 road between Fada-N’Gourma and Pama
On 29 to 30 May 2020, around 50 people were killed in three separate attacks in the eastern Kompienga region, and in the northern provinces of Sanmatenga and Loroum. The deadliest of these attacks killed at least 25 people after unidentified gunmen opened fire at a cattle market
On 24 December 2019, 42 people were killed following a terrorist attack at a military outpost, The attack took place in Arbinda in northern Soum province, close to the border with Mali
On 1 December 2019, at least 14 people were killed after gunmen opened fire inside a church in Hantoukoura, eastern Burkina Faso
On 5 November 2019, 37 civilians were killed and 60 injured following an attack on a convoy carrying workers to a Canadian gold mine near Boungou, in eastern Burkina Faso
There have also been attacks in the capital, Ouagadougou:
In March 2018, an attack took place on the French Embassy and the Army Headquarters. 16 people were killed, including 8 attackers, and 80 people injured
In May 2018, Burkinabe security forces engaged the suspected attackers in the Rayongo district, on the outskirts of the capital. Three suspected terrorists were killed, and 5 gendarmes and 1 civilian wounded. Weapons and bomb-making materials were found at the scene
There is a heightened threat of terrorist attack globally against UK interests and British nationals, from groups or individuals motivated by the conflict in Iraq and Syria.
Kidnap
There remains a high threat of kidnap in Burkina Faso, including Ouagadougou, and the wider Sahel region This threat is likely to continue as groups remain intent on demonstrating capability and increasing influence across the region. In March 2017, AQ-M Sahel, Ansar al-Dine and al-Murabitun merged into the new group ‘Jamaat Nusrat al-Islam wal Muslimeen’, demonstrating their continued intent to conduct attacks and kidnaps across the region. There is a good chance that AQ-affiliate JNIM will continue to target foreign nationals. Read more about the threat from terrorism in the Sahel.
Westerners have been kidnapped in Burkina Faso and the wider Sahel region. On 15 January 2019, a Canadian citizen was kidnapped near Gayeri in the Est region and found dead near the Niger border 2 days later. In mid-December 2018, a Canadian and Italian were kidnapped in southwest Burkina Faso. They were found alive by UN peacekeepers in March 2020 in north east Mali after reportedly escaping. In September 2018, 2 foreign nationals were kidnapped in the far north by an armed group. In January 2016, 2 western nationals were abducted in the northern town of Djibo near the border with Mali, one of whom has since been released. A number of hostages kidnapped in Burkina Faso are still being held by terrorist groups.
If you’re working or travelling in Burkina Faso, you should be aware of the risk of terrorist kidnapping. You should maintain a high level of vigilance at all times, including when travelling and in crowded public places, including camps for displaced people, religious gatherings and insecure spaces like places of worship, markets, shopping areas, hotels, bars, nightclubs, restaurants and transport hubs. You should make sure you have carefully considered the threat and have reasonable, proportionate mitigation measures in place.
British nationals are viewed as legitimate targets, including those engaged in tourism, humanitarian aid work, journalism or business sectors. If you’re kidnapped, the reason for your presence is unlikely to serve as a protection or secure your safe release.
The long-standing policy of the British government is not to make substantive concessions to hostage takers. The British government considers that paying ransoms and releasing prisoners builds the capability of terrorist groups and finances their activities. This can, in turn, increase the risk of further hostage-taking. The Terrorism Act (2000) makes payments to terrorists illegal.
