!
Warning
FCDO advises against all travel to parts of Burkina Faso.

The Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) provides advice about risks of travel to help British nationals make informed decisions. Find out more about FCDO travel advice.
  Areas where FCDO advises against travel
Your travel insurance could be invalidated if you travel against FCDO advice.
FCDO advises against all travel to Burkina Faso, except to the capital, Ouagadougou.
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to Ouagadougou, up to the toll booths on all roads out of the city.
This is due to the threat of terrorist attacks and terrorist kidnap, and the unstable political situation in the country.
Find out more about why FCDO advises against travel.
Security situation in Burkina Faso 
The security situation in Burkina Faso has deteriorated significantly in recent years and remains volatile. The political situation also remains unstable following the military coup on 30 September 2022. Further coups are possible. If you choose to travel to Burkina Faso, you should remain vigilant and monitor local media.
Limited consular support 
There is no British Embassy in Burkina Faso and all consular support is provided from the British Embassy in Accra, Ghana. They cannot provide in-person assistance.
If there is serious violence, unrest or a deterioration in the security situation, it could be difficult to leave safely. Do not rely on the British government to evacuate you as they may not be able to do so. Have your own plans on how you would leave the country, make sure you keep all travel documentation up to date and monitor the local situation.
Before you travel
No travel can be guaranteed safe. Read all the advice in this guide and any specific travel advice that applies to you:
women travellers
disabled people
LGBT+ people
Follow and contact FCDO travel on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram. You can also sign up to get email notifications when this advice is updated. 
Travel insurance
If you choose to travel, research your destinations and get appropriate travel insurance. Insurance should cover your itinerary, planned activities and expenses in an emergency.
