Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Saudi Arabia on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
In response to the spread of a new strain of COVID-19, entry into Saudi Arabia is currently suspended from 13 countries: Afghanistan, Argentina, Brazil, Egypt, Ethiopia, India, Indonesia, Lebanon, Pakistan, South Africa, Turkey, the United Arab Emirates and Vietnam. The suspension is also applicable to travellers who have visited or transited any of the listed countries 14 days prior to entering Saudi Arabia. Health workers, diplomats and Saudi nationals, and their families are exempt from the suspension but may still be required to complete a period of home quarantine and PCR tests on arrival. Check full details on the Saudia website.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Saudi Arabia.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements. You should contact local authorities for information on testing facilities. Tests are also available to residents via the government’s Sehhaty app.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Saudi Arabia
There are no restrictions on travel to and from airports and ports. All modes of public transport (taxis, buses, trains and others) are permitted to operate at full capacity. The Saudi authorities have announced that wearing a face mask in public places is mandatory. Preventative measures remain in force.
The Saudi authorities will keep this plan under review depending on the progress of the virus. You should monitor announcements issued by the Saudi Ministry of Health and Ministry of Interior for any updates. The Saudi authorities may implement localised lockdowns in response to the detection of infection clusters. If you are subject to a localised lockdown, follow the instructions of the authorities.
Relevant penalties for breaches of regulations can be found on the Ministry of Interior website (see page three of this document)
Accommodation
Hotels and private rentals are open and available to book. Hygiene measures are in place, including temperature checks on entry and hand sanitiser in public spaces.
Public spaces and services
The Ministry of Interior announced that dine-in services in cafes and restaurants could resume from Sunday 7 March 2021. Cinemas, indoor entertainment centres, gyms and sports centres are also open. Events and parties in banquet halls, wedding halls, hotels, rest houses and camps remain suspended.
Many public places have hygiene measures in place, including taking a temperature check and sanitising hands upon entry. You are required to show your health status on the Tawakkalna app before being allowed to enter. Wearing a face mask in public places is mandatory. All gatherings must be limited to no more than 20 people.
Healthcare in Saudi Arabia
Select hospitals have been designated to treat patients with coronavirus. The Ministry of Health has a dedicated call centre (937) available 24/7 for residents and citizens to utilise in case of any enquiries regarding coronavirus.
For contact details for doctors, visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Saudi Arabia.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Saudi Arabia
Wherever possible British nationals should aim to be vaccinated in the country where they live. As further information is available about the national vaccination programme, this page will be updated. Sign up to get email notifications.
Saudi Arabia began its vaccination programme on 17 December 2020. British Nationals resident in Saudi Arabia are eligible to register their interest in receiving a vaccine via the Sehatty app. Once you are eligible, you will receive a message via the app to choose a date and time to attend the appointment that is suitable for you.
The Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) is the UK authority responsible for assessing the safety, quality and efficacy of vaccines. It has authorised the Pfizer/BioNTech, Oxford/AstraZeneca and Moderna vaccines for temporary supply and use in the UK. Find out more about MHRA approval for these vaccines.
British nationals living overseas should seek medical advice from their local healthcare provider in the country where they reside. Information about vaccines used in other national programmes, including regulatory status, should be available from the local authorities. This list of Stringent Regulatory Authorities recognised by the World Health Organisation may also be a useful source of additional information. Find out more about COVID-19 vaccines on the World Health Organization COVID-19 vaccines page.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
