This page has information on travelling to Saudi Arabia. Check what you must do to return to the UK.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport from the UK, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Saudi Arabia set and enforce entry rules.
All travellers
You will need a visa to enter or travel through Saudi Arabia as a visitor. You can apply for a tourist visa online. Muslim tourists may perform Umrah on a tourist visa, but a separate visa is needed for Hajj. See separate guidance on the Umrah application process in the Pilgrimage section. If you’re travelling for any other purpose, you should apply for a visa through visa agencies accredited to the Royal Embassy of Saudi Arabia. If you over-stay your visa you will be fined and deported.
If you’re planning to travel to Saudi Arabia via the causeway from Bahrain, you should check the terms of your Saudi visa before travelling. Saudi visas may only allow for entry into the country by air and may prevent you from entering across a land border including via the causeway from Bahrain.
British residents in Saudi Arabia will need a valid exit or re-entry permit from the Saudi Minis-try of Interior to leave and re-enter the country.
All travellers must provide a negative PCR test certificate issued from a verified laboratory that does not exceed 48 hours from the time the test is undertaken until their departure to the Kingdom.
All visitors must fill out the Registration Immunization Information Form before travelling to the Kingdom.
If you’re fully vaccinated
If you’re fully vaccinated, you can enter Saudi Arabia without needing to quarantine.
Find out if you qualify as fully vaccinated in Saudi Arabia on Saudia’s Travel Guidelines and Requirements.
Proof of vaccination status
You must present proof that you have been fully vaccinated to enter Saudi Arabia. Visitors must carry their vaccine certificates at all times during their stay in the Kingdom, or be able to prove their health status through the Tawakkalna application.
You can use the NHS COVID Pass to demonstrate your vaccination record when entering Saudi Arabia.
If you’re not fully vaccinated
Visitors who are not fully vaccinated are required to complete 3 days’ institutional quarantine.
Find out if you qualify as fully vaccinated in Saudi Arabia on Saudia’s Travel Guidelines and Requirements.
If you’ve had COVID-19 in the past year
Recovery from COVID-19 will not be regarded as a justification for being exempt from institutional quarantine.
Children and young people
Vaccination requirements apply to all visitors aged 12 and over.
Children aged 7 and under do not need to show proof of a negative PCR test to enter Saudi Arabia.
Children aged 11 and under who are accompanying tourist visa holders are allowed to enter the Kingdom without quarantining, provided the accompanying adult is not subject to quarantine measures.
If you’re transiting through Saudi Arabia
Transiting is when you pass through one country on the way to your final destination.
Transiting through Saudi Arabia is permitted for travellers who are fully vaccinated with Saudi-approved Covid-19 vaccines and can provide a negative PCR test.
Further information about transiting through Saudi Arabia can be found on the Saudia website.
Exemptions
The following categories are exempted from providing a PCR test before arrival when accompanying Saudi Nationals:
Spouse of a Saudi National
Children of a Saudi National
Parents of Saudi Nationals
Domestic workers
The following categories are exempt from institutional quarantine:
Diplomats and their families
Cabin crews
Health practitioners and their families
Those involved in health supply chains, according to the Ministry of Health
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
Passport validity
If you are entering Saudi Arabia, your passport should be valid for a minimum period of six months from the date you arrive.
Check with your travel provider to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Visas
All visitors, including pilgrims, need a visa to enter Saudi Arabia.
You can apply for a tourist visa online or on arrival at any of Saudi Arabia’s international airports. Muslim tourists may perform Umrah on a tourist visa, but a separate visa is needed for Hajj. See separate guidance on the Umrah application process in the Pilgrimage section
Tourist visas are valid for 360 days from the date of issue and can be used for visits of up to 90 days. A daily fine will be levied if you overstay your visa.
If you’re travelling for any other purpose, you should apply for a visa through visa agencies accredited to the Royal Embassy of Saudi Arabia. If you overstay your visa you will be fined and deported.
If you’re transiting through Saudi Arabia, you may need a transit visa if the connecting time between your flights is more than 12 hours. Once the ticket is issued, you should confirm with your airline or travel agency if you need a transit visa. You should be able to apply for a transit visa through your airline, travel agency or through an established agent via the visa section of the Royal Embassy of Saudi Arabia.
If you’re planning to travel to Saudi Arabia via the causeway from Bahrain, you should check the terms of your Saudi visa before travelling. If you’re planning to apply for a visa, you should seek advice (eg from your visa agent, the Saudi Embassy or your employer) about the visa options available to you. Saudi visas may only allow for entry into the country by air and may prevent you from entering across a land border including via the causeway from Bahrain.
Around the time of the Hajj, the Directorate of Civil Aviation of Saudi Arabia have previously imposed restrictions on Muslim visitors flying to Jeddah, Madinah and Taif for reasons other than the Hajj pilgrimage. During this time, Muslim visitors may only be allowed to board flights to Jeddah, Madinah and Taif if they have a valid Hajj visa. Muslim visitors with business or visit visas will still be able to enter Saudi Arabia through other entry points. This regulation does not apply to Muslim travellers with valid Saudi residency permits, although anecdotal evidence has suggested that in recent years even Muslim residency permit holders have had difficulties boarding flights to these destinations in the days immediately before Hajj.
If you’re a non-Muslim visitor travelling to these destinations, you may be asked to explain the purpose of your trip or asked to show evidence of an appointment before being allowed to board a flight to Jeddah. For further detailed advice on visa requirements for Hajj and Umrah, contact the Royal Embassy of Saudi Arabia in London.
British residents in Saudi Arabia will need a valid exit or re-entry permit from the Saudi Ministry of Interior to leave the country.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are not valid for entry into Saudi Arabia or for transiting through Saudi Arabia. However, ETDs are accepted for exit from Saudi Arabia.
Previous travel to Israel
You may be refused entry to Saudi Arabia if your passport contains evidence of previous travel to Israel or indicates Israel as your birthplace.
Female travellers
If you are a female visitor arriving on a non-tourist visa, or a resident, you must be met by your sponsor on arrival. Otherwise you may face delays before being allowed to enter the country or to continue on other flights.
Foreign women married to Saudi nationals must have a re-entry or final exit permit issued by their husband to leave Saudi Arabia.
Returning to the UK
Check what you must do to return to the UK.
