!
Warning
FCDO advises against all travel to parts of Saudi Arabia.

The Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) cannot provide tailored advice for individual trips. Read this travel advice and carry out your own research before deciding whether to travel. 
Emergency services in Saudi Arabia  
Telephone: 911 (ambulance, fire, police) 
If you do not have a Saudi SIM card, call 112 in an emergency.  
Contact your travel provider and insurer 
Contact your travel provider and your insurer if you’re involved in a serious incident or emergency abroad. They will tell you if they can help and what you need to do. 
Refunds and changes to travel 
For refunds or changes to travel, contact your travel provider. You may also be able to make a claim through insurance. However, insurers usually require you to talk to your travel provider first. 
Find out more about changing or cancelling travel plans, including: 
where to get advice if you’re in a dispute with a provider 
how to access previous versions of travel advice to support a claim 
Support from FCDO 
FCDO has guidance on staying safe and what to do if you need help or support abroad, including: 
finding English-speaking lawyers, funeral directors and translators and interpreters in Saudi Arabia  
dealing with a death in Saudi Arabia 
being arrested or imprisoned in Saudi Arabia 
getting help if you’re a victim of crime  
what to do if you’re in hospital  
if you’re affected by a crisis, such as a terrorist attack 
Contacting FCDO 
Follow and contact FCDO travel on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram. You can also sign up to get email notifications when this travel advice is updated. 
You can also contact FCDO online. 
Help abroad in an emergency 
If you’re in Saudi Arabia and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the British Embassy in Riyadh or your nearest consulate.  
FCDO in London 
You can call FCDO in London if you need urgent help because something has happened to a friend or relative abroad. 
Telephone: 020 7008 5000 (24 hours) 
Find out about call charges
Risk information for British companies 
The Overseas Business Risk service offers information and advice for British companies operating overseas on how to manage political, economic, and business security-related risks. 
