At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Coronavirus
The Saudi authorities have announced restrictions for travellers aimed at limiting the spread of COVID-19. The measures include:
All travellers arriving into the Kingdom are required to enter quarantine facilities for 14 days.
The temporary suspension of entry to the Kingdom for the purpose of Umrah and/or visiting the Prophet’s Mosque in Medina. The authorities also placed a temporary suspension on entry and prayer in the outer courtyards of the Two Holy Mosques in Mecca and Medina. This suspension applies to British Nationals.
The temporary suspension of international flights and sea routes. On 14 March, Saudi authorities announced the suspension of international flights from 1100 on Sunday 15 March. Restrictions have also been placed on some land border crossings. You should keep up to date with information from your airline or tour operator on the impact on any existing travel plans.
The temporary suspension of all domestic flights, buses, taxis and trains from Saturday 21 March. Travel is still allowed with app-based taxi services and private car. This temporary suspension does not apply to Saudi government authorities, health services, and commercial businesses.
Entry to the Kingdom of individuals with a tourist visa from significantly affected countries has also been temporarily suspended. Tourists who entered on an e-visa and are unable to leave the Kingdom due to flight suspensions can apply for a two week extension at a Jawazat (passports) office. There is a fee for this service. You should visit the office 3 days prior to the expiry of your visa. You can apply for a further two week extension, as necessary.
The suspension of the use of national identity cards (instead of passports) for travel to and from the Kingdom.
You should check guidance issued by the Saudi Ministry of Health and Ministry of Interior for any updates. You should contact your airline or tour operator before you travel. If you have any questions about travel restrictions to Saudi Arabia, you should contact the nearest Saudi Embassy or Visit Saudi.
There is an increase of cases in the region and you may be questioned about your travel history on arrival into the Kingdom. You should comply with any additional screening measures put in place by the authorities.
25 hospitals have been designated to treat patients with Covid-19. The Ministry of Health has a dedicated call centre (937) available 24/7 for residents and citizens to utilise in case of any enquiries regarding Covid-19.
On 15 March, Saudi authorities ordered the closure of commercial markets and malls, with the exception of pharmacies and food supply stores such as supermarkets and hypermarkets. This does not include the shops located on commercial streets, provided that they are not within commercial complexes. Restaurants and cafes are limiting their services to take away and delivery requests only. Gatherings in public places designated for recreation such as parks, beaches, resorts, camps and wild parks have been banned.
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
You can find more information about cases in Saudi Arabia on the TravelHealthPro country page.
Other health risks
Contagious diseases spread quickly, particularly during Hajj and Ramadan. Flu, colds and respiratory problems are very common. Bring basic medicines with you and consume adequate liquids and salts. During the period of Hajj and Umrah, pilgrims must have a valid certificate of vaccination against the ACWY strains of meningitis. See this NaTHNaC factsheet.
Cases of Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus in patients from Saudi Arabia have been reported to the World Health Organization. For the latest information and advice, see the website of the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Local medical care
Healthcare facilities in major cities are of a high standard. Most towns have a health centre or basic hospital. Serious cases may mean a transfer by ambulance or by air to hospitals in a major city that might be some distance away. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 997 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
