Saudi Arabia is a Muslim country in which Islamic law is strictly enforced. You should respect local traditions, customs, laws and religions at all times and be aware of your actions to ensure that they do not offend, especially during the holy month of Ramadan or if you intend to visit religious areas.
You can read more about living in Saudi Arabia here.
Ramadan
Ramadan is a holy month for Muslims. The dates vary by year and country. Ramadan in Saudi Arabia in 2024 is expected to take place between 10 March and 8 April. During this time, do not:
eat, drink, smoke or chew gum in public in the daytime, including in your car
play loud music or dance
swear in public
Get more advice when you arrive from your tour guide, hotel or business contacts.
You should also:
check opening hours of shops and restaurants
be aware that if hotels and restaurants are providing food or drink in fasting hours, they may separate you from Islamic guests, for example with screens
follow local dress codes – clothing that doesn’t meet local dress codes may cause more offence at this time
be aware that driving may be erratic, particularly when people are trying to get home at dusk
be patient and show tolerance
Rules of behaviour
Men and women are required to refrain from public displays of affection. Swearing and making rude gestures are considered offensive acts and violators can be subjected to the local laws. Penalties can vary from a fine to imprisonment and/or deported. For more information on rules of behaviour in Saudi Arabia, please refer to the official page of Visit Saudi.
Dress code
Local laws require men and women to dress modestly covering shoulders and knees in public, avoiding tight-fitting clothing or clothes with profane language or images. It is not mandatory for female travellers to wear the traditional robe or abaya. Information on important laws and etiquette around dress codes is available to visitors on the Visit Saudi website.
Both men and women are advised not to wear shorts or sleeveless tops, when going to government buildings, airports, health care facilities or malls. If you do not dress modestly, you may be asked to leave or be denied entry to these locations. Dressing modestly is important especially during the holy month of Ramadan.
Photography and media
Be aware of cultural sensitivities. Filming or photographing government buildings, military installations, and palaces is not allowed.  You should avoid photographing local people.
Posting material (including videos and photographs) online that is critical of the Saudi government, or appears to insult/ridicule/criticise the country’s culture and belief, the country, authorities, or its culture, may be considered a crime punishable under Saudi law.
If you wish to carry out media activity related to the production, transmission and/or distribution of printed, digital, audio, video and/or visual information, you will be required to obtain the appropriate permission from the General Commission for Audiovisual Media (GCAM) in advance. Failure to do so could result in imprisonment and a substantial fine.
Female drivers
As of June 2018, women are legally able to obtain a licence to drive a car, motorbikes and scooters. You should seek guidance from the local authorities on how to apply for a local licence.
LGBT / Sexual relations outside marriage
Homosexual or extra-marital sexual relations, including adultery, are illegal and can be subject to severe penalties. It’s also illegal to be transgender. Transgender people travelling to Saudi Arabia are likely to face significant difficulties and risks if this is discovered by the authorities. See our information and advice page for the LGBT community before you travel.
Living together whilst unmarried is prohibited. Any intimacy in public between men and women (including between teenagers) can lead to arrest. Penalties can include arrest and a potential court case where the judgement can include a fine, a custodial sentence and deportation once the sentence is complete. This is especially so where the behaviour has caused offence.
Due to the laws on sex outside marriage, if you become pregnant outside marriage, both you and your partner could face imprisonment and/or deportation. Doctors will ask for proof of marriage during antenatal checks. An unmarried woman who gives birth in Saudi Arabia may also encounter problems when registering the birth of the child in Saudi Arabia, and could be arrested, imprisoned or deported. To get a birth certificate from the Saudi authorities, you must provide a marriage certificate and the authorities may compare the date of the marriage against the estimated date of conception.
Importing goods and customs
Saudi law prohibits the importation of weapons, alcohol, narcotics, pork and pork products, pornographic materials, distillery equipment, re-treaded or used tyres, used clothing and certain sculptures.
Personal videos, books, and magazines may be subjected to scrutiny and be censored on arrival. In addition, electronic devices may be screened by customs officials on arrival and departure.
Special approval from the Saudi authorities’ on items such as agricultural seeds, live animals, books, periodicals, movies, and tapes; religious books and tapes; chemicals and harmful materials; pharmaceutical products; wireless equipment and radio-controlled model airplanes, and archaeological artefacts’ requires. For additional information, please visit The Saudi Standards, Metrology and Quality Organization (SASO)
Drugs and narcotics control
There is zero tolerance for drugs-related offences in Saudi Arabia. The penalties for the use of, trafficking, smuggling and possession of drugs (even residual amounts) are severe.
Punishment can include lengthy custodial sentences, heavy fines, deportation, and death penalty. For further information, please visit the Saudi Ministry of Interior website.
Some prescribed and over the counter medicines may be controlled substances in Saudi Arabia. If you need to bring in controlled/prescription medication, ensure you carry your official doctor’s prescription, hospital note or a letter from your GP, detailing the drug, the quantity prescribed and dosage. This note or letter should also be signed by the doctor / consultant and stamped by the hospital. A list of narcotic, psychotropic and controlled drugs where this rule applies, allowed quantities and documents to present can be found on the Saudi Food & Drug Authority (SFDA) procedures and controls of narcotics and psychotropic substances.
Alcohol
It is an offence to drink alcohol or be drunk in public. British nationals have been detained under this law, usually when they have come to the attention of the police on a related matter, such as disorderly or offensive behaviour. Penalties for the possession of, or trade in alcohol are severe. Both result in prison sentences. Do not arrive in Saudi Arabia under the influence of alcohol. Do not bring alcohol into Saudi Arabia.
Religion
The public practice of any form of religion other than Islam is illegal; as is an intention to convert others. However, the Saudi authorities accept the private practice of religions other than Islam, and you can bring a religious text into the country as long as it is for your personal use. Importing larger quantities than this can carry severe penalties.
Technical equipment
Binoculars should not be brought into Saudi Arabia and may be confiscated at the port of entry.
Equipment like satellite phones, listening or recording devices, radio transmitters, powerful cameras or binoculars, may require a licence for use in Saudi Arabia. Seek advice from the Royal Embassy of Saudi Arabia in London.
Carrying two passports
It is illegal to hold two passports in Saudi Arabia. The immigration authorities will confiscate second passports if they are discovered.
You should carry a photocopy of your passport for identification. Make sure you have included emergency contact details.
Legal system and due process
The Saudi legal system differs in many ways from the UK. Suspects can be held without charge and are not always allowed quick access to legal representation. The Saudi authorities have detained witnesses and victims of crimes. If you need consular assistance, British Embassy staff will try to visit you as soon as they are aware of the case, but in some instances, Embassy staff have not been permitted to do so immediately or have had access limited.
Financial crimes
Financial crimes, including fraud, bribery, embezzlement, giving somebody a cheque which bounces (including post-dated and ‘security cheques’) and non-payment of bills (for example hotel bills or car hire) can result in imprisonment and/or a fine and deportation in Saudi Arabia.
Bank accounts and other assets may be frozen. You may also be liable for cheques that you have signed on behalf of a company.
If you have unpaid loans or financial commitments you won’t be able to cancel your residence permit, and may find yourself subject to a travel ban which will prevent you from travelling or leaving the country. All debts should be settled in full before you leave the country. Ask your bank for a certificate to confirm you have no outstanding debt once you have cleared the balance.
Equally, you may find that there is a block on your government services, which prevents the renewal of your residents ID, issuing the re-entry/exit visa, or transferring to a new sponsor (employer) and any end of service benefits you may be entitled to could be used to offset the outstanding debt.
Commercial disputes
Anyone involved in a commercial dispute with a Saudi company or individual may be prevented from leaving the country pending resolution of the dispute. Government bodies often retain passports for official purposes; sponsors also sometimes retain passports, although this is illegal.
Deportation
If you are found guilty of committing an offence and are sentenced to over 3 months, the Saudi authorities can deport you. In some circumstances, you can also be deported for shorter sentences. This is regardless of whether the judgement included deportation. If you are employed in Saudi Arabia this will impact your employment and may affect your ability to return to Saudi Arabia in the future.
