!
Warning
FCDO advises against all travel to parts of Saudi Arabia.

This section has safety advice for regions of Saudi Arabia. It only covers regions where FCDO has specific advice.  
You should also read FCDO’s overall travel advice and safety and security advice.  
Saudi Arabia-Yemen border  
FCDO advises against:  
all travel to within 10km of the border with Yemen 
all but essential travel to areas between 10km and 80km from the border with Yemen 
Saudi Arabia has been leading air strikes against Yemen since 2015. While these have decreased, there are still military clashes along the border with military and civilian casualties. 
Yemen has launched missiles, drones and waterborne improvised explosive devices (IEDs) into Saudi Arabia. These are targeted at critical national infrastructure, including aviation and oil infrastructure. Most of these weapons are intercepted and destroyed by Saudi air defence systems.  
The authorities can temporarily close airports near the Saudi Arabia-Yemen border. Check with your airline before travelling to airports near the border. 
Attacks against critical national infrastructure are likely. Attacks have also been made on other locations in Saudi Arabia, including Riyadh and Jeddah, and along the Red Sea coast. There were 11 intercepted missile attacks over Riyadh since the first missile attack in November 2017, the most recent in December 2021. In a missile attack, you should: 
stay indoors 
monitor local media reports 
follow the advice of the local authorities 
Abha International Airport  
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to Abha International Airport in Asir Province.  
Since 2022, Abha International Airport has been the target of a number of attacks, resulting in multiple civilian injuries and one death.  
Qatif region  
British Embassy staff only travel to the Qatif region of Eastern Province in daylight hours due to ongoing security operations in that area.
Military zones and border posts  
The Saudi Tourism Authority has banned tourist trips to military zones and border posts. 
