Coronavirus guidance is being updated.
Read what you can and cannot do

There are still commercial options to return to the UK from Saudi Arabia.
If you live in the UK and are currently visiting Saudi Arabia, you’re strongly advised to return now by commercial means. Don’t risk getting stranded.
UK special charter flights will only operate for priority countries where commercial flights are not possible. You should not assume that these flights will become available in Saudi Arabia given commercial routes are still operating. Please do not contact the contracted travel management company if no flight is advertised here.
Flights
The following flights are now operating:
Riyadh to London Heathrow on:
Thursday 14 May at 10:55am
Sunday 17 May at 11:00am
Tuesday 19 May at 10:55am
Sunday 24 May at 11:00am
Jeddah to London Heathrow on:
Friday 15 May at 12:05pm
Saturday 16 May at 12:05pm
Jeddah to Manchester on:
Tuesday 19 May at 08:45am.
There is no need to register with the British Embassy in Riyadh. Tickets are available from the Saudia website: www.saudia.com. Please remember to select ‘One Way’ when booking.
Travelling to the airport
Only British nationals and residents who book a flight departing from Riyadh or Jeddah on Tuesday 19 May will receive help from the British Embassy with transport and permissions letters to help you reach the pick-up points. The British Embassy cannot help with transport or permissions letters for other flights, and passengers will be responsible for making their way to the airport without British Embassy assistance.
If you need transport from the Western Regions to Jeddah, please send your contact details and location to KSA.Info@fco.gov.uk with WESTERN REGIONS TRANSPORT in the title by 12pm on Thursday 14 May.
If you need transport from Dammam to Riyadh, please email KSA.Info@fco.gov.uk with DAMMAM TRANSPORT in the title by 12pm on Sunday 17 May.
If you are already in Riyadh or Jeddah, you will need to arrange your own transport to the airport using the commercial options available. If you require a permissions letter, please email KSA.Info@fco.gov.uk with PERMISSIONS LETTER in the title. We will send out permissions letters on Sunday 17 May.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the British Government. This should be a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Contact the British Embassy Riyadh for information on how to apply.
Future travel options
The British Embassy has been working closely with airlines and the Saudi authorities to arrange a regular commercial flight option to the UK as soon as possible. The next British Embassy-supported flight will be in June. This travel advice will be updated with further information once departure options are available. Sign up for email alerts and follow the British Embassy Riyadh on Twitter and Facebook.
We are working hard to ensure that there are more opportunities to purchase tickets for flights in the coming months. However, it is not possible to say when flights will depart. Depending on demand, it may not be possible for all Britons to buy tickets when they wish to travel. If you need to return to the UK, buy a ticket for the next available flight.
Your journey home
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
If you cannot leave Saudi Arabia at this time
See advice on staying in Saudi Arabia during coronavirus
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact the British Embassy Riyadh on +966 (0) 11 481 9100 or use the webforms for the British Embassy Riyadh or British Consulate Jeddah.
The British Embassy cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone. This page will be updated when departure options become available. To get the latest information, sign up for travel advice email alerts.
