!
Warning
FCDO advises against all travel to parts of Saudi Arabia.

Terrorism  
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad. 
Terrorism in Saudi Arabia  
Terrorists are very likely to try to carry out attacks in Saudi Arabia. 
Attacks could be indiscriminate, including in places visited by foreign nationals. Stay aware of your surroundings, keep up to date with local media reports and follow the advice of local authorities. 
Terrorists have threatened to carry out attacks in the Gulf region, including on: 
residential compounds 
military, oil, transport and aviation interests 
public places, including restaurants, hotels, beaches, shopping centres and mosques 
Be aware of your surroundings, particularly during high-profile events, and avoid large demonstrations.
Conflict affecting Lebanon
Ongoing hostilities between Israel and Lebanon could escalate quickly and pose risks for the wider region.
Monitor this travel advice and other media as the situation is changing fast. Follow and contact FCDO travel on X, Facebook and Instagram. You can also get email notifications when this travel advice is updated.
Read FCDO advice if you’re affected by a crisis abroad.
Political situation  
Public demonstrations are illegal. Avoid any protest or demonstration and follow the advice of local authorities.  
Crime 
The crime rate in Saudi Arabia is low, but there is petty crime. There have also been more serious crimes, including crimes against women. Take care when travelling outside towns and cities. 
Laws and cultural differences  
Saudi Arabia is a Muslim country and Islamic law is strictly enforced. Respect local traditions, customs, laws and religion so you do not cause offence. There may be serious penalties for doing something that might not be illegal in the UK.  
You should avoid: 
showing affection in public 
swearing and rude gestures 
playing loud music 
making critical political statements or behaving in ways the Saudi authorities assess disrupt the public order
Penalties include fines, imprisonment and deportation. See Visit Saudi for information on behaviour.
Personal ID 
You must always carry ID. You can get a fine or prison sentence if you do not have any. 
If you’re a tourist, carry a copy of your passport and visa.  
If you live in Saudi Arabia, carry your residency card (‘Iqama’). Police also accept an electronic version of the Iqama on the Tawakkalna app and Absher.  
Ramadan  
Ramadan is a holy month for Muslims. The dates vary by year and country. Ramadan in Saudi Arabia will start around 28 February in 2025 and last for 30 days. During this time, do not:  
eat, drink, smoke or chew gum in public in the daytime, including in your car  
play loud music or dance  
swear in public  
Get more advice when you arrive from your tour guide, hotel or business contacts.  
You should also:  
check opening hours of shops and restaurants  
be aware that if hotels and restaurants are providing food or drink in fasting hours, they may separate you from Islamic guests, for example with screens  
follow local dress codes – clothing that does not meet local dress codes may cause more offence at this time  
be patient and show tolerance 
Dress code 
Men and women must wear loose-fitting clothing that covers the elbow and below the knees.
Avoid clothing that:      
is tight-fitting
has profane slogans or images
has symbols or slogans that could be viewed as political and lead to arrest
Female travellers do not have to wear the traditional robe (‘abaya’) or cover their hair. See Visit Saudi for more information on dress codes. 
Religion 
It is illegal to practise any religion other than Islam. However, the Saudi authorities accept private practice of other religions.
It is illegal to try to convert people to another religion. You can bring other religious books for personal use. However, you may be prosecuted if you try to import large numbers of religious books. 
Alcohol laws and bans 
Do not bring alcohol into Saudi Arabia or arrive under the influence of alcohol. 
It is illegal to drink alcohol or be drunk in public. Police have arrested British nationals for disorderly or offensive behaviour when drinking. You can face severe penalties, including prison, for brewing, possessing or selling  alcohol.
Illegal drugs penalties 
There is zero tolerance for drug offences in Saudi Arabia, and the penalties are severe. If you’re arrested for drug offences, you may have a long period of detention before trial. You can get a prison sentence of up to 5 years and a fine of 30,000 Saudi riyals for possessing even small amounts. Drug dealing and smuggling can result in a death sentence.  
Sexual relations outside of marriage 
Sex outside of marriage and adultery are illegal, including for tourists. In the most serious circumstances (for example, those involving Saudi nationals) the penalties could include custodial sentences or deportation. There are special arrangements for visitors, and unmarried tourists may share hotel rooms. 
Pregnancy outside of marriage  
If you or your partner becomes pregnant outside marriage in Saudi Arabia, you could both face penalties including imprisonment and deportation. However, in practice, legal action is uncommon.  
Doctors may ask for proof of marriage during antenatal checks.  
To get a birth certificate from the Saudi authorities, you must provide a marriage certificate. The authorities may compare the date of the marriage against the estimated date of conception. 
If you’re an unmarried woman who gives birth in Saudi Arabia, you may have difficulties registering the birth of a child in Saudi Arabia. You could be arrested, imprisoned or deported.  
Filming, photography and other media restrictions  
It is illegal to film or photograph government buildings, military installations and palaces. 
If you produce, transmit or distribute printed, digital, audio or video information, you must get permission from the General Authority of Media Regulation (GCAM) in advance. If you do not, you could get a large fine and a prison sentence. 
Only photograph local people if you have their consent. 
Public statements and criticism
It is illegal to say publicly anything that the Saudi authorities deem disruptive to public order. Avoid making comments verbally or on social media on the topics below:
The King, Crown Prince or Royal Family
the Saudi government or authorities, including the police
Islam
the country’s culture, beliefs and ways of public life
issues that could be perceived as political, including wearing clothing with political slogans or carrying flags or banners, especially when performing Hajj and Umrah
the situation in Israel and the Occupied Palestinian Territories
Speaking publicly about these issues can be defined by the Saudi authorities as posing a threat to national security. Statements made on social media many years ago, or those published outside Saudi Arabia, may be taken into account. Punishment can include long custodial sentences. The legal processes around national security cases can be complex and slow. If you are detained, it may take some time for the Saudi authorities to grant permission for consular officials to visit you.
You’re likely to come under more scrutiny if you’re a British national who also: 
carries Saudi citizenship
has close Saudi relatives
Carrying 2 passports 
It is illegal to have 2 passports in your name in Saudi Arabia. Immigration authorities will take additional passports. You must leave Saudi Arabia using the passport you entered on. 
Legal system and due process 
The Saudi legal system differs from the UK, for example: 
suspects can be held without charge during an investigation 
suspects are not always allowed quick access to legal representation 
If you’re detained and need consular assistance, British Embassy staff will visit once they know about your case. In some cases, British Embassy staff have not been allowed to visit immediately or have had limited access. 
There is no legal aid in Saudi Arabia. You may want to hire a translator if you need to attend a criminal proceeding. Find a translator or interpreter in Saudi Arabia. 
Unpaid debts and other financial crimes 
You can get a fine, prison sentence or travel ban, or face deportation for financial crimes, including: 
writing a cheque which bounces (including post-dated and ‘security cheques’)  
not paying bills (for example hotel bills or car hire)  
fraud and bribery
The Saudi authorities can also freeze your bank account or other assets. You may be liable for cheques you signed on behalf of a company. 
The Saudi authorities could: 
prevent you from cancelling your residence permit
stop you leaving the country
block your government services
not allow you to renew your residency card, re-entry visa or exit permits
stop you transferring to a new employer (sponsor)
use your end-of-service benefits to pay outstanding debts
Travel bans 
The Saudi authorities may stop you from leaving the country  for:
unpaid debts
ongoing commercial, financial or labour disputes
legal cases
investigations
If you’re under a travel ban,  you cannot leave the country, even if you’re a British national or dual British-Saudi national. They can take years to resolve. If you’re banned from travel, get legal advice.
Government bodies often keep passports for official purposes. Employers (sponsors) may try to hold onto your passport, but this is illegal.
Deportation 
If you’re found guilty of an offence and sentenced to over 3 months in prison, the Saudi authorities can deport you. Sometimes the authorities deport people with shorter sentences, regardless of whether the judgement included deportation. If you’re employed in Saudi Arabia, deportation will impact your employment and may affect your ability to return to Saudi Arabia in the future. 
LGBT+ travellers 
Same-sex relations are illegal, although legal action is uncommon. All couples should be aware of local customs and avoid showing affection in public. 
Visit Saudi says all visitors are welcome, are not required to disclose their personal information and will have their right to privacy respected.  
Being transgender is not recognised in Saudi Arabia. Transgender people could also face difficulties with dress codes and access to medical care.  
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Transport risks  
Road travel  
If you’re planning to drive in Saudi Arabia, see information on driving abroad. 
You can use a UK photocard driving licence for the first 3 months after you arrive in Saudi Arabia. After that, you must apply for a local licence. Hire care companies may require an international driving permit (IDP).
Standards of driving are poor and there are a high number of serious accidents on the roads. You should: 
always wear seatbelts 
keep to major roads if possible 
travel in convoy and in daylight when travelling through desert areas 
Some cities have an automated traffic system. Anyone caught speeding or committing other traffic offences will be notified by text of their fine. Fines are recorded on the Absher system, which is linked to your passport, residency or ID card. You must pay any outstanding fines through the system before leaving the country. You can pay at the airport but only during Saudi office hours. 
Sea travel 
Vessels operating in the Gulf of Oman, Northern Arabian Sea, Gulf of Aden and Bab El Mandeb areas may be at increased risk of attack by pirates. See piracy and armed robbery at sea. 
Extreme weather and natural disasters 
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards.
Flooding  
Heavy rains from November to February can cause flooding. Use the internet to check  weather forecasts. In a flood, follow Civil Defence advice or call them on 998.
