This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Saudi Arabia as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Saudi Arabia to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Saudi Arabia
Authorities in Saudi Arabia have announced a phased easing of restrictions starting on 28 May. The Saudi authorities will keep this plan under review depending on the progress of the virus. You should monitor announcements issued by the Saudi Ministry of Health and Ministry of Interior for any updates.
Phase 1 (28-30 May)
Movement within and between all regions of the Kingdom in private cars allowed from 6 a.m. to 3 p.m. except in Makkah.
Economic and commercial activities will resume in retail and wholesale shops and malls but businesses where social distancing cannot be implemented - such as beauty salons, barber shops, sports clubs, health clubs, entertainment centers and cinemas - remain closed.
Phase 2 (31 May-20 June)
Movement allowed from 6 a.m. - 8 p.m. in all areas of the Kingdom, except in Makkah. Travel by all means of transport, including domestic flights, to all parts of the Kingdom is permitted.
All congregational prayers, including Friday prayers, to resume in all mosques across the Kingdom except in Makkah.
Restaurants and cafes serving food and beverages can reopen for dine-in services. Beauty salons, barber shops, sports clubs, health clubs, entertainment centers and cinemas remain closed.
Phase 3 (21 June)
Remaining coronavirus lockdown measures will end, except in Makkah (see below for details).
In Makkah
Phase 1 measures will be implemented between 31 May-20 June; Phase 2 will begin on June 21. Friday prayers and all congregational prayers will continue to be held in the Grand Mosque, only to be attended by Imams and employees.
Visas
Visit Saudi has announced that the period of international flight suspension shall not count towards the overall duration of any issued tourist visa and its associated insurance policy. This applies to visa holders who have not yet used their tourist visas, as well as those who were in the country at the time of the suspension.
Health
Twenty-five hospitals have been designated to treat patients with coronavirus. The Ministry of Health has a dedicated call centre (937) available 24/7 for residents and citizens to utilise in case of any enquiries regarding coronavirus.
For contact details for doctors, visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Saudi Arabia.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Saudi Arabia, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
You should check guidance issued by the Saudi Ministry of Health and Ministry of Interior for any updates.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
