The Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) advises against all travel to within 10km of the border with Yemen
The FCDO advises against all but essential travel to:
areas between 10km and 80km from the border with Yemen
Abha International Airport and its grounds, located in Asir province
If you’re currently in an area where the FCDO advise against all but essential travel, you should consider whether you have an essential reason to remain. If you don’t, you should leave the area.
Before you travel, check the ‘Entry requirements’ section for Saudi Arabia’s current entry restrictions and requirements. These may change with little warning. Monitor this advice for the latest updates and stay in contact with your travel provider.
If you plan to pass through another country to return to the UK, check the travel advice for the country you’re transiting.
It is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCDO’s guidance on foreign travel insurance.
Terrorists are very likely to try to carry out attacks in Saudi Arabia. Attacks can target foreign nationals and tourist sites.
Be especially vigilant during periods of religious significance (including the holy month of Ramadan) and public holidays; terrorist groups sometimes call for attacks at these times. Terrorists previously carried out several attacks in Saudi Arabia during Ramadan in 2016.
Daesh (formerly referred to as ISIL) claimed responsibility for an attack on 11 November 2020 which targeted a ceremony in Jeddah, commemorating the end of World War I, using an explosive device. On 11 November 2019, a terrorist carried out a knife attack on artists performing on stage during Riyadh Season Festival, injuring four people. You should be vigilant and follow the advice of the local authorities. See Terrorism.
There’s a heightened risk of terrorism against aviation interests. Additional security measures have been in place on flights departing from Saudi Arabia to the UK since March 2017. You should co-operate fully with security officials. Restrictions on carrying large electronic devices in the aircraft cabin on these flights have now been lifted. For more information and advice about what items you can take into the cabin on your flight from Saudi Arabia to the UK, contact your airline or travel company.
Following the attack on the coalition base at Taji in Iraq on 11 March 2020, and subsequent US airstrikes, tensions may be raised across the region. There is a possibility of an increased threat against Western interests, including against UK citizens. You should remain vigilant and keep up to date with the latest developments, including via the media and this travel advice.
Saudi Arabia has been leading coalition air strikes in Yemen since 2015, following a request for support from President Hadi to deter continued Houthi aggression. Clashes along the Saudi-Yemeni border continue, resulting in both military and civilian casualties.
Missiles, Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (drones) and water borne IEDs continue to be launched against Saudi Arabia, targeting critical national infrastructure, including aviation interests and oil infrastructure. Many of these have been intercepted and destroyed by Saudi air defence systems.
Attacks against critical national infrastructure are likely. Energy facilities in the Kingdom have been targeted. Abha International Airport (Asir province) has been the target of a number of attacks, resulting in injury to civilians and the death of one.
Attacks may be made on other locations in Saudi Arabia, including Riyadh and Jeddah, and along the Red Sea coast. There have been 11 intercepted missile attacks over Riyadh since the first missile attack on 4 November 2017, the most recent on 6 December 2021. In the event of a missile attack, you should stay indoors, monitor local media reports and follow the advice of the local authorities. See Local travel - Saudi Arabia-Yemen border.
All visitors, including pilgrims, need a visa to enter Saudi Arabia. See Visas.
All points of entry between Saudi Arabia and Qatar were reopened on 4 January 2021. If you have a query relating to travel plans, contact your airline or tour operator.
Public demonstrations are illegal in Saudi Arabia. Follow local media and be alert to local and regional developments which might trigger public disturbances. Despite warnings issued by the authorities, demonstrations do take place from time to time. You should avoid protests or demonstrations. See Political situation.
Due to security operations within the Qatif region of Eastern Province, British Embassy staff have been advised to travel within the region in daylight hours only. See Local travel.
British nationals resident in Saudi Arabia can apply to perform Umrah through the Tawakkalna app. British nationals resident outside of Saudi Arabia can apply to perform Umrah through the official platform Nusuk. Details of the process can be found on the official Ministry of Hajj Twitter page. The next Hajj will begin in June 2023. For more information and advice, see the Pilgrimage and Health sections.
Consular support is severely limited in parts of Saudi Arabia where we advise against travel, and limited in the areas we advise against all but essential travel. If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.
Cases of Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV) in patients from Saudi Arabia continue to be reported to the World Health Organization. For the latest information and advice, see the website of the National Travel Health Network and Centre.
Qatar World Cup 2022
The FIFA World Cup will take place in Qatar from 20 November to 18 December 2022.
If you are attending the tournament, you should check the travel advice in full for each country you plan to visit or transit through. Rules and requirements will vary from country to country. You should check Travel Advice for Qatar and sign up to receive email alerts whenever Travel Advice for Qatar changes. You can also monitor the official Qatar World Cup 2022, FIFA websites and the Saudi ‘Here For You’ platform for more information. If you are travelling from Saudi Arabia to Qatar during the World Cup period, you must ensure you have a Hayya Card (Qatar World Cup Fan ID). See Qatar World Cup 2022 for more information.
Multiple-entry visa for Hayya Card holders
Hayya Card holders can apply for a free multi-entry visa that allows them to enter and stay in Saudi Arabia for up to 60 days, beginning 10 days before the tournament kicks off. You must purchase medical insurance from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Visa platform to obtain the free multi-entry visa. Hayya Card holders can also invite and bring three additional travel companions with them into Saudi Arabia under the ‘Hayya With Me (1+3)’ arrangement. The three companions must also hold a valid Hayya Card to enjoy a free multi-entry visa. Please refer to the Visit Saudi website for more details.
You should also read Travel Advice for Saudi Arabia in full. Local laws and customs in Saudi Arabia can vary significantly from those in the UK, including on issues like drugs, alcohol and social media use. Please inform yourself before you travel. Ensure you have appropriate travel insurance, and follow the latest COVID-19 requirements, before travelling to Saudi Arabia, and on to Qatar.
Driving to Qatar
If you are planning to drive to Qatar, please be aware of the risks in doing so. Travelling by road across the Gulf can be arduous with limited fuel and rest stops. You will need to be patient and allow plenty of time for your journey.
There will be specific procedures in place to enter Qatar through the Abu Samra Border Crossing during the tournament, including restrictions on vehicle entry. See FIFA World Cup Qatar 2022 for more information.
Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are not valid for entry into Saudi Arabia or for transiting through Saudi Arabia. However, ETDs are accepted on final exit from Saudi Arabia.
