!
Warning
FCDO advises against all travel to parts of Saudi Arabia.

Your travel insurance could be invalidated if you travel against advice from the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO).
Areas where FCDO advises against travel  
Saudi Arabia-Yemen border  
FCDO advises against:  
all travel to within 10km of the border with Yemen 
all but essential travel to areas between 10km and 80km from the border with Yemen 
Find out more about why FCDO advises against travel.
Regional risks
Hostilities in the region and between Israel and Iran have the potential to deteriorate further, quickly and without warning. On 22 June the US launched military strikes against Iranian nuclear facilities and on 23 June Iran launched military strikes against a US military base in Qatar.
There is a possibility of travel disruption, including short-notice airspace closures, delayed and cancelled flights, and other unanticipated travel impacts.
As a precautionary measure we encourage you to:
read the FCDO’s advice on if you’re affected by a crisis abroad
monitor local and international media for the latest information
be vigilant and follow the instructions of local authorities
take shelter and stay away from windows if instructed. If you require urgent assistance call 911
avoid military or security facilities
check with relevant airlines for the latest updates before travelling
Before you travel 
No travel can be guaranteed safe. Read all the advice in this guide and see support for British nationals abroad for information about specific travel topics. 
Travel insurance 
If you choose to travel, research your destinations and get appropriate travel insurance. Insurance should cover your itinerary, planned activities and expenses in an emergency.
About FCDO travel advice
The Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) provides advice about risks of travel to help you make informed decisions. Find out more about FCDO travel advice.
Get travel advice updates
Sign up to get email notifications when this travel advice is updated.
Follow FCDO:   
travel advice on X
travel advice on Facebook
Travel Aware on Instagram
