Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Rwanda on the TravelHealthPro website.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
The Government of Rwanda continues to encourage the use of voluntary COVID-19 testing facilities.
International travel
Kigali Airport is open. Commercial flights to and from Rwanda are running but have not yet returned to full schedules. Check with your travel company / airline for the latest information.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Rwanda.
Travel in Rwanda
For details on current measures, including local movement restrictions, read the latest cabinet communique published on the website of the Prime Minister’s office. The Prime Minister’s office publishes communiques on their website, normally every two weeks.
From 23 June, the following measures will be in place across Rwanda, and will be reviewed after two weeks:
Movements are prohibited between 7pm and 4am
Movements between Kigali and other provinces and between districts across the country are prohibited except for medical reasons and other essential services. However vehicles transporting goods will continue to operate with no more than two people on board.
Additionally, movement in some sectors of Nyagatare, Gicumbi and Burera districts is permitted only between 4am and 7pm. You should check with local authorities for more information.
From 1 June, the following measures will be in place across the remaining parts of Rwanda, and reviewed after one month:
Movements are prohibited between 10pm and 4am
Movements are prohibited between 7pm and 4am in Karongi district
Movements between Kigali and other provinces and between districts of the country will continue
All tourists are required to take a PCR test 72 hours prior to visiting Rwanda’s national parks, apart from Akagera National Park, at their own cost. Tests can be booked by appointment via reservations@rdb.rwor +250 (0)788313800. Tourists visiting Akagera National Park and other tourist destinations are required to take a rapid antigen test, which are available at numerous walk-in clinics in Kigali for RWF 10,000. Tourists without a negative test result will not be admitted to the national parks.
Accommodation
Accommodation is open and available for bookings.
Public places and services
Health measures must be complied with, including physical distancing, wearing of face masks and hand hygiene. Penalties will be applied for non-compliance.
You should check the latest cabinet communique published on the website of the Prime Minister’s office for more details on measures in place.
From 23 June, the following measures will be in place across Rwanda, and will be reviewed after two weeks:
Public transport will continue to operate but should not exceed 50% capacity. Bus operators will ensure passengers maintain social distancing and only passengers with masks will be allowed on board.
Motos and bicycles will continue to carry passengers but must comply with COVID-19 health measures.
Physical meetings will continue and must not exceed 30% of venue capacity. Negative COVID-19 test results will be required for all participants.
All social gatherings including celebrations of all kinds are prohibited both in public and in private settings.
Traditional, civil and religious weddings are suspended.
Public offices will continue with essential staff at no more than 15% of all employees while other employees continue working from home on a rotational basis
Private businesses will continue with essential staff at no more than 50% capacity while other employees continue working from home on a rotational basis. Markets and malls will continue for essential vendors and must not exceed 50% of registered traders.
All businesses must close by 6pm.
All schools (public and private), including universities, shall resume.
Restaurants and cafés shall operate at a 30% occupancy limit and shall receive clients until 6pm. Negative COVID-19 test results will be required for designated restaurants. The Rwanda Development Board (RDB) will provide detailed guidelines.
All bars will remain closed.
Individual and non-contact outdoor sports activities will continue and must comply with health prevention measures. Gyms will continue to operate at 15% of venue capacity and clients must present negative COVID-19 test results. The Ministry of Sports will provide detailed guidelines.
All swimming pools and spas will remain closed except for those at hotels hosting tested guests.
Tourism activity will continue in strict adherence with COVID-19 health guidelines. This includes hotels, tour operators and transport services facilitating guests. The Rwanda Development Board (RDB) will provide detailed guidelines.
Places of worship adhering to health guidelines will continue to operate at 30% capacity.
Attendance at a wake/vigil (Ikiriyo) should not exceed 10 persons at any one time. Funeral gatherings should not exceed 30 persons.
Gaming operators shall resume activities gradually, upon fulfilling COVID-19 preventive measures. The Ministry of Trade and Industry will provide details guidelines.
Healthcare
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Rwanda.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Rwanda
Wherever possible British nationals should aim to be vaccinated in the country where they live. As further information is available about the national vaccination programme, this page will be updated. Sign up to get email notifications.
British nationals resident in Rwanda are eligible for the vaccine rollout according to the priority groups identified by the Ministry of Health. You should monitor information provided by the Rwanda Biomedical Centre.
The Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) is the UK authority responsible for assessing the safety, quality and efficacy of vaccines. It has authorised the Pfizer/BioNTech, Oxford/AstraZeneca and Moderna vaccines for temporary supply and use in the UK. Find out more about MHRA approval for these vaccines.
British nationals living overseas should seek medical advice from their local healthcare provider in the country where they reside. Information about vaccines used in other national programmes, including regulatory status, should be available from the local authorities. This list of Stringent Regulatory Authorities recognised by the World Health Organisation may also be a useful source of additional information. Find out more about COVID-19 vaccines on the World Health Organisation COVID-19 vaccines page.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements. You should contact local authorities for information on testing facilities. A test can be booked on the Government of Rwanda online platform.
Further information
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
