This page has information on travelling to Rwanda. Check what you must do to return to the UK.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport from the UK, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Rwanda set and enforce entry rules.
All travellers
The Government of Rwanda has published updated guidance for passengers arriving in and departing from Rwanda.
Screening procedures are in place for coronavirus at all entry points.
All travelers arriving in Rwanda must have a negative COVID-19 certificate. The only accepted test is a SARS-CoV 2 Real Time Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) performed within 72 hours prior to departure (meaning travelers must be tested and get results within 3 days of their first flight). Other tests, such as Rapid Diagnostics Tests (RDTs), are not accepted. COVID-19 tests are not mandatory for accompanied children under 5 years. You should not use the NHS testing service to get a test in order to facilitate your travel to another country. You should arrange to take a private test.
All travelers arriving in Rwanda must complete the passenger locator form and upload the COVID-19 test certificate before heading to the airport.
COVID-19 RT-PCR and Antigen Rapid Tests will be taken upon arrival at the traveler’s own cost and are mandatory. Travelers must self-isolate until they get negative PCR test results taken on arrival.
The cost of COVID-19 tests at the airport is now $65.Payment instructions can be found on the passenger locator form. Payment on arrival via credit card is accepted.
You should monitor the website of the office of the Prime Minister of Rwanda and the Twitter account of the Office of the Prime Minister for further updates.
You will need a visa to enter or travel through Rwanda as a visitor.
See Visas section below for more information on how to obtain a visa.
If you’re fully vaccinated
Entry requirements for Rwanda are the same for all travellers, regardless of COVID-19 vaccination status.
See All travellers section.
Proof of vaccination status
You do not need to present proof that you have been fully vaccinated to enter Rwanda. However incoming travelers eligible for COVID-19 vaccinations (aged 12 years and above) are encouraged to be fully vaccinated before their travel.
If you’re not fully vaccinated
Entry requirements for Rwanda are the same for all travellers, regardless of COVID-19 vaccination status.
See All travellers section.
If you’ve had COVID-19 in the past year
Entry requirements for Rwanda are the same for all travellers, regardless if you’ve had COVID-19 in the past year.
See All travellers section.
Children and young people
Incoming travelers eligible for COVID-19 vaccinations (aged 12 years and above) are encouraged to be fully vaccinated before their travel.
COVID-19 tests are not mandatory for entry for accompanied children under 5 years.
If you’re transiting through Rwanda
All travelers arriving or transiting in Rwanda must complete the passenger locator form and upload the COVID-19 PCR test certificate before heading to the airport.
Transiting/connecting travelers who are not leaving the airport for less than 12 hours will be screened upon entry and are not required to take a second test. This is not applicable for transiting passengers by land borders, in that case, passengers will be tested using RT-PCR and rapid tests on arrival at land borders. PCR test results will be fast tracked.
Exemptions
There are no exemptions to Rwanda’s entry requirements.
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
Passport validity
Your passport should be valid for at least 6 months from the date of entry into Rwanda. You’ll need one blank page on your passport for entry stamps.
Check with your travel provider to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Visas
You need a visa to enter Rwanda. Thirty-day tourist visas are free and available on arrival for citizens of member states of the Commonwealth (including the UK), as well as for those of the African Union and the Francophonie.
You can also choose to get a visa in advance at any Rwandan diplomatic mission or online. Further information about visa requirements is available from the Rwandan High Commission.
If you’re planning to apply for resident/business or missionary multiple entry visas on entry to Rwanda you will need to get UK police clearance before you travel. You can find details of how to do this on the ACRO Criminal Records Office website. This usually takes a minimum of 10 working days to process.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are accepted for entry, airside transit and exit from Rwanda. If you’re travelling into Rwanda on an ETD, you’ll be expected to provide Rwandan Immigration with a reason for the use of an ETD, e.g. proof of residency. If you’re seeking to use a two-way ETD, should clear this with Rwandan Immigration before you travel.
Returning to the UK
The Government of Rwanda has published updated guidance for passengers arriving in and departing from Rwanda.
All travellers departing from Rwanda must test negative for COVID-19. The only accepted test is a SARS-CoV 2 Real Time Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) performed within 72 hours before departure performed by the Rwanda Biomedical Center/National Reference Laboratory, Provincial or District Hospitals. Other tests, such as Rapid Diagnostics Tests (RDTs), are not accepted for international travellers. A COVID-19 Test is not mandatory for accompanied children under 5 years. Travelers are advised to check with airlines about the COVID-19 requirements of the final destination and/or transit countries and plan for their RT-PCR test accordingly.
Check what you must do to return to the UK.
