At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Coronavirus
A case of coronavirus (COVID-19) has been confirmed in Rwanda. The Rwandan authorities have introduced a number of measures to limit the spread of the virus.
The Rwandan government has put in place screening procedures for coronavirus (and Ebola) at all entry points, including land borders and airports. Anyone arriving from a country affected by coronavirus and displaying a symptom associated with the virus will be placed in isolation and tested. If the results are positive then people will be treated in a Government of Rwanda treatment centre. If tested negative, travellers will be required to observe 14 days self-isolation, monitored by the Ministry of Health.
Exit screening is in place for all departing travellers. Any travellers exhibiting a symptom associated with coronavirus will be prevented from leaving the country and will be moved to isolation for testing. If the results are positive then people will be treated in a Government of Rwanda treatment centre.
The Government of Rwanda has issued information on the measures. You should comply with any additional screening measures put in place by the authorities.
If you need further information about entry requirements, contact the local immigration authorities or the nearest Rwanda High Commission. You should also check with your airline or travel company for the latest information.
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
Medical treatment
According to Rwandan law, any person on Rwandan territory must have health insurance.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 112 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
Only limited medical facilities are available in Rwanda. In the event of serious accident or illness evacuation by air ambulance to Kenya or South Africa may be required. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation.
Ebola
On 17 July 2019, the World Health Organisation declared a Public Health Emergency of International Concern (PHEIC) following an outbreak of the Ebola virus in eastern Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC). Cases have been confirmed in Goma, close to the DRC-Rwanda border, since 14 July 2019. New cases continue to be reported across the affected areas including the provinces of Ituri, North Kivu and South Kivu.
On 1 August 2019, border restrictions were temporarily put in place for those travelling between Goma and Rwanda, these have since been lifted but the potential for further disruption remains.
The Rwandan government has put in place screening procedures for Ebola at all entry points, including land borders and at airports. Rwanda Ministry of Health policies for travellers wishing to enter Rwanda from Ebola-affected areas of DRC, including health care workers and humanitarian volunteers, remain in place. The policy mandates that you should provide advance notice of your intention to travel to Rwanda to the Rwandan Ministry of Health, and you will need to comply with quarantine procedures for a period of 21 days before onward travel within or through Rwanda is permitted.
On 11 June 2019, the Ugandan Ministry of Health confirmed an outbreak of Ebola in Kasese district, western Uganda.
The latest updates can be found on the World Health Organisation website.
Public Health England has updated its guidance for humanitarian or healthcare workers travelling to countries at risk of Ebola.
Other health risks
There is a high risk of malaria in all areas of Rwanda, including Kigali.
