!
Warning
FCDO advises against all travel to parts of Rwanda.

You should also read FCDO’s overall travel advice and safety and security advice.
Rwanda-DRC border
FCDO advises against all travel to Rubavu District, including Gisenyi town and the border crossing point of Gisenyi-Goma due to current instability.
Your travel insurance could be invalidated if you travel to an area where FCDO advises against travel.
Risks associated with increased fighting in Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) may affect people on the Rwandan side of the border, due to the closeness of the fighting.  On 27 January, there were reports of gunfire and artillery fire in Gisenyi. The security situation in DRC near to Rwanda’s border is unstable, (see Democratic Republic of the Congo travel advice - GOV.UK for more information). Keep up to date with developments through your tour operator or local media.
The border crossings between Rwanda and DRC at Gisenyi-Goma and other border crossing points have closed at short notice in recent years. They could close at short notice due to the current instability. Be aware of the impact that short-notice border closures could have on any travel plans in the region.
Rwanda-Burundi border
The border with Burundi has been closed since January 2024. The situation in Burundi remains unstable. Tensions along the Rwanda-Burundi border remain high. Both sides have accused the other of cross-border raids targeting local inhabitants.
Rwanda-Uganda border
Border crossings Uganda have temporarily closed at short notice in recent years. Be aware of the impact that short-notice border closures could have on any travel plans in the region.
Cross-border additional risks
If you’re travelling near the DRC or Burundi borders, be aware of the risk of cross-border attacks and government security operations.
In recent years, armed incursions have occurred into south-west Rwanda:
on 18 June 2023, 2 people were killed and 6 were injured when suspected militants opened fire on a public passenger bus on Nyamagabe-Rusizi road, in Nyungwe Forest, Nyamgabe District
on 17 June 2023, a Congolese soldier crossed into Rwanda at Gisenyi and fired on civilians and Rwandan security personnel near the border, injuring 2 Rwandan police officers – the soldier was shot dead
in 2022, artillery fire from the DRC hit Rwandan territory, close to the border in Kinigi sector of Musanze District in the north-west
