Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

There are currently extremely limited commercial options available to return to the UK from Rwanda. The Rwandan authorities have introduced a number of measures to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19), including suspending all flights to and from Kigali International Airport until 30 April (which could be extended). Emergency Flights are the only exceptions. All land borders are also closed.
What to do
You should urgently contact your airline or tour operator if you are due to travel to or from Rwanda.
If you wish to leave Rwanda, please get in touch with the British High Commission via our Kigali Enquiries mailbox. If we have your details we can inform you are soon as flights become available.
If you cannot leave Rwanda at this time, you should:
Follow the advice of local authorities, including local measures to help minimise your risk of exposure to coronavirus
Find accommodation that’s suitable for your needs.
Keep in regular contact with family and friends at home, so they know you are safe and well
Future travel options
The British High Commission is issuing regular updates on Twitter and Facebook with the latest available information on departure options from Rwanda. This travel advice will be updated when departure options become available.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British High Commission on +250 252 556 000.
The High Commission cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone. To get the latest information, sign up for travel advice email alerts.
Arrival in the UK
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Further information
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
