The FCDO advises against all but essential travel to:
the whole of Rwanda based on the current assessment of COVID-19 risks.
From 1pm on 29 January, visitors who have been in or transited through Rwanda in the previous 10 days cannot enter the UK. British and Irish nationals, and third country nationals with residence rights in the UK arriving in England from Rwanda will be required to quarantine in a hotel. Different requirements apply for arrivals into Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland.
From 1 January onwards people with residence rights include: holders of Indefinite Leave to Remain; holders of existing leave to enter or remain (i.e those with biometric Residence permits) or an entry clearance/visa that grants such leave e.g. students, workers, etc (excluding visit visas); holders of EU Settlement Scheme (“EUSS”) leave; those who have rights of entry under the Withdrawal Agreements (including returning residents with a right of residence under the EEA Regulations and EEA frontier workers); family members of EEA nationals with rights under the Withdrawal Agreement.
Travel to Rwanda is subject to entry restrictions
Kigali International Airport is open. Land borders remain closed except to returning Rwandan citizens and legal residents
Arriving passengers at Kigali International airport must present a negative COVID-19 PCR test taken within 72 hours prior to first departure. If you are entering Rwanda you will need to take a PCR test on arrival. If you are transiting Rwanda you may or may not need to take a test, depending on the length of transit. You should follow the Rwandan Government’s guidance for arriving into and departing from Rwanda and comply with health guidelines
Departing passengers must present a negative PCR test before departure, taken within 72 hours of travel. You must wait 48 hours for the results of your PCR test from the time of sample collection.
See Entry requirements for more information before you plan to travel
Preparing for your return journey to the UK
If you’re returning to the UK from overseas, you will need to:
provide your journey and contact details before you travel.
If your return journey to the UK transits another country, you should check whether it is subject to a travel ban or any other additional requirements. If so, contact your travel provider.
If you’re travelling to Rwanda during coronavirus, see the Coronavirus section for more information.
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCDO’s guidance on foreign travel insurance.
For information about COVID-19 vaccines, see the Coronavirus page.
Rwanda is generally safe and crime levels are relatively low, but street crime does occur. There have been reports of an increase in burglary, theft and mugging in Kigali in recent months. You should take precautions with valuables and remain vigilant. See Crime
The security situation near the border with the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and Burundi remains unstable, and there have been armed attacks in Rwanda’s Nyungwe Forest and Volcanoes National Parks Parks and neighbouring areas. If you’re travelling near the DRC or Burundi borders, you should be aware of the risk of attacks and Government of Rwanda security operations. Exercise caution and keep up to date with developments on the current situation, including via your tour operator, the local media and this travel advice. See Local travel
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Rwanda, attacks can’t be ruled out. See Terrorism
