!
Warning
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to parts of Rwanda.

Your travel insurance could be invalidated if you travel against advice from the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO).
Areas where FCDO advises against all but essential travel
Rubavu District
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to the parts of Rubavu District which are north-west of the NR2 road west of the NR11 road, leading from Nyamyumba to Mukamira. This includes the town of Gisenyi and the border crossing point at Gisenyi-Goma.
Rusizi District
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to the parts of Rusizi District which are within 10km of the border with the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), including the Rwandan islands in Lake Kivu and Kamembe Airport.
Rwanda-DRC border
Risks associated with the proximity of potential fighting in Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) may affect people on the Rwandan side of the border, including Rubavu and Rusizi districts, Volcanoes National Park, Nyungwe Forest and Lake Kivu. International borders are often not well marked in remote areas, and you could unknowingly cross into DRC. You may see a presence of military personnel on both sides of the border. On 27 January, there were reports of gunfire and artillery fire in Gisenyi.
See Democratic Republic of the Congo’s travel advice for more information. Keep up to date with developments through local media.
The border crossings between Rwanda and DRC at Gisenyi-Goma could close at short notice.
UCI Road World Cycling Championships
Rwanda is hosting the UCI Road World Cycling Championships from 21-28 September in Kigali. Several major roads will be closed between 7am and 6pm for the race. Large crowds will gather and watch the event each day. Pedestrian crossings will be available. Alternative routes to hospitals, hotels and the airport are open, but may take longer than usual. Monitor local news and official sources of information for the latest updates, including UCI.
Before you travel
No travel can be guaranteed safe. Read all the advice in this guide. You may also find it helpful to: 
see general advice for women travellers
read our guide on disability and travel abroad
see general advice for LGBT+ travellers
read about safety for solo and independent travel
see advice on volunteering and adventure travel abroad
Travel insurance
If you choose to travel, research your destinations and get appropriate travel insurance. Insurance should cover your itinerary, planned activities and expenses in an emergency.
About FCDO travel advice
The Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) provides advice about risks of travel to help you make informed decisions. Find out more about FCDO travel advice.
Get travel advice updates
Sign up to get email notifications when this travel advice is updated.
Follow FCDO:   
travel advice on X
travel advice on Facebook
Travel Aware on Instagram
