Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Barbados on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Barbados.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements. Information about the pre-departure tests which Barbados provides can be found in the Barbados Travel Protocols. Further information can be obtained by phoning (+1246) 628 4150 or emailing travelprotocols@visitbarbados.org.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you will be transferred to the Government’s quarantine facility, Harrison’s Point, for assessment. You can stay there for no cost until you have recovered. Conditions at the government quarantine facilities are generally basic and not necessarily equivalent to a tourist hotel with the associated services. Alternatively, you have the option of requesting to self-isolate at your own expense at a government-approved isolation hotel, villa or property until you have recovered. Strict rules are in place for this self-isolation. The option to self-isolate in an approved hotel, villa or property is not a right – the decision will be made by healthcare professionals. Further information can be found in the Barbados Travel Protocols.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Barbados
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Barbados to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19). Details of these measures can be found at the Barbados Government Information Service website and the Visit Barbados Travel Protocols.
All persons arriving in Barbados are required to wear face masks at all times whilst on airport grounds. Persons will also have their temperature taken.
In moving around Barbados, follow social distancing protocols.
Masks are mandatory in all public spaces, including out-of-doors unless you are exercising. You can expect to have your temperature taken and you may be asked to supply your contact details when entering some premises. Regular washing of hands is encouraged and you can expect to be asked to clean your hands using hand sanitizer on entering a building.
You may be required to quarantine and/or undergo a further COVID-19 test at any stage of your stay if the Barbados authorities deem that you have been in close contact with a COVID-19 positive individual or mandatory monitoring highlights potential COVID-19 symptoms.
You should follow the Barbados Government Information Service on Facebook or on their website and monitor the Barbados Travel Protocols for further details as plans are subject to change at short notice.
The Barbadian authorities will seek to prosecute people who breach COVID-19 protocols, including those who break quarantine protocols, which may result in a fine and/or prison sentence.
The Government’s COVID protocols are subject to regular change. There is currently an 11pm to 5am curfew in place. Indoor parties are prohibited. There are restrictions on size of gatherings outdoors.
Accommodation
Not all hotels and private rentals have re-opened or fully re-opened to the public. If making a booking, you should check whether there are any coronavirus restrictions or protocols to observe.
Healthcare in Barbados
The Barbados Ministry of Health and Wellness has a coronavirus hotline staffed by public health officers 24 hours a day and can be contacted on +1 246 536 4500.
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Barbados.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Barbados
We will update this page when the Government Barbados announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Barbados national vaccination programme started in March 2021 and is using the AstraZeneca, Pfizer and Sinopharm vaccines. The Government of Barbados has stated that British nationals resident in Barbados are eligible for vaccination if they choose to join the programme. Further information on the vaccination programme is available on the Government of Barbados Ministry of Health vaccine website.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in Barbados, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
