This page has information on travelling to Barbados. Check what you must do to return to the UK.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport from the UK, for the most common types of travel.
All travellers
Entry to Barbados
Barbados has published travel protocols setting out its entry requirements in relation to COVID-19. See the Visit Barbados website for full details. You should read these before your departure and monitor the pages on a regular basis as the requirements may change at short notice. Masks should be worn at all times during your travel to Barbados and your passage through the airport. Social distancing and hygiene protocols are in place.
If you’re fully vaccinated
Fully vaccinated people (2 doses administered more than 14 days prior to arrival or single dose where only one dose administered) are not required to complete a pre-arrival COVID-19 test and will not be subject to testing* or quarantine on arrival. Once you have completed a health check and your documentation (proof of vaccination status) has been validated, you will be free to move around Barbados unhindered.
*A number of fully vaccinated arrivals will be randomly chosen to have a rapid antigen test. There is no requirement to quarantine, as the result will be made available very quickly. See the Barbados Travel Protocols for further details.
Details of what the Barbadian authorities will accept as proof of vaccination can be found in the Barbados Travel Protocols. If you are unable to provide sufficient proof that you have been vaccinated then you will be treated as if you are unvaccinated.
Proof of vaccination status
Barbados will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 recovery and vaccination record and proof of COVID-19 vaccination issued in the Crown Dependencies. Your final vaccine dose must have been administered at least 14 days prior to travel. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
If you’re not fully vaccinated
Unvaccinated travellers from the UK must present on arrival either:
a valid RT-PCR COVID-19 negative test result taken no more than 3 days in advance of your flight’s arrival. The test can be taken at any time during the day 3 days prior to the date of your arrival in Barbados. (For example, if your flight arrives at 10pm on Saturday, you can take a test at any time on the Wednesday prior to this)
a valid Rapid PCR COVID-19 negative test result taken one day before arrival in Barbados
a valid Rapid Antigen negative test result taken one day before arrival in Barbados
Accepted tests include tests which were taken at an approved or recognised laboratory by a healthcare provider via a nasopharyngeal sample, oropharyngeal sample, nasal sample, anterior nares samples or mid-turbinate sample. Your test certificate should provide this information. LAMP tests, shallow nasal swab samples, self-administered tests or home kits or tests using saliva samples will not be accepted. Relevant test accrediting bodies and standards authorities include: ISO 15189, CAP, UKAS or the equivalent. You should check the protocols to confirm and understand all requirements. All passengers are also required to submit an Embarkation/Disembarkation (ED) card 24 hours prior to travel, to which they should upload their negative test result via Travel Form. The BIMSafe app can also be used.
If you arrive in Barbados from the UK without a valid negative COVID test, you may be denied entry to the country. You should not use the NHS testing service to get a test in order to facilitate your travel to another country. You should arrange to take a private test. On arrival all passengers are also subject to a health screen.
If you have recovered from recently diagnosed COVID-19 and your pre-flight PCR test is still positive, you should bring a letter from your medical practitioner with lab test results showing the date of diagnosis and recovery. You may be obliged on arrival to complete an assessment at one of the government isolation facilities for up to 48 hours before being released from quarantine.
Unvaccinated arrivals will be quarantined for three days at approved facilities (a designated holding hotel, approved villa or a government facility at your own expense) and undergo a second PCR test 4 days after arrival. You will need to remain in your hotel room and may be required to wear an electronic tracking bracelet until you receive the results of your second test. The government aims to return results within 48 hours, although return times can sometimes be longer than this. If the result of that second test is negative, you will not be subject to further quarantine. The government recommends that you book 5 nights’ accommodation.
See the Barbados Travel Protocols for full details.
If you’ve had COVID-19 in the past year
If you have recovered from recently diagnosed COVID-19 and your pre-flight PCR test is still positive, you should bring a letter from your medical practitioner with lab test results showing the date of diagnosis and recovery. You may be obliged on arrival to complete an assessment at one of the government isolation facilities for up to 48 hours before being released from quarantine.
Children and young people
Children aged 17 and under who are travelling with a fully vaccinated adult can follow the rules for the fully vaccinated adult to enter Barbados.
Children aged 17 and under who are travelling unaccompanied must show proof of a valid test result, in line with the requirements set out on this page and in the Barbados Travel Protocols.
If you’re transiting through Barbados
Transiting is when you pass through one country on the way to your final destination.
See the Barbados Travel Protocols for full details of requirements for both vaccinated and unvaccinated travellers transiting through Barbados.
Exemptions
Travellers with circumstances they believe warrant an exemption to any of the entry requirements to Barbados are advised to contact the Ministry of Health and Wellness in Barbados to have their requests considered. Requests for exemptions should be sent to covid19hotline@barbados.gov.bb at least 3 days prior to arrival.
See the Barbados Travel Protocols for further details.
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
You should check with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Passport validity
Your passport should be valid for the proposed duration of your stay. No additional period of validity beyond this is required.
Visas
British passport holders don’t need a visa to visit Barbados.
On entry, you will normally be granted a specified period to stay. If you wish to stay longer, you must apply and pay for an extension of stay through the Barbados Immigration Department.
It’s an offence to overstay the entry period or to work without a work permit.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are accepted for entry, airside transit and exit from Barbados.
Departure tax
A departure tax of BDS$55 (US$27.50) applies for all passengers over 2 years old leaving Barbados. From 1 October 2018, an additional fee has been added. Passengers flying outside of the Caribbean region pay US$70 per person, and those flying within the Caribbean pay US$35 per person. Most airlines include the cost within the ticket price. If in doubt, you should check with your airline or tour operator.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
Returning to the UK
Check what you must do to return to the UK.
