If you have a health condition, or you are pregnant, you may need specialist healthcare abroad. Check whether your destination country can provide the healthcare you may need and ensure you have appropriate travel insurance for unexpected medical evacuation or local treatment.
See the Coronavirus travel health and Healthcare sections in the Coronavirus page for COVID-19 health information.
At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Local medical care
The Barbados health care system is not as extensive as the UK and, in light of COVID pressures, is facing additional stretch and pressure. Consequently, patients may experience some additional delays to treatment and service times. All visitors should ensure they have suitable travel and medical insurance, including where necessary to cover the costs of emergency repatriation.
Due to COVID, the health care system in Barbados discourages hospital walk in visitors in all but the most acute/emergency circumstances, and ask wherever possible for patients to call a local helpline in advance. The Queen Elizabeth Hospital helpline helps triage non-emergency cases before they reach Accident and Emergency, and to ensure patients go to the most appropriate place for medical treatment. If you are unsure whether the situation is an emergency and whether a hospital visit is required, you can call the Queen Elizabeth Hospital helpline on +1(246) 536 4800 to speak with a health care professional. Enquires connected to COVID-19 should be directed to the COVID-19 Hotline which is +1(246) 536 4500.
The UK-Barbados reciprocal healthcare agreement terminated with effect from 1 October 2016. For more information see the NHS Choices website. Medical treatment in Barbados can be expensive. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment and repatriation.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 511 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment. Before choosing to be treated at a private facility, you should check their policies on pre-payment. Private clinics may not accept medical travel insurance as payment for treatment.
The main government hospital can cope with many types of treatment but serious cases may mean emergency evacuation.
Health risks
UK health authorities have classified Barbados as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For more information and advice, visit the website of the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
Dengue fever is endemic to Latin America and the Caribbean and can occur throughout the year. There is currently a spike in dengue cases.
Cases of Chikungunya virus have been confirmed in Barbados. You should take steps to avoid being bitten by mosquitoes.
