Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

There are currently no commercial options available to return to the UK from Barbados.
British Airways and Virgin have suspended their services to and from Grantley Adams International Airport. Regional airline LIAT has suspended all operations. We know this is concerning for British people trying to leave Barbados. The UK government is in contact with with airlines and the Barbados authorities and will update these pages when there are options available for you to return to the UK.
What to do
If you cannot leave Barbados at this time, you should:
follow the advice of local authorities, including local measures to help minimise your risk of exposure to coronavirus. The Barbados Ministry of Health and Wellness has a coronavirus hotline staffed by public health officers 24 hours a day on +1 246 536 4500.
find accommodation that’s suitable for your needs
keep in regular contact with family and friends at home, so they know you are safe and well
See more information and advice about staying where you are if you cannot return to the UK.
Future travel options
The UK government is working closely with airlines and the Barbados authorities and will update these pages when there are options available for you to return to the UK.
This travel advice will be updated when departure options become available.
Where possible, British Nationals in Barbados should monitor the following social media platforms for the latest available information on departure options:
Facebook: UKinBarbadosandEasternCaribbean
Twitter: UKinCaribbean
Instagram: UKinCaribbean
You should also sign up for travel advice email alerts.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Arrival in the UK
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British High Commission on +1 246 430 7800.
The High Commission cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone. This page will be updated when departure options become available. To get the latest information, sign up for travel advice email alerts
Further information
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
