

Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. You should remain vigilant at all times.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Barbados
Terrorist attacks in Barbados cannot be ruled out.
Crime
Most visits are trouble-free, but there have been incidents of violent crime including armed robbery, sexual assaults and gang-related shootings.
There has been an increase in gang-related murders involving guns. Some incidents have taken place in populated and public areas. Remain vigilant.
Take sensible precautions to protect your personal safety:
make sure your accommodation is secure
take care when walking alone off busy main roads and taking money from ATMs
avoid isolated areas, including beaches, particularly after dark
only use licensed taxis
take particular care at late night street parties, especially during the festival season
do not carry large amounts of cash or jewellery
leave valuables and travel documents in a safety deposit box or secure hotel safe
avoid wearing gold jewellery visibly as there have been several robberies in Bridgetown and other popular tourist areas
Laws and cultural differences
Illegal drugs and prison sentences
It is illegal to possess drugs. There are severe penalties for all drug offences. Pack all luggage yourself and do not carry anything through customs for anyone else.
Laws on clothing
It is an offence for anyone, including children, to dress in camouflage clothing.
LGBT+ travellers
Local attitudes towards the LGBT+ community are mostly conservative in the Caribbean. Public displays of affection (such as hand-holding or kissing) between opposite or same-sex couples are uncommon and may attract unwanted and negative attention. See our information and advice page for the LGBT+ community before you travel.
Outdoor activities and adventure tourism
Swimming safety
Take great care at all times when swimming. Currents can be deceptively strong, including on some of the popular beaches on the south and west coasts. Some beaches do not have lifeguards or warning flags.
Swimming is not recommended on many of the east coast beaches where currents are particularly strong. Follow local warnings.
Transport risks
Road travel
If you are planning to drive in Barbados, see information on driving abroad and safety tips.
You should drive on the left in Barbados. If you have an accident, call the police and do not move the vehicle if you have an accident.
Licences and permits
You need a Barbados driving licence to drive in Barbados. You can buy one from a car hire company or online from the Barbados Revenue Authority. You also need to travel with your UK driving licence.
Taxis
Taxis are not metered. Standard taxi fares exist for most destinations. Agree the fare in local currency with the driver before you set off. Card payment is not always accepted so ensure you carry cash with you.
Extreme weather and natural disasters
Hurricanes
Tropical Storm Tammy is forecast to affect Barbados; hurricane-strength winds and flooding are possible. You should check local and international weather updates from the US National Hurricane Center and follow the advice of the Barbados Government Information Service, including evacuation orders.
The hurricane season normally runs from June to November. See FCDO’s tropical hurricanes advice.
Earthquakes
Earthquakes are a potential threat and tremors are felt occasionally in the Caribbean. Follow the advice of the local authorities and guidance from the US Federal Emergency Management Agency.
Volcanic eruptions
Check the alert level of the underwater volcano ‘Kick ‘em Jenny’, located 5 miles off the coast of Grenada. Observe any maritime exclusion zones and follow the advice of the local authorities if there is increased activity or an eruption.
