This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Barbados as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Barbados to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Barbados
For information on entering Barbados, see Entry Requirements
Barbados plans to amend its entry requirements to coincide with the re-opening of airspace and resumption of commercial flights. Specifically, the need for mandatory 14 day quarantine will be removed. Instead, all persons arriving in Barbados should be tested for COVID-19 at an accredited laboratory. You must take a COVID-19 PCR antigen test 72 hours in advance of your flight. The standard of test must be ISO, or CAP, or in the case of the UK, UKAS compliant, or equivalent. If you’re arriving from CARICOM countries, you’re allowed to be tested up to one week before travel. If you receive a certificate confirming you are COVID-19 negative, you will be allowed to enter Barbados.
If you arrive in Barbados without being tested, you will be subjected to a mandatory test on arrival at the Concorde Experience facility which is next to the airport. The cost of the test is US$150. You will need to isolate in your accommodation until the test results are provided. This can take a maximum of 48 hours.
Anyone who tests positive for COVID-19 will be taken to a Barbados government quarantine facility at Harrison Point, St Lucy.
In addition, all persons arriving in Barbados are required to wear face masks and will have their temperature taken.
Moving around Barbados, wearing a face mask is actively encouraged and some premises will only allow you to enter if you are wearing a face mask. You may also have your temperature taken when entering some premises.
You should follow the Barbados Government Information Service on Facebook for further details as plans are subject to change at short notice.
Health
Follow the advice of local authorities, including local measures to help minimise your risk of exposure to coronavirus. The Barbados Ministry of Health and Wellness has a coronavirus hotline staffed by public health officers 24 hours a day on +1 246 536 4500.
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Barbados.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Barbados, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
