Travel to Barbados is subject to entry restrictions
You must complete and submit an online immigration/customs form 24 hours prior to travel
Barbados designates the UK as a high-risk country. Travellers from the UK must arrive with a negative PCR test taken by a certified or accredited laboratory within 3 days of arrival
On arrival, you will undergo a rapid antigen test. If positive, you will be transferred to the government isolation facility. If negative, you will be required to quarantine at government approved facilities (a designated holding hotel, approved villa or a government facility at your own expense), and undertake a further test 5 days after your arrival. You will need to stay in your hotel room and may be required to wear an electronic tracking bracelet until you receive the results of your second test. If this second test is negative you will no longer be subject to quarantine. The government aims to return results within 48 hours but there have been some delays. Check the Barbados Travel Protocols carefully for full details of these requirements.
Barbados’ airport operations are impacted by severe volcanic ash connected to volcanic activity on the island of St Vincent. Barbados’ Grantley Adams International Airport (GAIA) is currently closed and all flights to and from GAIA are cancelled. GAIA is expected to remain closed until 1200 (midday) local time on Friday 16 April. However, the situation continues to change and persons wishing to travel should check with their airline for flight information, as further disruptions cannot be ruled out.
Check this advice from the Royal Barbados Police Force on keeping safe while there is ashfall.
Persons planning to arrive in Barbados whose negative PCR test results are now outside the Government of Barbados mandated 3 days of arrival window should check the Barbados’ Government Information Service website to ensure their negative PCR test results meet Barbados Government regulations.
See Entry requirements for more information before you plan to travel.
Preparing for your return journey to the UK
If you’re returning to the UK from overseas, you will need to:
provide your journey and contact details before you travel
If your return journey to the UK transits another country, you should check whether it is subject to a travel ban or any other additional requirements. If so, contact your travel provider.
The closure of GAIA is disrupting flights to the UK. This will impact persons who had made arrangements to have their pre-departure testing prior to arriving in the UK, and arrangements for their testing on arrival in the UK.
Pre-departure COVID testing: the law requires proof of a negative COVID-19 test in the 72 hours before the service (e.g. flight) that will arrive in the UK departs. If your flight to the UK has been delayed, and thereby your COVID-19 negative test results are outside of the 72 hour window, the law has a provision for a “reasonable excuse”. However, this would be at the discretion of the airline and the Border Force official on arrival in the UK. You should not assume that either the airline or Border Force official will consider your flight being disrupted due to the volcanic ash being a “reasonable excuse”.
COVID testing after arrival in the UK: If delayed, you should contact the provider through which you have booked your tests. In many cases, the tests are posted to the address provided by person travelling, in which case the tests can be taken on the relevant dates (if they can be received at that address). If there are problems, you should contact the provider of your test.
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
If you’re planning travel to Barbados, find out what you need to know about coronavirus in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCDO’s guidance on foreign travel insurance.
For information about COVID-19 vaccines, see the Coronavirus page.
Most visits to Barbados are trouble free, but there have been incidents of crime including armed robbery and sexual assault. See Crime
The hurricane season normally runs from June to November. You should follow and monitor local and international weather updates from the US National Hurricane Centre and follow the advice of local authorities, including any evacuation orders. See Natural disasters
UK health authorities have classified Barbados as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For more information and advice, visit the website of the National Travel Health Network and Centre website. There is currently a spike in dengue cases. You should take steps to avoid being bitten by mosquitoes. See Health
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Barbados, attacks can’t be ruled out. See Terrorism
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.
The Overseas Business Risk service offers information and advice for British companies operating overseas on how to manage political, economic, and business security-related risks.
