Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Djibouti on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
If you are in Djibouti and have symptoms call the helpline on 1517 immediately and ask for advice.
International travel
Djiboutian air, sea and land borders are open. You should contact airlines direct to get details of scheduled flights. The train service to and from Addis Ababa in Ethiopia is running normally.
When leaving Djibouti, you must provide evidence of a negative test to airport authorities.
From 21 June, when leaving Djibouti, foreign residents of Djibouti (as well as Djiboutian nationals) are required to show evidence of having received at least one dose of a coronavirus vaccine or evidence of an appointment overseas for a vaccine or provide evidence of medical exemption from having the vaccine.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Djibouti.
Returning to the UK
Travelling from and returning to the UK
Check what you must do to travel abroad and return to England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
If you plan to pass through another country to return to the UK, check the travel advice for the country you’re transiting.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Local measure
Face coverings must be worn in public and private spaces where social distancing is not possible. Restaurants, shops are open with social distancing measures in place.
Accommodation
Hotels are open as normal.
Public places and services
Rules and practice about sizes of gatherings permitted are under constant review. You should seek and follow local advice. Government offices, shops, hotels, places of worship are open.
Healthcare in Djibouti
View Health for further details on healthcare in Djibouti.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Djibouti
We will update this page when the Government of Djibouti announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Djibouti national vaccination programme started in March 2021 and is using the AstraZeneca, Sinovac and Johnson and Johnson vaccines. British nationals resident in Djibouti are eligible for vaccination if they choose to join the programme. You should follow the advice given to the general public to access vaccines.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in Djibouti, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
Website for President of Djibouti
Health Ministry Facebook page
