This page has information on travelling to Djibouti.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport from the UK, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Djibouti set and enforce entry rules. If you’re unsure how Djibouti’s entry requirements apply to you, contact its UK embassy, high commission or consulate.
All travellers
You will need a visa to enter or travel through Djibouti as a visitor. See Visas
If you’re fully vaccinated
Even if you are fully vaccinated you will still need to arrive with a PCR test which must have been taken within 72 hours of the start of the journey and 120 hours of arrival in Djibouti. On arrival you will be required to take an additional COVID-19 test at the airport for which you will pay $30.
You also need to show a Djiboutian PCR test to leave Djibouti whether or not your final destination requires this evidence.
Proof of vaccination status
You must be prepared to present proof that you have been fully vaccinated to enter Djibouti and are 25 years or older.
Djibouti will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 recovery and vaccination record and proof of COVID-19 vaccination issued in the Crown Dependencies. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
If you’re not fully vaccinated
If you’re not fully vaccinated or cannot show evidence of having been vaccinated, you may be required to spend 10 days in quarantine in your own accommodation.
All arrivals are required to provide a PCR test certificate from the country where the journey started. The test must be taken within 72 hours of the start of the journey and 120 hours of arrival in Djibouti.
On arrival at all entry points (land, air or sea), if you are older than 11 years, you will be tested for COVID-19 which can take up to an hour. You should not eat anything 30 minutes before your arrival at the entry point. You will have to pay for the test either by credit card, but as the credit card machines do not always work, cash (dollars, euros accepted) is a more reliable method of payment. If the test result is positive, foreign travellers will have to go into quarantine, at their own expense, at a hotel agreed with those conducting the test or if showing symptoms into the hospital, until testing negative. Djiboutian nationals who test positive can choose to go to a government isolation site at no cost or pay costs of staying at a hotel.
If you’ve had COVID-19 in the past year
Entry requirements for Djibouti are the same for all travellers, regardless of whether you have tested positive for COVID-19 in the past year.
Children and young people
Children aged 10 years and below are not required to take PCR test on arrival. Those aged 24 years and under are not required to show evidence of having been vaccinated.
If you are transiting through Djibouti
If you are transiting through Djibouti on your way to another country and staying in the airport (airside) or on the plane there are no COVID-19 related requirements.
If you are transiting through Djibouti on your way to another country and will be passing through immigration (sometimes known as a layover), for example to stay in a hotel for a flight the next day, you need to follow the requirements for entry into Djibouti and will need to get a PCR test from Djibouti in order to leave.
Exemptions
There are exemptions on providing evidence of vaccination for those that can show evidence that health reasons mean they should not have the vaccine, those that are pregnant or breast feeding baby up to 6 months old, had COVID-19 less than four months before travel date.
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
Check with your travel provider to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Passport validity
Your passport should be valid for a minimum period of 6 months from the date of entry into Djibouti.
Visas
British nationals need a visa to enter Djibouti. You can buy a tourist visa on arrival at the airport - payment in cash. Or you can apply on line, before travelling, at www.evisa.gouv.dj or contact a Djiboutian Embassy. You must have evidence of your onward journey.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are accepted for entry, transit and exit from Djibouti.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
