Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

There are currently no commercial options available to return to the UK from Djibouti as the Government of Djibouti suspended all commercial flights into and out of Djibouti and closed the borders.
We know this is concerning for British people trying to leave Djibouti. The UK government is working closely with airlines, the Djiboutian authorities and other governments to make sure options are available for you to return to the UK as soon as possible.
What to do
There is no British Embassy in Djibouti. The nearest British Embassy is in Addis Ababa. If you are currently in Djibouti and would like to return to the UK, you should email returnfromEthiopia@fco.gov.uk with:
name
email address
mobile telephone number
location
any other relevant information.
This email address is only for those expressing an interest in travelling back to the UK. It is not for consular assistance.
If you cannot leave Djibouti, you should:
follow the advice of local authorities, including local measures to help minimise your risk of exposure to coronavirus
find accommodation that’s suitable for your needs
keep in regular contact with family and friends at home, so they know you are safe and well
See more information and advice about staying where you are if you cannot return to the UK.
Future travel options
The UK government is working closely with airlines, the Djiboutian authorities and other governments to make sure options are available for you to return to the UK as soon as possible.
Spaces on charter flights organised by other countries are sometimes available to British Nationals. The European Union may organise a flight to Paris/Brussels. If interested you should go to the French Embassy Consular section in Djibouti and register your interest.
Sign up for travel advice email alerts.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Your journey home
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Help and support
Consular support is limited in Djibouti as there is no British Embassy. The British Honorary Consul in Djibouti can only offer limited help. The nearest British Embassy is in Addis Ababa. If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British Embassy in Addis Ababa on +251 (0)11 617 0100, or call the FCO on 0207 008 1500.
The British Embassy in Addis Ababa cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone. This page will be updated when departure options become available. To get the latest information, sign up for travel advice email alerts.
Further information
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
