!
Warning
FCDO advises against all travel to parts of Djibouti.

This guide also has safety advice for regions of Djibouti.
Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.    
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Djibouti
Terrorists are likely to try and carry out attacks in Djibouti.
Terrorism attacks could be indiscriminate, including in crowded areas and places frequented by foreign nationals, such as:
transport hubs
hotels, restaurants and bars
shopping areas
religious events
sporting events
military bases
Stay aware of your surroundings, keep up to date with local media reports and follow the advice of local authorities.
The terrorist group Al Shabaab may see Djibouti and international interests within Djibouti as legitimate targets. This is because Djibouti participates in the African Union peacekeeping mission, ATMIS, and joins in international support of the Somali government. Al Shabaab has issued public threats against Djibouti. 
Crime
Protecting your belongings
There is a risk of petty crime. Take precautions such as:
not walking alone late at night
keeping valuables, particularly cameras and passports, out of sight
Laws and cultural differences
Ramadan  
Ramadan is a holy month for Muslims. The dates vary by year and country. During this time, do not:
eat, drink, smoke or chew gum in public in the daytime, including in your car
play loud music or dance
swear in public
Get more advice when you arrive from your tour guide, hotel or business contacts. You should show respect to those who are fasting and take care not to offend local values.
You should also:
check opening hours of shops and restaurants
be aware that if hotels and restaurants are providing food or drink in fasting hours, they may separate you from Islamic guests, for example with screens
be aware that government offices and public institutions may change their working hours during Ramadan
follow local dress codes – clothing that does not meet local dress codes may cause more offence at this time
be aware that fasting can cause tiredness, particularly during the later afternoon and early evening
be patient and show tolerance
Money
Credit and debit cards are not widely accepted. If credit cards are accepted, you often need a Visa card. ATMs are normally available in Djibouti City, but they may not accept Mastercard. Make sure that you carry enough cash.
Alcohol laws
Drinking alcohol is allowed, but you can get a 2-year prison sentence for drunken behaviour.
Using cameras
Photographing infrastructure, such as ports, public buildings, airports, military facilities, and bridges, is prohibited. Your equipment could be confiscated, and you could be arrested. When taking photos near prohibited places, take care and seek local advice if you are unsure.
LGBT+ travellers
Same-sex sexual behaviour is not illegal but is not common in Djiboutian public life. Same-sex couples showing affection in public could attract the attention of the authorities under laws around “good morals”.
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Transport risks
Road travel
If you are planning to drive in Djibouti, see information on driving abroad.
You can use a UK photocard driving licence to drive in Djibouti for up to 12 months. If you still have a paper driving licence, you may need to update it to a photocard licence or obtain a local Djiboutian driving licence through the Ministry of Interior.
Driving standards
Driving standards are generally poor. Many drivers use the legal narcotic khat, which contributes to speeding and unsafe driving. Roads are often narrow and poorly lit and maintained.
Stay on paved roads and avoid travelling outside city centres after dark. Vehicles often have no lights and livestock may be on the roads. Many large trucks use the main Djibouti-Ethiopia road.
On some major roads police use wire coils as roadblocks, which are not clearly visible at night.
Air travel
The UK Air Safety List (ASL) lists all known airlines in Djibouti that do not meet international safety standards and are banned from operating commercial air services to, from, and within the UK. Check the UK Air Safety List when considering which airlines to fly with. The list is maintained by the Department for Transport, based on advice from the UK Civil Aviation Authority.
Sea travel
There is a significant risk of piracy and armed robbery in the Gulf of Aden and Indian Ocean. Pirates continue to attack fishing dhows around the Horn of Africa. International naval counter-piracy forces advise all sailing yachts to avoid the designated high-risk area where there is risk of hijacking. See piracy and armed robbery at sea.
Extreme weather and natural disasters
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards.
Flooding
Intense rainfall is rare but can cause flash floods, particularly around Djibouti City. Flash floods can cause:
major disruption to travel and infrastructure, including schools and public places
damage to buildings and roads
water-borne and respiratory disease outbreaks
Stay away from flood areas and follow official advice.
Earthquakes and volcanic eruptions
Earthquakes and volcanic eruptions are a risk in Djibouti. The US Federal Emergency Management Agency website has advice about what to do before, during and after an earthquake.
