Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Ireland on the TravelHealthPro website.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Local advice
There are local restrictions in the counties of Kildare, Laois and Offaly. See Travel in Ireland
Across Ireland, physical distancing should be maintained at all times. Amongst other measures, you are advised to:
wash your hands well and often
observe good cough and sneeze etiquette
distance yourself at least 2 metres away from other people, especially those who might be unwell
limit your contact with others when out and about
keep your close contacts to a small number of people
avoid crowded areas
keep a log of all of your contacts throughout the day
avoid using public transport, where possible
wear a face covering in situations where physical distancing is not possible and as a mandatory measure in shops,shopping centres and on public transport. There are penalties for non-compliance in these settings.
wear a face mask if you are travelling in a private vehicle with someone from outside of your household.
Some people are exempted from wearing masks. For more information, please see the Irish Government website.
If you are over 70 or extremely medically vulnerable you can still meet with people and go outside for exercise but are advised, if at all possible, to avoid public transport, shop during designated hours or seek assistance if needed in accessing food, essential supplies and medicine. You are also advised to maintain a 2 metre distance from others when exercising outdoors and to wash hands on returning home.
The Irish Government states that as risk cannot be completely eliminated, you will need to decide what is right for you and your health. See the Irish Government website for further information, which covers relevant information for a range of different scenarios.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Ireland.
Travel in Ireland
Kildare, Laois and Offaly counties
There are local restrictions in place in the counties of Kildare, Laois and Offaly from midnight on 7 August. People from outside these counties should not travel to Kildare, Laois or Offaly, except for work or essential reasons. If you need to travel through these counties you should not stop, unless for essential purposes.
People in Kildare, Laois or Offaly should only travel within their county except for the essential reasons set out.
Indoor gatherings are restricted to a maximum of 6 people from up to 3 households. Outdoor gatherings are restricted to a maximum of 15 people. You should not use public transport in these counties unless it is absolutely necessary to do so. Hotels can open but must limit occupancy to essential non-social and non-tourist reasons.
Full details of business and amenity restrictions in these counties can be found on the Irish Government website.
Elsewhere in Ireland
Since 18 August, other public health measures are in place across all counties in Ireland . You are able to travel anywhere in Ireland (with the exceptions of Kildare, Laois and Offaly as set out above), and most businesses, services and cultural activities can reopen, but there are limits on the numbers who may gather both indoors and outdoors.
Healthcare in Ireland
If you’re in Ireland and think you have coronavirus symptoms, see advice from Ireland’s Department of Health.
A phased reintroduction of non-coronavirus care in hospitals and other health services settings has begun, which will be delivered alongside COVID-19 care.
For contact details for local doctors, visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Ireland.
Public spaces and services
There are specific local restrictions in the counties of Kildare, Laois and Offaly. See Travel in Ireland
In all other counties from 18 August:
Indoor gatherings are limited to 6 people, except for businesses like shops and restaurants, where specific protocols are in place.
A maximum of 6 people from a maximum of 3 different households are permitted in a private home or garden gatherings.
Outdoor gatherings are limited to 15 people.
Restaurants and cafes can remain open, with a mandatory closing time of 11.30pm. There are protocols in place for restaurants to follow. The maximum number of 6 people is permitted and diners must wear face coverings until seated and again on departure.
Most community, religious, cultural, social and sport facilities are now open, whilst observing physical distancing and other relevant public health guidelines and protocols.
All sporting events are to take place behind closed doors, with a strict avoidance of social gatherings before and after matches, social distancing in between and on the sidelines. The limit of 15 people outdoors also applies to sports training and indoor exercises classes are limited to 6 people.
The resumption of visiting at hospitals, nursing homes and other residential settings is continuing on a planned, phased basis. Contact the facility you are visiting ahead of your visit for details, and do not visit if you have symptoms of COVID-19 or have been a close contact of someone who is confirmed as having the virus.
A number of educational facilities are now able to open, whilst observing all of the relevant public health guidelines. See the Irish Government website for further details.
Work
Unless it is absolutely essential for an employee to attend in person, they should work from home. The Irish Government has also published extensive guidance for business owners to guide the reopening of their businesses. This covers guidance for keeping both customers and employees adequately protected.
For full details, visit the Irish Government website.
Transport
You should avoid using public transport where possible. If there is not alternative to the use of public transport, face coverings are mandatory.
See more detailed guidance from the Irish Government on the safe use of face coverings.
You can now travel throughout Ireland and to Ireland’s offshore islands.
Private transport
The wearing of facemasks is recommended on private transport if households are mixed.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
Further information
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
