The information on this page covers the most common types of travel and reflects the UK government’s understanding of the rules currently in place. Unless otherwise stated, this information is for travellers using a full ‘British Citizen’ passport.
The authorities in the country or territory you’re travelling to are responsible for setting and enforcing the rules for entry. If you’re unclear about any aspect of the entry requirements, or you need further reassurance, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
You should also consider checking with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Entry rules in response to coronavirus (COVID-19)
All arrivals, including Irish residents, arriving from overseas must complete a Public Health Passenger Locator Form prior to arriving in Ireland. The form may be used by health authorities to contact passengers in order to verify their location in the country.
Failure to complete the form could result in the issuing of penalties, including a fine of up to €2,500 or imprisonment for up to 6 months.
An exemption from completing the form is in place for providers of essential supply chain services such as hauliers, pilots and maritime staff.
Travel from Great Britain and South Africa
Until Midnight Friday 8 January:
On 6 January, the Irish Government extended its ban on flights and passenger ferry journeys from Great Britain until midnight on 8 January. Passengers transiting Great Britain en route to Ireland and travel from Northern Ireland is not in scope of this announcement.
Until 8 January, residents of Ireland in Great Britain who need to return to Ireland or those who need to travel for compassionate or emergency reasons should contact the Irish Government’s Great Britain Emergency Travel Advice Line for assistance by phoning +353 16131700. There is more information on the Irish Government website. These people will be advised to self-isolate for 14 days upon their return to Ireland.
Ferry crossings from Great Britain to Ireland continue for freight, including accompanied freight, but not passengers except in the case of the limited exceptions above. Ferry journeys from Ireland to Great Britain are open to both freight and passengers and flights are operating to Great Britain, but disruption is possible. If you were due to travel to or from Ireland, contact your travel operator, and follow relevant local guidance on Covid-19 public health measures on your arrival.
Further updates will be published when they are available. Check our advice on things to consider, and be prepared to stay overseas longer than planned.
The above travel restrictions also apply to those traveling to Ireland from South Africa.
From 9 January:
From 9 January 2021, all passengers arriving at Irish airports and ports whose journey originates in Great Britain or South Africa will be requested to have evidence of a negative result from a pre-departure Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) COVID-19 test (COVID-19 not detected) take up to 72 hours prior to arrival in Ireland. These people will be advised to self-isolate for 14 days upon their return to Ireland.
Passengers who arrive in an Irish airport or sea port without evidence of a negative/’not detected’ test result will commit an offence and may be subject to prosecution, punishable by a fine not exceeding €2,500 or imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or both. For information, please see here a list of private providers of Coronavirus testing in the UK for international travel. If testing for travel to Ireland ensure it is a PCR test.
Travel from Northern Ireland is not in scope of this announcement but any such travel is subject to the public health restrictions in place in Northern Ireland and Ireland respectively.
Passengers whose journey does not originate in either Great Britain or South Africa, but who transit through an airport or port in Great Britain as part of their journey to Ireland, will not be required to provide evidence of a negative/’not detected’ Covid-19 PCR test.
Passengers who arrive in Ireland solely for the purpose of travelling onwards to another state and do not leave the airport are also not required to provide evidence of a test.
International Transport Workers, including workers in aviation, maritime and road haulage sectors, are exempt from this requirement.
If a citizen has a genuine humanitarian emergency requiring urgent travel, they should contact the nearest Irish Embassy or Consulate immediately for advice and consular assistance before commencing their journey.
Self-isolating/restricting movements on arrival
Arrivals from Great Britain and South Africa
Those arriving in Ireland from Great Britain, should self-isolate (stay in your room) for 14 days from the date of arrival into Ireland, including after 9 January for those who have shown evidence of a negative PCR Covid-19 test. There is more information on the Irish Government website.
All such travellers, whether they have symptoms or not, are asked to phone any GP or GP out-of-hours service to arrange for a COVID-19 test, which should be done as soon as possible after 5 days post-arrival. This test will be free of charge if arranged through GPs.
Please check the Irish College of General Practitioners website for a list of GPs with phone contact information, or the HSE website for your local GP out of hours service.
Notwithstanding the result of this test, you are advised to complete the entire 14 days period of self-isolation.
If at any point in the 14 days following arrival, a traveller develops any symptoms suggestive of COVID-19, they should immediately phone a GP and alert them of their recent visit from Great Britain or South Africa.
Arrivals from other countries
People arriving from places other than Great Britain or South Africa are in general requested to restrict their movements for 14 days when they arrive into Ireland from another country. This applies to all travellers, including Irish citizens and people with no symptoms. Restricting movements on arrival means staying at home and avoiding contact with other people and social situations as much as possible. There is more information on restricting movement on the Irish Government website.
Ireland is implementing the EU ‘traffic lights’ approach to travel, which applies to countries in the EU/EEA. In line with the EU ‘traffic lights’ approach a combined indicator map will be published each week by the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC). Passengers from “green” regions are not required to restrict their movements for 14 days on arrival in Ireland. Arrivals from “red’”, “orange”, or “grey” regions into Ireland are requested to restrict their movement for 14 days.
Exemptions from restricted movement
People arriving from Northern Ireland and people arriving from a region categorised as ‘green’ under the EU ‘traffic lights’ scheme are not required to restrict their movements. Some other defined categories of arrivals are also exempted from countries under the ‘EU traffic lights’ scheme. These include:
International Transport Workers, including workers in aviation, maritime and road haulage sectors
Travellers with an essential function or need as set out in paragraph 19 of the EU Council Recommendation, including:
Passengers travelling for the purposes of an imperative business reason, only while carrying out that essential function
Passengers arriving for imperative family reasons, only while pursuing that imperative reason
Returning passengers, who have carried out an essential function in another region, but who have otherwise restricted their movement while in that region
Children aged 6 or under
Passengers arriving from an “orange” region, who have received a negative/’not detected’ result from a COVID-19 Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) test taken during the three days before departure to Ireland. Passengers are requested to have supporting evidence of the negative test in their possession.
It is the responsibility of individuals to determine whether their circumstances fall within one of the categories outlined in the EU Council Recommendation.
Passengers can indicate on their Passenger Locator Form if they are travelling with an essential purpose as defined by Council Recommendation 2020/1475 and may be asked for evidence in support of this. For a full list of people who are exempted please see the Irish Government website.
For travel from non-EU/EEA countries, the general request to restrict your movements for 14 days applies with exemptions for certain defined categories. For further details please visit the Irish Government website
Post-arrival testing of passengers
From midnight on 29 November arrivals from “red”, “orange” or “grey” regions under the ‘EU traffic lights’ scheme can end their period of restricted movement if they receive a negative /‘not detected’ result of a Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) test that has been taken a minimum of five days after their arrival in Ireland. This does not apply to arrivals from Great Britain or South Africa. Passengers wishing to obtain a post-arrival test should seek an appointment for a test in advance of travel, should note that the test will be provided by private commercial sector testing supply and will be paid for by passengers. Such passengers should wait for their negative test result to be returned before ending the period of restricted movements. Under Ireland’s infectious disease legislation details of a positive post-arrival Covid-19 test result must be provided by the test provider to the HSE public health department for follow-up. Please see the Irish Government website for further details on all of these issues.
Data collection
From 28 May there is a legal requirement for passengers arriving in Ireland from overseas to complete a Public Health Passenger Locator Form, with penalties for non-compliance as detailed in the form.
The form may be used by health authorities to contact you to verify your location in the country. It will also help contact tracers get in touch with you if there is a confirmed case of coronavirus on your flight or ferry. You must fill in the form before you arrive in Ireland.
Regular entry requirements
ID
Ireland, along with the UK, is a member of the Common Travel Area. British nationals travelling from the UK don’t need a passport to visit Ireland. However, Irish immigration officers will check the ID of all passengers arriving by air from the UK and may ask for proof of nationality, particularly if you were born outside the UK. You are therefore advised to take your British passport with you.
For more information about the types of ID you might be asked to present, see the website of the Ireland Citizens Information Board.
Before travelling, check with your carrier about their ID requirements, as most airlines and other transport providers won’t carry passengers to and from Ireland unless they’ve seen satisfactory photographic ID.
Passport validity
If you’re using a passport to enter Ireland, it should be valid for the proposed duration of your stay; you don’t need any additional period of validity on your passport beyond this.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are accepted for entry into, transit through, and exit from Ireland.
