At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist are available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Coronavirus
The Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) is advising against all but essential international travel. This global advice does not apply to travel from Northern Ireland to Ireland, but you should maintain social distancing. This is consistent with Irish Government advice.
Cases of coronavirus (COVID-19) have been confirmed in Ireland. The Irish authorities have introduced a number of measures to limit the spread of the virus.
On 16 March the Irish Government announced that all persons, including Irish residents, entering Ireland from overseas will be asked to make significant restrictions to their movements for 14 days on arrival. This does not apply to those entering Ireland from Northern Ireland at this time, nor to specified categories of essential supply chain workers such as aircrew, hauliers, maritime staff whether Irish-based or foreign-based.
On 12 March the Irish Government announced the following measures to limit the spread of the virus, which will run from Friday 13 March until Sunday 29 March:
the closure of schools, colleges and childcare facilities
the instruction to cancel indoor mass gatherings of 100 people or more and outdoor mass gatherings of more than 500 people
the closure of all State-run cultural institutions.
The Irish Government advised that public transport would continue and shops would remain open.
On 15 March the Irish Government advised all pubs and bars to close until at least 29 March. They also advised people to avoid gathering in any parties in private houses or other venues. The Dublin St Patrick’s Day Parade on 17 March and many other related events across the country were cancelled.
The authorities are also advising all people in Ireland to:
reduce social interactions
keep a distance of 2 metres between themselves and other people
not shake hands or make close contact with other people where possible
work remotely where possible
Further information from the Irish Government for guidance on all recommended measures and updates regarding the situation in Ireland can be found on the Irish Government website.
If you’re travelling to Ireland, follow the advice of the Health Service Executive and the Health Protection Surveillance Centre and keep up to date with the regular updates on the situation from the Irish Government.
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
You can find more information about cases in Ireland on the TravelHealthPro country page.
Healthcare
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 999 or 112 and ask for an ambulance. If you are referred to a medical facility for treatment you should contact your insurance/medical assistance company immediately.
If you are a British or Irish citizen, you have the right to access healthcare in either state. When visiting you also have the right to access needs-arising healthcare during your stay. Both Governments have committed to taking steps to ensure that this will continue. More information about healthcare for UK nationals living in and visiting Ireland is available on the NHS website.
It is important to take out comprehensive travel insurance that includes cover for medical treatment and associated costs. Read more about what your travel insurance should cover.
If you’re living in Ireland, you can also find more information on healthcare for residents in the Living In Ireland guide.
