Coronavirus guidance is being updated.
Read the Prime Minister’s statement for the latest information.

If you live in Great Britain and are currently visiting Ireland, you’re strongly advised to return now by commercial means. Check the latest travel advice and the most recent updates from your travel operator before travelling.
This advice does not affect travel from Northern Ireland to Ireland or intra-UK travel. If you need to undertake essential travel, you should follow the Irish and UK public health guidance respectively.
Transport options
There remain commercial options to return to Great Britain from Ireland; both flights and ferries.
The availability of transport from Ireland to Great Britain is subject to change. Some airlines have announced that services will reduce. If you’re visiting Ireland, you should closely monitor public announcements on flight and ferry services, and be prepared to adjust your travel plans accordingly.
UK special charter flights will only operate for priority countries where commercial flights are not possible. You should not assume that these flights will become available in countries where commercial routes are operating.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Your journey home: re-entering the UK
If you have been in Ireland for at least 14 days before you return to the UK, you do not need to follow the rules for entering the UK to provide details or self-isolate.
If you entered Ireland within the last 14 days from outside the Common Travel Area, you will need to:
provide your journey and contact details up to 48 hours before you’re due to arrive in the UK
not leave the place you’re staying for the first 14 days you’re in the UK except in very limited situations (known as ‘self-isolating’). See the rules for England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland
See also the list of people who are exempt from the border rules.
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) also provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
