Crime
Most visitors to Ireland experience no difficulties during their stay. Take sensible precautions to protect yourself from bag snatching and pick pocketing. Try to avoid carrying valuables and large sums of money. Make sure your vehicle is properly secured, and where possible park in secure parking areas.  Most incidents occur in the Dublin area. If you need to contact the emergency services call 112.
The Irish Tourist Assistance Service (ITAS) offers free support and practical help to victims of crime. This includes liaison with travel companies and financial institutions and, in emergency situations, arranging accommodation, meals and transport. ITAS recommends that you report any incident in person to the nearest Garda (Police) Station who will then contact the organisation.
Road travel
In 2019 there were 141 road deaths in Ireland (source: Department for Transport). This equates to 2.9 road deaths per 100,000 of population and compares to the UK average of 2.6 road deaths per 100,000 of population in 2019.
Don’t drink and drive. You may be heavily penalised or even imprisoned if you are found driving over the limit. New legal limits were introduced in October 2011. The new limit is 50 mg of alcohol per 100ml of blood (0.05%) for fully licensed drivers, and 20 mg of alcohol per 100ml of blood (0.02%) for professional, learner and novice drivers. The police conduct random breath-tests on drivers. Holding and using a mobile phone whilst driving is banned.
If you relocate to Ireland you must register your vehicle within a week of arriving. Your car may be impounded if you fail to do so. 
See the European Commission, AA and RAC guides on driving in Ireland.
If you are planning to drive in Ireland, see information on Driving Abroad.
Driving a British car abroad
You do not need a GB sticker or a UK sticker to drive a UK registered car in Ireland. Check the GOV.UK Displaying number plates website for more information on what to do if you are driving outside the UK before, on or after 28th September 2021.
