Coronavirus guidance is being updated.
Read the Prime Minister’s statement for the latest information.

This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Ireland as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Ireland to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Ireland
On 8 June, Ireland moved to Phase 2 of a roadmap for easing lockdown restrictions. You are advised to stay local during this phase, meaning you can travel within your county or up to 20 kilometres away from your home if crossing county boundaries.
The only circumstances in which you can travel beyond this are:
to travel to and from work, if your work cannot be carried out from home
to shop for essential food and household goods
to attend medical appointments and collect medicines
for vital family reasons, such as providing care to children, elderly or vulnerable people - but excluding social family visits
to escape domestic violence.
Social distancing should be maintained at all times.
You should:
wash your hands well and often
cover your mouth and nose with a tissue or bent elbow when coughing or sneezing, and discard used tissue safely
distance yourself at least 2 metres away from other people, especially those who might be unwell
limit your contact with others when out and about
keep your close contacts to a small number of people
limit the amount of time you spend in direct contact with other people
avoid crowded areas. If an area looks busy, go somewhere else or return at a quieter time
wear a face covering in situations where social distancing is not possible, for example shops and busy public transport, or if you are meeting someone who is vulnerable to the virus, for example people who are cocooning. Wearing cloth face coverings may help prevent people who do not know they have the virus from spreading it to others. Guidance on safe use of face coverings is available from the Department of Health.
keep a log of all of your contacts throughout the day
Further Irish Government advice covers social gathering:
Indoor
Up to 6 people who are not from the same household may also visit another household indoors. These visits should be kept as short as possible and last no more than an hour.
Indoor visits should be in well-ventilated rooms where possible and everyone should practise good hand hygiene by washing their hands or using hand sanitiser
Social distancing should be maintained with all people keeping 2 metres apart.
Outdoor
Groups of up to 6 people who are not from the same household can meet outdoors. This can include a family meeting an individual friend or neighbour, a group of individuals meeting outdoors, and three couples meeting outdoors.
Sport
You may practice sport or fitness activities in groups of up to 15 outdoors but you must practice social distancing, minimise contact, not share equipment and practise strict hygiene.
Activities involving children should involve no more than 12 children to allow for 3 supervisors to be present to oversee the activity and make sure that public health guidance is being followed.
Over 70s and those extremely medically vulnerable to Covid-19 (“cocooning”)
Up to 6 people may visit the home of those cocooning for a short period of time while maintaining strict social distancing, observation of hand hygiene practices, and where feasible in well-ventilated spaces. Outdoor visits are encouraged where possible. This public health advice also applies for those cocooning when visiting other households.
As those who are cocooning begin to meet with increased numbers of people, they may wish to consider meeting with the same group of family or friends to reduce the risk of infection. An approach for those cocooning may be to identify a core small group of particular friends and family as regular visitors. The risk of spread of disease is higher when people meet changing groups of people.
Work
Anyone who can work from home should continue to do so.
There will be a phased return to work for solitary workers and other workers who, due to the nature of their work, can maintain a constant distance of 2 metres from other people.
For full details, visit the Irish Government website.
Transport
Ireland’s transport network and services continue to operate safely and effectively.
The Irish Government recommends wearing a cloth face coverings on public transport. See more detailed guidance from the Irish Government on the safe use of face coverings.
In addition to the county and 20 kilometre travel restrictions, travel to Ireland’s offshore islands is limited to residents of those islands and the arrival of personal non-national maritime leisure vessels is banned (with exceptions such as ‘port in a storm’).
The latest Irish Government guidance can be viewed on the Irish Government website.
Health
If you’re in Ireland and think you have coronavirus symptoms, see advice from Ireland’s Department of Health.
For contact details for local doctors, visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Ireland.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Ireland, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
