Travel to Ireland is subject to entry restrictions
From 16 June, all passengers travelling from Great Britain must quarantine at home for 14 days. The period of home quarantine can be shortened following a negative PCR test after 5 days for fully vaccinated passengers, and after 10 days (following a negative PCR test) for unvaccinated or partially vaccinated passengers
There is a legal requirement for all travellers to quarantine on arrival for 14 days, with limited exceptions.
All passengers must complete a 14-day mandatory hotel quarantine if you have travelled from any country deemed high risk by the Irish government. This also includes travelling through an airport or port in a high risk country and for those arriving without the required negative/not detected PCR test.
Travellers whose journey originates in Northern Ireland are outside the scope of quarantine schemes, unless they have been overseas during the 14 days prior to their arrival in Ireland.
All passengers arriving at Irish ports and airports are required to have evidence of a negative/ ‘not detected’ test from a pre-departure Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) COVID-19 test taken no more than 72 hours prior to arrival in Ireland. Antigen or other test types do not meet the requirement.
People arriving in Ireland without evidence of a negative/‘not-detected’ test result will be committing an offence and may be subject to prosecution, punishable by a fine not exceeding €2,500, imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months, or both. They will also be required to undertake mandatory hotel quarantine. Passengers whose journey originates in Northern Ireland are not in scope of this announcement but any such travel is subject to the public health restrictions in place in Northern Ireland and Ireland respectively.
All passengers arriving in Ireland must complete a COVID-19 Passenger Locator Form. If you don’t fill out this form you may be fined up to €2,500 or receive a prison sentence of up to 6 months.
Please see the list of private providers of COVID-19 testing in the UK for the purposes of international travel. If testing for travel to Ireland, ensure it is a RT-PCR test.
Travel to the UK from Ireland is still possible, but disruption is also possible and you should check the local UK guidance in place at your destination. If you are due to travel to or from Ireland please check with your travel operator. Further updates will be published when they are available. Check our advice on things to consider, and be prepared to stay overseas longer than planned
See Entry requirements for more information before you plan to travel.
The Irish Government has announced that it will be making changes to Ireland’s COVID-19 restrictions in the summer. See Coronavirus
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
If you’re planning travel to Ireland, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCDO’s guidance on foreign travel insurance.
For information about COVID-19 vaccines, see the Coronavirus page.
Around 3 million British nationals visit Ireland each year. Most visits are trouble free.
You should carry an acceptable form of photo-identification to travel between the UK and Ireland. See Entry requirements
Terrorist attacks in Ireland can’t be ruled out. See Terrorism
If you’re living in or moving to Ireland, visit our Living in Ireland guide in addition to this travel advice.
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.
