Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on coronavirus risks (COVID-19) in Grenada on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing the spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Grenada.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements. Information on COVID testing venues can be found on Grenada Tourism Authority website.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you must self-isolate at your hotel, home or other approved facility. You will be monitored until granted clearance by local health officials. If you receive a positive test, you will be contacted by the health authorities and provided with all the information on your status and the requirements for self-isolation.
You are not allowed to leave your hotel while in self-isolation. If you are unable to stay in your hotel due to financial or other reasons you will be placed in a state approved and monitored facility. All transfers are conducted by health officials using strict infection prevention measures. All positive cases are treated similarly. Minors will be required to self-isolate even if travelling without parents. The guardian will self-isolate with the minor if required.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Grenada
Social distancing measures and wearing of facemasks is mandatory. Domestic travel between Grenada and Carriacou has resumed with options available 3 days a week (Monday, Wednesday and Friday).
The State of Emergency has been extended to May 2022. Local regulations are in place to limit the spread of COVID-19. These were amended to take effect from 5 November and include a reduced curfew restricting freedom of movement from 12 midnight to 4am. Full details are found on the Emergency Powers Regulations accessible on the GIS Facebook page.
A maximum of 75 individuals are now allowed to attend private gatherings. Weddings and funerals can host as many persons as the venue allows. Venues hosting these events must be capable of 6 ft. social distancing protocol.
Mandatory face covering in all public spaces, sanitising protocols, physical distancing, and no eating or drinking on public transport remain in effect. No physical spectators allowed at sporting events and artistic activities and only fully vaccinated customers allowed to dine at restaurants.
No visits are allowed to places of quarantine or self-isolation, to see prison detainees, nor to elderly nursing, care homes. Visitation is now allowed at hospitals but at the discretion of management. Anyone with flu like symptoms must notify the police. Details can be found in press releases with regular updates on Government Information Service Facebook page or Ministry of Health Facebook page.
The Government of Grenada will prosecute persons who breach the COVID-19 regulations, including persons who break quarantine. You should keep up to date with changes to restrictions in the regularly updated Emergency Powers Regulations on the Government of Grenada website, Government Information Service Facebook page or Ministry of Health Facebook page.
Public places and services
The restrictions on beach and river use have been removed. Individuals are allowed access for the purpose of exercise and swimming only. Businesses are allowed to be open at the discretion of management with consideration for the curfew hours but subject to physical distancing of 6 ft, hand-sanitising and wearing facemasks, booking appointments and reduced customer capacity. There is a ban on eating and drinking on public transport. No visits are allowed to quarantine or isolation venues, prison detainees, or elderly nursing, care homes. Everyone must wear a face mask covering nose and mouth when out in public.
There are penalties for breaching the restrictions. You should keep up to date with changes to restrictions in the regularly updated Emergency Powers Regulations on the Government of Grenada website, Government Information Service Facebook page or Ministry of Health Facebook
Accommodation
Most hotels have now re-opened in Grenada. The latest information is available from the Grenada Tourism Authority.
Healthcare in Grenada
Any person with flu-like symptoms must inform a local police station, medical station or the COVID-19 hotline. Anyone asked by the Ministry of Health to submit to testing, quarantine or isolation must comply. The Ministry of Health can be contacted via the COVID-19 helplines on 538 4787, 458 4787 or 438-4787 in Grenada and on 423-2812 or 423-2813 in Carriacou and Petite Martinique.
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Grenada.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Grenada
Wherever possible British nationals should aim to be vaccinated in the country where they live. We will update this page when the Government of Grenada announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Grenadian national vaccination programme started in February 2021 and is using the AstraZeneca vaccine. British nationals resident in Grenada are eligible for vaccination. A list of vaccination centres is on Grenada’s Ministry of Health facebook page and is updated weekly.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in Grenada, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
The Grenada Government Information Service Facebook page and Ministry of Health Facebook page have regularly updated information on the Emergency Powers Regulations which include local restrictions.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
