This page has information on travelling to Grenada. Check what you must do to return to the UK.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport from the UK, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Grenada set and enforce entry rules.
The Prime Minister has announced that the testing and vaccination requirement for arriving passengers will be discontinued from 4 April. Details will be available on the Ministry of health website in due course. Until then, only fully vaccinated visitors will be allowed entry into Grenada, with some exemptions. See the exemption list for more details.
All travellers
British passport holders don’t need a visa to visit Grenada.
On entry, you’ll be granted a specified period to stay. In normal circumstances, if you wish to stay longer, you must apply for an extension of stay through the Grenada Immigration Department.
It’s an offence to overstay the entry period or to work without a work permit.
Entry requirements may change from time to time. You should check with the Grenada High Commission in London before you travel.
If you’re fully vaccinated
Up to 4 April, only fully vaccinated visitors will be allowed entry into Grenada, with some exemptions (see below). Travellers are considered fully vaccinated:
2 weeks after their second dose in a 2-dose series, such as the Astra Zeneca, Pfizer, Moderna, Sinopharm or Sinovac vaccines
2 weeks after a single-dose vaccine, such as Johnson & Johnson’s Janssen vaccine
Up to 4 April, all travellers aged 5 and over will need to present either a negative COVID PCR test result taken within 3 days of travel, or a negative antigen test taken within 1 day of travel.. Full details are on the Ministry of health website.
You may be asked to undergo PCR testing on arrival at the airport as part of health screening on a case by case basis, which is free for those fully vaccinated – details are on the Ministry of Health website.
Proof of vaccination status
Up to 4 April, you must present proof that you have been fully vaccinated to enter Grenada.
Grenada will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 recovery and vaccination record. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
If you’re not fully vaccinated
Up to 4 April, unvaccinated travellers are required to quarantine for seven (7) days at an approved accommodation (the day of arrival being day zero) and on day five (5) must do a repeat PCR Test for COVID-19 to be allowed into the community. Unvaccinated travellers are required to have a confirmed reservation at an approved accommodation for quarantine. You will need to make your reservations at approved Ministry of Health Approved/Pure Safe travel accommodations. You can find a list of approved accommodation on the Ministry of Health website.
Unvaccinated travellers must receive confirmation of a negative PCR test after day five (5) and clearance from public health officials in order to be permitted to leave their quarantine site. If your day five (5) test is positive the traveller will be required to remain in isolation for 14 days (day one being the date the sample was collected) at a designated facility (this may be the existing quarantine facility or another based on an assessment of risk).
Unvaccinated travellers must apply for travel authorisation before travel, at the Ministry of Health website.
If you’ve had COVID-19 in the past year
Up to 4 April, travellers recently infected with COVID are allowed to enter Grenada with a positive COVID viral test on a sample taken no more than 90 days before arriving AND a letter from a licensed healthcare provider or health official stating you were cleared to travel AND a negative rapid antigen test taken no more than one (1) day before arrival. Full details are on the Ministry of Health website.
These rules are subject to change and should be checked regularly.
You can use the UK COVID Pass to demonstrate proof of COVID-19 recovery when entering Grenada.
Children and young people
Children aged under 5 do not need to present any vaccination certification for entry to Grenada. Children aged 5 and over are required to follow the same protocols as adult travellers.
If you’re transiting through Grenada
Transiting is when you pass through one country on the way to your final destination.
Grenada is not a transit point for travel.
Exemptions
The only exemptions are Citizens, Residents, Persons under 12, Diplomats and Airline crew on layover.
Citizens include persons carrying a Grenadian passport, or proof of citizenship or who were born in Grenada.
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
If you are visiting Grenada, your passport should be valid for 6 months from the date you arrive.
If you are a resident in Grenada, your passport must be valid for 6 months from the date you arrive.
Check with your travel provider to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Returning to the UK
Check what you must do to return to the UK.
