At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Coronavirus
The first coronavirus (COVID 19) case in Grenada was confirmed on 22 March. Government has introduced measures to limit the spread of the virus. These include a ban on gatherings, and enforcement of social distancing of 6 feet.
The Ministry of Health Grenada is asking the public to call the COVID-19 enquiries information line on 538 4787 or 458 4787 if they have any symptoms such as cough fever or difficulty breathing, and visit the Government’s webpage for the latest information on the virus.
If you wish to leave the country, contact your airline or travel company and your insurance provider as soon as you are able, and keep up to date with the latest developments. International travel may become more difficult.
The Government of Grenada announced that, effective from 19 March, until further notice, any non-Grenadian nationals and non-residents arriving in Grenada with a travel history in the UK and the rest of Europe within the last 14 days will not be permitted entry into Grenada. From the 22 March this also applies to travellers with a recent travel history to the US. This follows similar restrictions for persons with a travel history in mainland China, Italy, Iran, South Korea and Germany, France and Spain, within the last 14 days. Effective from 16 March, disembarkation from cruise vessels will also not be permitted in Grenada. Effective 22 March, non-Grenadian passengers and crew on yachts will not be permitted to disembark in Grenada, Carriacou, and Petite Martinique. Any failure to comply will result in a fine or detention.
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
Health risks
UK health authorities have classified Grenada as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For more information and advice, visit the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
Cases of Chikungunya virus have been confirmed in Grenada. You should take steps to avoid being bitten by mosquitoes.
Medical treatment
The main government hospital can cope with many types of treatment but serious cases may mean emergency evacuation. Medical treatment in Grenada can be expensive. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment and repatriation.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 434, 724, or 774 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment. Before choosing to be treated at a private facility, you should check their policies on pre-payment. Private clinics may not accept medical travel insurance as payment for treatment.
