

Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.      
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad. 
Terrorism in Grenada 
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Grenada, attacks cannot be ruled out. 
Crime 
Most crime in Grenada is non-violent and opportunistic, such as thefts of unattended items or burglaries from villas or cars. There are occasional violent crimes including armed robbery and sexual assault. 
To reduce the risk to yourself and your belongings: 
make sure your accommodation is secure – this also applies if you’re staying on a yacht 
take care when walking alone off main roads
take particular care around large gatherings, including street and beach parties, especially after dark or during the festival season
avoid isolated areas, including beaches, after dark 
only use licensed taxis 
do not carry large amounts of cash or jewellery 
keep valuables and travel documents in your hotel safe or a safety deposit box 
Laws and cultural differences  
Laws on clothing 
It’s illegal for anyone, including children, to dress in camouflage clothing. 
Illegal drugs penalties 
There are severe penalties for all drug offences. Pack all luggage yourself and do not carry anything through customs for anyone else. 
LGBT+ travellers 
Local attitudes towards the LGBT+ community are mostly conservative throughout the Caribbean. Certain same-sex sexual acts are illegal in Grenada. Showing affection in public could receive unwanted and negative attention. It is uncommon for opposite or same-sex couples to show affection in public in Grenada. 
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers. 
Outdoor activities and adventure tourism  
Swimming safety 
Currents can be deceptively strong and not all beaches have lifeguards or warning flags. Get local advice before swimming.
See water safety on holiday from the Royal Life Saving Society.
Transport risks  
Road travel  
If you are planning to drive, see information on driving abroad. You must have a temporary Grenadian driving licence. Your car hire company will help you get one, and you’ll need to show a UK driving licence.  
Hire car companies often have stricter requirements for their customers, such as a year of driving experience, a higher minimum age and holding an international driving permit (IDP). 
Roads can have potholes and speed bumps. Minor roads and roads in rural areas are often narrow and may have blind corners. Drivers do not always use indicators. Pedestrians often walk on the roads. 
Some roads are unlit at night. Road signs and hazards may not be easily visible. 
Do not stop if you’re flagged down by pedestrians. Keep car doors locked when driving. If you have an accident, call the police and do not move the vehicle. 
Taxis and minibuses 
Taxis are not metered. There are standard taxi fares for most destinations. To avoid being overcharged, agree the fare in local currency with the driver before you set off. You can often pay in US dollars as well as East Caribbean dollars. 
If you use private taxis, you can ask the driver to observe speed limits, but minibus drivers often exceed them.  
Extreme weather and natural disasters 
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards.
Hurricanes  
Hurricane Beryl made landfall on the islands of Carriacou and Petite Martinique in July 2024, and there continues to be limited tourist infrastructure as rebuilding efforts continue. If you plan to travel to either island, check with your travel agent or accommodation provider about any disruption you may face.
The hurricane season in the Caribbean normally runs from June to November. Monitor local news and check the warnings on the US National Hurricane Center. 
Earthquakes  
Earthquakes are a risk in the Caribbean and tremors are occasionally felt in Grenada. The US Federal Emergency Management Agency website has advice about what to do before, during and after an earthquake. 
Volcanic eruptions 
Check the alert level of the underwater volcano ‘Kick ‘em Jenny’, located 5 miles off the coast of Grenada. Observe any maritime exclusion zones and follow the advice of the local authorities if there is increased activity or an eruption.
