This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Grenada as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Grenada to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Grenada
Government announced a limited State of Emergency from 25 March. On 10 May the latest set of measures to relax the restrictions was announced. This includes business days being extended to every day, reduction of curfew from 24 hrs to 7pm to 5am daily, and a limited ferry service to Carriacou and Petit Martinique. You should keep up to date with the Emergency Powers Regulations on the Government Information Service Facebook page.
Visas
The Government of Grenada has granted permission for the immigration status of British national visitors to be automatically extended to cover their stay during the period of coronavirus pandemic and/or the period of the current state of emergency without incurring any penalty.
If you wish to stay beyond the period mentioned, you are advised to visit the immigration office to secure the necessary adjustment as soon as Grenada returns to period of normality.
Health
The Ministry of Health Grenada is asking the public to call the COVID-19 enquiries information line on 538 4787 or 458 4787 or the police on 440 3999 if they have any symptoms such as cough fever or difficulty breathing.
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Grenada.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Grenada, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
