Travel is subject to entry restrictions
British Airways are running a flight BA2158 on 30 December from Grenada to Gatwick. See details below on how to book. Government of Grenada has from 20 December suspended all air traffic between UK and Grenada and not allowing entry to anyone with UK travel history of previous 14 days.
Grenada government’s entry requirements and health protocols now include obtaining a negative COVID test result within 72 hours of travel and a Pure Safe Travel Certificate before travel, downloading a contact tracing app, and tests and quarantine on arrival. The protocols can be found on the Ministry of Health website. They are updated regularly and are subject to change at short notice. In planning your trip to Grenada you should read the protocols before your departure and monitor the pages on a regular basis.
See Entry requirements for more information before you plan to travel.
Preparing for your return journey to the UK
If you’re returning to the UK from overseas, you will need to:
provide your journey and contact details before you travel
check if you need to self-isolate on your return
All air traffic between the UK and Grenada has been suspended effective Sunday 20 December until further notice. Travellers should contact their airlines for details. Anyone who has been to the UK within 14 days of travel to Grenada will not be permitted to enter the country.
On the 30 December, BA will operate flight BA2158 departing Maurice Bishop International Airport at 6:30pm arriving at London Gatwick at 8:30am on 31 December. Please note that due to the Government of Grenada’s suspension of air traffic between the UK and Grenada, BA have no flights scheduled after 30 December. Persons in Grenada who have had their return flight cancelled are encouraged to book onto this flight. To book, either go to www.ba.com, call the BA Contact Centre on 1877 767 7970 or speak to their travel agent. Indirect travel from Grenada to the UK is available via Bridgetown using regional airlines Liat, Caribbean Airlines and Inter Caribbean Airways. See Return to the UK
On 21 December, a State of Emergency was declared by the Governor General and the Prime Minister announced new in-country protocols due to a recent spike in COVID cases. These include a curfew from 8pm to 5am effective 21 December, 2020 and ending 3 January, 2021, no social gatherings except weddings or funerals with a 10 person limit, mandatory face covering at all public spaces and restaurants limited to takeaway or delivery services only.
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
If you’re planning travel to Grenada, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCDO’s guidance on foreign travel insurance.
The hurricane season in Grenada normally runs from June to November. You should monitor local and international weather updates from the US National Hurricane Center and follow the advice of local authorities, including any evacuation orders. See Natural disasters
UK health authorities have classified Grenada as having a risk of Zika and Chikungunya virus transmission. For more information and advice, visit the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
Grenada is at risk of Dengue virus especially during the rainy season. You should take steps to avoid being bitten by mosquitoes.
Most visits to Grenada are trouble-free but there have been incidents of crime including armed robbery and sexual assault. See Crime
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Grenada, attacks can’t be ruled out. See Terrorism
Consular support is not available from the British High Commission in St George’s. However, the British High Commission in Bridgetown, Barbados, can provide consular support.
