Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Bermuda on the TravelHealthPro website.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International Travel
LF Wade International Airport is open for commercial flights. All travellers to Bermuda who are arriving from Brazil, India or South Africa or have visited Brazil, India or South Africa in the 14 days before they arrive in Bermuda must, on arrival in Bermuda, quarantine in their accommodation for 14 days. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Bermuda Government has put in place visitor protocols, which include the requirement for both visitors and residents to apply for a travel authorisation. Visit the Government of Bermuda website for more information.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Bermuda.
Accommodation
Resorts, hotels and cottages reopened at the beginning of July 2020. We recommend you check before you travel.
Public spaces and services
From 9 May, Bermuda entered Phase 2 of its Roadmap to Reopening. Restrictions that are currently in place include:
Curfew in place from 10pm to 5am daily
Retail stores to open for in-store customers with a maximum of 20% of the store’s occupancy capacity allowed at one time.
Public and private schools and Bermuda College are open.
Licensed/registered day care centres and home care providers are open.
Weddings, funerals and religious services can take place with some restrictions. For indoor services, the number of persons cannot exceed 20% of seating capacity, up to a maximum of 25 persons. Masks must be worn. For outdoor services, a maximum of 25 persons can attend.
Working from home is no longer mandatory but strongly encouraged.
The mixing of households is not prohibited but is strongly discouraged.
Restaurants and bars are open for outdoor dining, but not indoor dining. Premises must operate table service only, with a maximum of six persons per table, and customers must wear masks when not seated.
Theatres, libraries and galleries are open but cannot exceed 20% capacity, up to a maximum of 25 persons. Masks must be worn.
Recreational boating is allowed until 8pm with no more than 10 persons using the boat (including crew).
Playgrounds and outdoor gyms are open.
Barber shops, beauty salons, spas, massage therapists are prohibited from providing services which require face masks to be removed.
Generally, gatherings are restricted to no more than 10 people, with physical distancing in place.
For further information on restrictions, you should consult the Bermuda Government website. You can find a full list of Bermuda’s coronavirus regulations on the Bermuda Government website.
Bermuda’s bus service is running a more limited service at this time, so you should check what the situation is before taking public transport. The Bermuda Government website provides information on public transport. Non-resident visitors to Bermuda should follow local advice and guidance.
You should check the Bermuda Government website for more information on what to do before travelling to Bermuda.
Healthcare in Bermuda
Medication and medical treatment in Bermuda are very expensive. You should make sure you have travel insurance before travelling. Most types of medication are readily available in Bermuda including UK brands, but you should bring extra medication with you to Bermuda to prepare for unplanned and extended stays.
If you become seriously ill, you should visit A&E in King Edwards VII Memorial Hospital.
Practise physical distancing, good hygiene and mask wearing in all public spaces where there is close contact with others.
Monitor your health and take your temperature twice a day. If your temperature is over 100.4F or 38C, contact the public health team on covid19surv@gov.bm.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Bermuda.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Bermuda
The UK Government has been supplying vaccines to the people of the UK’s Overseas Territories. The Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) is the UK authority responsible for assessing the safety, quality and efficacy of vaccines. MHRA has temporarily authorised under Regulation 174 of Human Medicines Regulations 2012, the Pfizer/BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine for supply in the UK, Crown Dependencies and Overseas Territories for use in Bermuda.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
Further information
If you need urgent assistance, see Emergency Assistance and Entry Requirements
