Entry rules in response to coronavirus (COVID-19)
Entry to Bermuda
Due to the COVID-19 outbreak, all visitors from a country classified by the WHO as having community transmission of COVID-19 (including the UK) will need to apply for a Bermuda COVID-19 Travel Authorisation 1 to 3 days before departure. By applying for a Travel Authorisation, visitors and residents agree to comply with Bermuda’s quarantine and public health laws instructions at all times, including wearing a Traveller Wristband. If you test positive at any time you must self-isolate for 14 days at your accommodation, at your cost. If you are a close contact of someone who tests positive, you must self-isolate for 14 days, at your cost.
Travellers are also required to have a pre-departure PCR test. They will need to receive a negative COVID-19 PCR test no more than 5 days before travel. This applies to adults and children aged 10 and up. Those without a negative pre-departure test will not be able to obtain Travel Authorisation.
Although Bermudian residents are technically permitted to travel without such a test, they will now need to pay $300 for a test upon arrival in Bermuda if they have not received a negative test before travel. Residents who are unable to self isolate at home will also be required to stay in a specified hotel until the results of their day 8 COVID-19 test are confirmed.
Anyone arriving in Bermuda from the UK, or who has travelled through the UK within the 14 days prior to their arrival in Bermuda, must quarantine for 4 days upon arrival. They will need to receive a negative COVID-19 PCR test on or after the 4th day to leave quarantine. From 2nd May, these requirements are extended to all non-immunised travellers (beyond those arriving from, or who have recently been in, the UK). All non-immunised travellers entering Bermuda will need to quarantine on arrival for 4 days, pending a negative Day 4 test. They may only be released from quarantine after receiving a negative result from the Day 4 COVID-19 test.
All travellers to Bermuda who are arriving from Brazil, India or South Africa or who have visited Brazil, India or South Africa in the 14 days before they arrive in Bermuda must quarantine in their accommodation for 14 days. They may only be released from quarantine after receiving a negative result from the Day 14 COVID-19 test. In this case, if the traveller is immunised, they are able to make use of the whole property in which they are staying whilst they are quarantining. However, if the traveller is not immunised they must stay in their room.
You must wear face masks when travelling to the departure airport and practise social distancing at the departure airport.
Upon arrival, you must show a copy of your Travel Authorisation and present a copy of the pre-departure PCR COVID-19 negative test result to health officers on request.
All travellers will undergo PCR COVID-19 testing at the Bermuda L.F. Wade International Airport. It is important that you adhere to the COVID-19 guidance and quarantine in your accommodation until airport test results are ready. Failure to adhere to guidelines could result in a fine of up to $25,000 and/or up to six months imprisonment.
All residents and visitors to Bermuda are required to wear a Travel Wristband for the first 14 days of their arrival in Bermuda. The wristbands will remind travellers to be careful of their movements and to follow the relevant guidance in order to minimise COVID spread. Depending on which is applicable, travellers should consult the Non-Immunised UK Travellers’ First 14 Days in Bermuda guidance, the Non-Immunised Travellers’ First 14 Days in Bermuda guidance, or the Immunised Travellers’ First 14 Days in Bermuda guidance. Removal of the wristband is not permitted and can result in a fine of $500 and home quarantine with an electronic monitoring bracelet. Persons who do not wish to wear the Traveller Wristband will be required to quarantine at their accommodation for 14 days.
From 6th June, the following changes will come into effect:
The time period for a pre-test required for visitors to obtain a travel authorisation will move from 5 days to 3 days
All non-immunised travellers entering Bermuda will be subject to supervised quarantine for 14 days in a designated facility at their own expense. There will be appropriate exceptions from supervised quarantine for minors and the medically vulnerable. All other persons will be required to enter supervised quarantine
All immunised travellers entering Bermuda with a negative pre-test will not be required to quarantine after their negative arrival test, but they will still be required to test on days 4, 8 and 14
Immunised residents entering Bermuda without a negative pre-test will be required to quarantine until their day 4 negative test result.
You should check the Bermuda Government website for more information and to apply for Bermuda Travel Authorisation.
Regular entry requirements
Visas
British passport holders don’t need a visa to enter Bermuda as a visitor, but you must book accommodation before you arrive. Visitors are usually granted entry for up to 90 days. For further enquiries about visas, visit the website of the nearest British Embassy or High Commission, or the Government of Bermuda website.
If you wish to extend your stay while in Bermuda, you must get permission from the Bermuda Department of Immigration before your initial 21 day stay ends. While an extension of stay is not automatic, extensions are normally granted.  
Passport Validity
You must hold a valid passport to enter Bermuda. Your passport should be valid for the proposed duration of your stay. No additional period of validity beyond this is required.
Work permits
If you wish to work in Bermuda, you must secure a job before coming to the island. Your employer will then apply to the Department of Immigration for a work permit, and once this is received you may enter the country to work. You may not seek employment while visiting Bermuda.
For more information, contact Department of Immigration, Government Administration Building, Parliament Street, Hamilton. (Telephone: +1 441 295 5151) www.gov.bm.
Medication
Make sure you carry any medication in the prescribed packaging and bring the prescription. For further information see the website of HM Customs of Bermuda.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents are accepted for entry, airside transit and exit from Bermuda.
