

Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Bermuda
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Bermuda, attacks cannot be ruled out.
Crime
Bermuda has a moderate level of crime. There have been serious incidents, including the use of weapons. If you are a victim of crime, contact the Bermuda Police Service for support.
Protecting yourself and your belongings
Common crimes include:
burglary
mugging
theft of unattended baggage and belongings, including from rental scooters
Take particular care after dark and avoid quieter, darker streets.
See the Bermuda Police Service’s safety tips for tourists.
Laws and cultural differences
Bermuda is a separate legal jurisdiction to the United Kingdom and has its own laws.
Public nudity
There are no nude or topless beaches, and it is illegal for anyone to be topless in public.
Illegal drugs penalties
Do not become involved with drugs of any kind. Penalties for possessing or importing drugs include prison sentences of up to 25 years and heavy fines.
Alcohol laws
It is illegal to drink alcohol in public outside of licensed premises.
Weapons
It is illegal to possess or import weapons, including:
air pistols
catapults
ammunition, including empty magazines
There are severe penalties for breaking weapons laws.
LGBT+ travellers
Same-sex relationships are legal in Bermuda.
Bermuda allows same-sex domestic partnerships. Following a change in the law, same-sex partners can no longer marry – marriages before 14 March 2022 remain valid.
Public attitudes are tolerant but conservative. Some people may not approve of same-sex couples showing affection in public.
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers. 
Outdoor activities and adventure tourism
Swimming safety
There are strong rip currents in many places across Bermuda. Most people in Bermuda do not swim in the sea until after Bermuda Day in late May.
See water safety on holiday from the Royal Life Saving Society.
Transport risks
Tourists are not allowed to drive cars in Bermuda. Buses, ferries and taxis are generally safe and efficient. 
The Bermuda Tourism Authority has information on getting around Bermuda.
Road conditions
Roads are narrow and winding, and traffic may be heavy. Accidents between 50cc scooters and cars are common and have caused serious injuries and deaths. If you hire a scooter, be cautious.
Outside urban areas there are few footpaths and street lighting is limited. Take care while walking, especially at night.
The national speed limit is 35 kilometres per hour but is lower in some urban areas.
Extreme weather and natural disasters
The hurricane season in Bermuda normally runs from June to November. Monitor storms on the Bermuda Weather Service and US National Hurricane Center websites, and follow the advice of the local authorities.
Bermuda’s Emergency Measures Organisation prepares the country for national emergencies.
Emergency broadcast station: FM 100.1 MHz
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards.
