This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Bermuda as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Bermuda to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Bermuda
A state of emergency was declared on 1 April and will remain in place until 30 June. A curfew is in place from 10pm until 6am daily. Schools are closed until further notice.
The seaport is closed to visiting vessels, but essential cargo operations bringing food, medicine, medical supplies and other essential goods will still continue to arrive in Bermuda.
Limited public transport will resume in the week beginning 3 May.
From 2 May no more than 10 people will be allowed at public gatherings.
Non-resident visitors to Bermuda should follow local advice and guidance. We strongly encourage any non-resident visitors on holiday to Bermuda to consider leaving as soon as possible, to avoid difficulties they will face if travel out of the territory and the wider region are further restricted and they are unable to get home.
You should check the Bermuda Government website for more information.
Health
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Bermuda.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
