Travel to Bermuda is subject to entry restrictions
Due to the COVID-19 outbreak, all visitors from the UK will need to apply for Travel Authorisation 1 to 3 days before departure and are required to have a pre-departure COVID-19 PCR test that has been taken within 5 days prior to arrival. Visitors without a negative PCR pre-departure test will not be able to obtain Travel Authorisation. Residents without a valid negative pre-arrival COVID-19 PCR test result must quarantine until they receive results from their day 8 COVID-19 PCR test. If they test positive on day 8, then Bermudian residents should seek advice from their contact tracer. From 2 May, all non-immunised travellers to Bermuda must quarantine in their accommodation for 4 days on arrival
See Entry requirements for more information before you plan to travel.
Returning to the UK
Bermuda is on the amber list for entering England. Check what you must do to enter England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
If you’re planning travel to Bermuda, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCDO’s guidance on foreign travel insurance.
For information about COVID-19 vaccines, see the Coronavirus page.
As Bermuda is a British Overseas Territory, there’s no formal British diplomatic or consular representation. The local authorities deal with all requests for emergency assistance. See Crime and Entry Requirements.
The hurricane season in Bermuda normally runs from June to November. You should monitor progress of storms on the Bermuda weather service and National Hurricane Centre websites and follow the advice of the local authorities. See Natural Disasters.
Most visits to Bermuda are trouble-free, but you should take sensible precautions to protect yourself and your belongings. See Crime.
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Bermuda, attacks can’t be ruled out. See Terrorism.
