Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for St Lucia on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
British Airways and TUI are operating flights between the UK and St Lucia; Virgin Atlantic will have a schedule from 18 December 2021. Flights to and from the United States and Canada are operating, as are some regional flights. All flight schedules are subject to change. Check with the airline or your travel company for the latest information on flight schedules and rules prior to booking.
The inter-island ferry service between St Lucia and Martinique resumed on 1 July 2021.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in St Lucia.
Returning to the UK
Travelling from and returning to the UK
Check what you must do to travel abroad and return to England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
If you plan to pass through another country to return to the UK, check the travel advice for the country you’re transiting. If you will pass through a red list country, book your hotel quarantine package before travelling to the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with any UK government testing requirements. You should contact your accommodation provider and local authorities for information on testing facilities.
If you are staying in a hotel in St Lucia, ask hotel staff before and during your stay about how they can help facilitate any required test to return to the UK. If you are not staying in hotel accommodation, or your hotel cannot arrange an on-premises test, you should arrange to receive a test at one of St Lucia’s approved COVID-19 Respiratory Clinics. Contact details for COVID-19 clinics can be found on the government of St Lucia website.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there. Information on what happens if you test positive for COVID-19 while in St Lucia is available on the St Lucia Tourism Authority website.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in St Lucia
The following measures are in place:
Upon arrival in St Lucia, all travellers must continue the use of face masks during on island-transportation and when in public places
Visitors must adhere to physical distancing measures
Travellers will be subject to screening and temperature checks by port health authorities
Protocols have been established for taxis, to provide safety precautions and separate the driver from guests as an added security measure
Health and safety protocols will be reinforced through the use of signage that includes QR codes which take travellers to a landing page for more information.
There are restrictions to the numbers allowed in stores so queues are possible. Medical facilities will remain open.
Minibuses can only transport up to 12 passengers.
Call 311 for latest information and advice from the Government of St Lucia or see St Lucia Tourism Authority website
Accommodation
The St Lucia Tourism Authority website has updated rules for vaccinated residents, unvaccinated residents, vaccinated non-residents and unvaccinated non-residents, that sets out accommodation and movements permitted in the first 14 days.
Unvaccinated residents must go into state quarantine and send a confirmed booking in advance, or get exemption for home quarantine in advance of travel. Unvaccinated non-residents must stay in COVID-certified accommodation. The website has details of certified activities for this period.
If you have been fully vaccinated you will not be required to go into quarantine on arrival. You must have received your second dose 14 days prior to arrival on the island. All other protocols must be adhered to such as mask wearing and social distancing. Complete list of protocols are on the St Lucia Tourism Authority website.
If you are fully vaccinated and travelling with children aged 5 to17 years and you would like them to also be exempt from quarantine, they will need to be retested on arrival at your cost, and they must remain in quarantine until the results of the test are known. Once the test is negative they will not be required to quarantine.
Amongst the required protocols, hotels must sanitize luggage upon check in; maintain a fully equipped nurses station; observe strict detailed sanitization protocols for housekeeping; maintain required distance with tables for dining; and have hand sanitizer stations installed throughout the property.
Public places and services
The following protocols must be followed:
Everyone arriving in St Lucia must have a negative PCR test taken no more than 5 days before travel to St Lucia
Returning nationals and visitors with a negative PCR test and who are fully vaccinated will not require quarantine. Random testing will be done at all arrival points. Notwithstanding, the CMO retains the power to place visitors in quarantine in order to protect public health
Returning nationals and visitors who are not fully vaccinated must stay in in COVID-19 Certified accommodation and must remain within that property for 14 days unless on an excursion arranged by their hotel or travel agency
All Business and Commercial activities must adhere to the COVID-19 related protocols issued by the Ministry of Health
When possible, employees of all organisations and businesses should work from home and hold all meetings virtually/on online platforms
Faith-based organizations may hold special religious rites including weddings, baptisms and funerals with a maximum of 100 persons in attendance;
Graduations and school leaving ceremonies are permitted based on square footage of the building and in keeping with all established COVID-19 protocols;
Non-compliance with COVID-19 protocols can result in fines. The Government of St Lucia has specifically noted breaches involving guests attempting to leave approved accommodation sites
Additional protocols are in place until Friday 14 January 2022 to combat transmission of COVID:
On Mondays to Saturdays, businesses must close by 9pm and everyone must be in their place of residence by 10pm and not leave before 4am the next day. In addition, on Mondays 13 and 27 December 2021 and Monday 3 January 2022 (local public holidays), businesses must close at 4pm and everyone must be in their place of residence by 5pm
On Sundays everyone must be in their place of residence by 5pm and not leave again until Monday from 4am. There are few exceptions allowed to the above hours, such as medical emergencies
Religious gatherings are restricted according to square footage, and must follow social distancing protocols
Only restaurants and bars that have been authorised to open can have a dine in service for fully vaccinated customers (so carry your vaccination card or certificate with you), and sell alcohol to consume when dining if they have a licence; others may only operate a take away service
Sale of alcohol is only permitted at a licensed supermarket, service station or wholesaler
Social gatherings of up to 100 people (who are fully vaccinated) are allowed, following approval from the Ministry of Health, Wellness and Elderly Affairs
Minibuses (public transport) can carry up to 12 passengers at a time
Sporting activities allowed but restricted according to capacity and protocols
Activities in hotels are permitted on the property during curfew hours.
Health
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in St Lucia.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in St Lucia
Wherever possible British nationals should aim to be vaccinated in the country where they live. We will update this page when the Government of St Lucia announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
St Lucia’s national vaccination programme started in March 2021 using the AstraZeneca vaccine. The Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine also became available in August 2021. British nationals resident in St Lucia are eligible for vaccination. Further information on the vaccination programme is available on St Lucia’s COVID-19 Dashboard.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in St Lucia, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
The St Lucian government has established a dedicated helpline (to access, please call 311) to provide more information on St Lucia’s response to coronavirus. The service operates in English and Creole.
You can also check the latest on the St Lucia Ministry of Health Website and the Government of St Lucia’s facebook page
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
