This page has information on travelling to St Lucia.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport from the UK, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in St Lucia set and enforce entry rules. If you’re unsure how St Lucia’s entry requirements apply to you, contact its UK embassy, high commission or consulate.
All travellers
All travellers must print out the Health Screening Questionnaire from the St Lucia Government website, complete it and bring it with them.
If you’re fully vaccinated
Fully vaccinated travellers and in-transit passengers no longer need to have a test before travel to St Lucia. You must have proof of being fully vaccinated (completed 14 days before travel) and have the certificate at airline check-in, boarding and on arrival in St Lucia.
Find out if you qualify as fully vaccinated in St Lucia on the St Lucia Government website.
Proof of vaccination status
You must present proof that you have been fully vaccinated to enter St Lucia.
St Lucia will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 recovery and vaccination record and proof of COVID-19 vaccination issued in the Crown Dependencies. Your final vaccine dose must have been administered at least 14 days prior to travel. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
If you’re not fully vaccinated
All unvaccinated travellers must have a negative RT- PCR COVID-19 test, taken up to five days prior to entering Saint Lucia. UK NHS tests are not valid for travel. See information on getting a test before entry.
St Lucia accepts the following tests:
nasopharyngeal sample
oropharyngeal sample
nasal sample
anterior nares sample
mid turbinate samples
The following tests are not accepted:
LAMP tests
self-administered tests or home kits
saliva samples
Unvaccinated passengers arriving without tests or with the wrong type of test will be tested on arrival at their own cost and will be required to remain in quarantine until the result of the test is known.
The St Lucia Tourism Authority website has the information that must be on the test certificate and the full protocols for unvaccinated residents and unvaccinated non-residents.
Any symptomatic passengers will be isolated and tested and required to remain in quarantine/isolation at your hotel. If the test is positive, all visitors and nationals will be transferred to a treatment facility until they receive two negative test results and are clinically stable.
If you’ve had COVID-19 in the past year
If you have tested positive for COVID-19 in the 90 days leading up to travel to Saint Lucia and the result of your test for travel is positive, you are required to submit the following three documents:
The results of the first positive test result which led to isolation/quarantine (this must be a PCR test)
A discharge letter from your doctor stating your clearance after isolation, or a NHS Recovery Pass
The most recent Standard PCR test taken no more than 5 days before arrival into country
You can use the UK COVID Pass to demonstrate proof of COVID-19 recovery when entering St Lucia.
Children and young people
Unvaccinated children aged 5 and over will need to have a RT- PCR COVID-19 test, taken up to five days prior to entering Saint Lucia and have a second PCR test on the day after arrival (Non Residents) or at the airport on arrival (Residents). The cost of the test in Saint Lucia will be borne by the traveller. Test results will be received in 24 to 48 hours. Once the test is returned negative, these minors will be afforded the same access as their fully vaccinated parents (travelling companions).
Children 4 years and under do not need to provide any documentation
If you’re transiting through St Lucia
Transiting is when you pass through one country on the way to your final destination.
Transiting through St Lucia is permitted for travellers who are fully vaccinated, or can prove recovery from COVID-19
Exemptions
There are currently no exemptions to the COVID-19 entry requirements.
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
You should check with your travel provider to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Passport validity
If you are visiting St Lucia your passport should be valid for the duration of your stay
Visas
British Passport holders don’t need a visa to visit St Lucia.
On entry, you will be granted a specified period to stay. If you wish to stay longer, you must apply and pay for an extension of stay through the St Lucia Immigration Department.
It is an offence to overstay the entry period or to work without a work permit.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents are accepted for entry, airside transit and exit from St Lucia.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
Departure tax
Departure tax is included in the flight costs.
Returning to the UK
Check what you must do to return to the UK.
