St Lucia’s borders are  closed and international and domestic flights are suspended until further notice. There are currently no commercial options available to leave St Lucia.
We have learned of a possible flight option available for those wishing to depart Saint Lucia. JetBlue will be operating a flight from Saint Lucia (UVF) to New York (JFK) departing at 1:28 p.m. on Wednesday 10 June. Seats can be booked online on the Jet Blue website. Proof of onward connection to the UK is required in order to board, and passengers will need to comply with all US requirements and regulations.
If you cannot leave St Lucia at this time, see advice on staying in St Lucia during coronavirus.
UK special flights
There are currently no further special flights organised from St Lucia.
This travel advice will be updated with further information on any future special flights and other options to leave St Lucia as soon as this is available.
Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British High Commission in St Lucia and Bridgetown, Barbados, on Facebook and Twitter.
Future options
The British High Commission in St Lucia and Barbados is in contact with airlines, the St Lucia authorities and other governments to make sure commercial options for returning to the UK are available as soon as possible.
This travel advice will be updated when departure options become available.
Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British High Commission on Facebook and Twitter.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Your journey home: re-entering the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK. You:
need to provide your journey and contact details up to 48 hours before you’re due to arrive in the UK
are not allowed to leave the place you’re staying for the first 14 days you’re in the UK except in very limited situations (known as ‘self-isolating’)
See also the list of people who are exempt from the border rules.
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) also provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British High Commission on +1 758 452 2482, and select option 2 for consular assistance.
The High Commission cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone. This page will be updated when departure options become available. To get the latest information, sign up for travel advice email alerts
