

Terrorism  
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad. 
Terrorism in St Lucia 
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in St Lucia, attacks cannot be ruled out. 
Crime 
Large-scale events
Most visits are trouble free but robberies and opportunistic crime may occur during the periods of and around large-scale events such as the Saint Lucia Jazz and Arts Festival in May and Saint Lucia Carnival in July.  If you are attending a large-scale event take sensible precautions and be aware of your surroundings at all times. Avoid displaying jewellery or valuable items that may attract attention of criminals. Do not leave your drinks unattended, practice caution at crowded events and have a clear plan to return home safely after attending any events.
Crime and assault
There have been incidents of crime in St Lucia including murder, armed robbery and sexual assault. 
There is a continuing serious risk of homicides, primarily gang related and involving guns. Some incidents have taken place in public areas. 
Take precautions to protect your personal safety: 
make sure your accommodation is secure – this also applies if you’re staying on a yacht 
take care when walking alone off main roads and during late night street parties 
avoid isolated areas, including beaches, after dark 
only use licensed taxis 
do not carry large amounts of cash or jewellery 
leave valuables and travel documents in your hotel safe or a safety deposit box 
Laws and cultural differences  
Laws on clothing 
It’s illegal for anyone, including children, to dress in camouflage clothing. 
Illegal drugs penalties 
There are severe penalties for all drug offences. Pack all luggage yourself and do not carry anything through customs for anyone else. 
LGBT+ travellers 
Attitudes towards the LGBT+ community are mostly conservative throughout the Caribbean. Certain same-sex sexual acts are illegal in St Lucia. Showing affection in public may attract unwanted and negative attention. It is uncommon for opposite or same-sex couples to show affection in public in St Lucia.
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers. 
Outdoor activities and adventure tourism  
Swimming safety 
Currents can be deceptively strong and not all beaches have lifeguards or warning flags. Monitor all beaches carefully and obey any local warnings. 
Transport risks  
Road travel 
If you’re planning to drive in St Lucia, see information on driving abroad.  
Travellers without a St Lucian driving licence must get a temporary driving permit. You will need a: 
driving licence 
passport 
passport size photo of yourself 
54 Eastern Caribbean dollars or 20 US dollars 
You must go in person to the Department of Transport at the Ministry of Infrastructure, Ports, Transport, Physical Development and Urban Renewal at the Union Complex, in Union, Castries. Telephone +1 758 468 4300 for the latest opening hours. 
Some hire car companies can get the permit for you. Ask your hire company if this is a service they can provide. 
Hire car companies often have stricter requirements for their customers, such as a year of driving experience or a higher minimum age. 
Roads can have potholes and speed bumps. Minor roads and roads in rural areas are often narrow, with steep gradients, hairpin bends and blind corners. Drivers do not always use indicators. Pedestrians often walk on the roads. 
Some roads are unlit at night. Road signs and hazards may not be easily visible. 
Do not stop if you’re flagged down by pedestrians. Keep car doors locked when driving. 
Accidents often happen on the main east coast road to and from Hewanorra International Airport. 
In the event of an accident, call the police and do not move the vehicle.  
Taxis and minibuses 
Taxis are not metered. Standard taxi fares exist for most destinations. Agree the fare in local currency with the driver before you set off. You can often pay in US dollars as well as East Caribbean dollars. 
Minibus drivers often drive above the speed limit.  
Extreme weather and natural disasters 
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards.
Hurricanes  
The hurricane season in the Caribbean normally runs from June to November. Monitor local news and check the World Meteorological Organisation and the US National Hurricane Center. 
The hurricane season often brings heavy rains, which may cause flash floods and landslides. After a storm or hurricane, power, communications, transport and water supplies can be disrupted. Even in holiday resorts, utility services cannot be guaranteed. Flights to and from the UK may be delayed or cancelled. 
Earthquakes 
Earthquakes are a risk in the Caribbean and tremors are occasionally felt in St Lucia. The US Federal Emergency Management Agency website has advice about what to do before, during and after an earthquake. 
Volcanoes 
Check the alert level of the underwater volcano ‘Kick ‘em Jenny’, located 5 miles off the coast of Grenada. Observe any maritime exclusion zones and follow the advice of the local authorities if there is increased activity or an eruption. 
Check the alert level for La Soufriere volcano, located on the nearby island of St Vincent. Its eruption in 2021 sent ash over St Lucia, which caused some disruption.
