Coronavirus guidance is being updated.
Read the Prime Minister’s statement for the latest information.

This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in St Lucia as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in St Lucia to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in St Lucia
For information on entering St Lucia, see [Entry Requirements](/foreign-travel-advice/st-lucia/entry-requirements.
St Lucia has announced a national state of emergency, that will remain in place until the end of September.
Effective from 15 June:
Businesses, including restaurants and bars are permitted to recommence operations, in their normal location and within normal business hours, adhering to COVID19 related protocols issues by the Ministry of Health.
Educational institutions remain closed
Some social activities including parties, picnics and receptions are allowed with the established physical distancing and public health protocols.
From 15 June St Lucia is under curfew from 12am to 5am. Everyone should remain in their accommodation during this period.
There are restrictions to the numbers allowed in stores so queues are possible. Medical facilities will remain open. Call 311 for latest information and advice from the Government of St Lucia.
Health
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in St Lucia.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in St Lucia, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
The St Lucian government has established a dedicated helpline (to access, please call 311) to provide more information on St Lucia’s response to coronavirus. The service operates in English and Creole.
You can also check the latest on the St Lucia Ministry of Health Website and the Government of St Lucia’s facebook page
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
