COVID-19 entry restrictions for St Lucia
Before you travel, check the ‘Entry requirements’ section for St Lucia’s current entry restrictions and requirements. These may change with little warning. Monitor this advice for the latest updates and stay in contact with your travel provider.
Travelling from and returning to the UK
Check what you must do to travel abroad and return to England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
If you plan to pass through another country to return to the UK, check the travel advice for the country you’re transiting.
The St Lucia Carnival takes place on 7-19 July 2022. The Carnival attracts many visitors and residents to the numerous events during that period. Ports and roads will be busier than usual. Some roads will be closed for major events.
The Government of St Lucia issued updated COVID-19 protocols, effective from 1 July to 27 August 2022. They are on the St Lucia Government website, and incorporated in this Travel Advice.
If you’re planning travel to St Lucia, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCDO’s guidance on foreign travel insurance.
For information about COVID-19 vaccines, see the Coronavirus page.
Please contact our switchboard + 1 758 452 2484 and select option 2 for consular services. You can also access consular services by completing the webform, by calling the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) in London on +44 (0)207 7008 5000.
Most visits are trouble-free, but there have been incidents of crime including murder, armed robbery and sexual assault. See Crime
The hurricane season normally runs from June to November. You should monitor local and international weather updates from the US National Hurricane Centre and follow the advice of local authorities, including any evacuation orders. See Natural disasters
UK health authorities have classified St Lucia as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For information and advice about the risks associated with Zika virus, visit the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
Cases of Chikungunya virus have been confirmed in St Lucia. You should take steps to avoid being bitten by mosquitoes. See Health
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in St Lucia, attacks can’t be ruled out. See Terrorism
