Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for South Africa on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
In response to the presence of the B.1.351 variant of COVID-19 in South Africa (also known as the Beta variant), travel restrictions are in place on arrivals from South Africa to the UK. All visitors arriving into the UK who have been in or transited through South Africa in the previous 10 days will be denied entry. British and Irish citizens, and third country nationals with residence rights in the UK, may enter the UK and must adhere to strict rules governing arrivals from red-listed countries. If you only hold a visit visa for travel to the UK, you will not be able to enter if you have been in South Africa in the past 10 days.
If you are eligible to enter England from South Africa, you must follow the requirements for quarantining in a hotel on arrival and taking additional COVID-19 tests. You will need a PCR test before you leave South Africa. Different rules apply for arrivals into England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland.
From 1 January 2021 those with residence rights include: holders of Indefinite Leave to Remain; holders of existing leave to enter or remain (i.e those with biometric Residence permits) or an entry clearance/visa that grants such leave e.g. students, workers, etc (excluding visit visas); holders of EU Settlement Scheme (“EUSS”) leave; those who have rights of entry under the Withdrawal Agreements (including returning residents with a right of residence under the EEA Regulations and EEA frontier workers); family members of EEA nationals with rights under the Withdrawal Agreement.
Third countries are frequently updating their rules regarding entry from South Africa. If you are travelling from South Africa, you should check the entry requirements published by that country to make sure you understand any specific restrictions for arrivals from South Africa. Airline schedules may change at short notice, and airlines may have additional requirements in place, for example specifying the type of face mask that must be worn on board. If you have a flight booked, you should read their requirements in detail and check with your airline before travelling.
PCR (polymerase chain reaction) COVID-19 tests are widely available from private medical facilities and some chemists in South Africa. If you need help finding a COVID-19 PCR test provider you should call The National Institute for Communicable Diseases helpline of (+27) 0800 029 999 for advice on possible testing facilities.
Entry and borders
There are additional entry requirements in place during the coronavirus pandemic. See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do before and when you arrive in South Africa.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements. You should contact local authorities for information on testing facilities. See International travel for further information.
Commercial direct flights are operating between South Africa and a dedicated terminal at Heathrow. Different requirements may apply for arrivals into Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
If you think you have COVID-19 symptoms, you should contact your health insurer for advice. You should also call the South African government local emergency hotline (0800029 999) or consult the online advice. South Africa’s detailed guidance on coronavirus testing, self-isolation and contact tracing can be found on their dedicated website, https://sacoronavirus.co.za/. People who test positive are expected to self-isolate in their private accommodation. If you have tested positive for coronavirus and require assistance, please contact us on +27 12 421 7500 and follow the consular options.
Travel in South Africa
Some internal flights are operating.
Public transport is operating with reduced passenger numbers. You must wear a mask if using public transport.
Children aged six years or younger are not required to wear a face mask.
Failure to comply with South African government regulations could result in a fine or arrest.
Accommodation
Hotels, guest houses and private rental accommodation are open, with protective measures in place. Upon arrival at your accommodation, you will normally be subject to a temperature test and asked to complete a health questionnaire. Some accommodation providers will request your travel history. You should contact your accommodation provider for more information.
Public spaces and services
The South African authorities have published COVID-19 guidelines and advice and have introduced a number of measures to limit the spread of the virus. Failure to comply could result in a fine or arrest.
South Africa has introduced a risk-based, five-level approach to lockdown restrictions. Level three restrictions are currently in place across the country.
National restrictions
Level three lockdown restrictions are in place across the country. There is a curfew between 10pm and 4am. All non-essential businesses are required to close by 9pm. Alcohol sales are allowed but for reduced hours. You are legally required to wear a face mask when in public and may face a fine or imprisonment for breaking this rule. You should ensure you are in your accommodation before the curfew begins. Road blocks are used to enforce curfew in some places. International and interprovincial travel are permitted subject to COVID-19 precautions
You should comply with the regulations set out by the South African government.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in South Africa
Wherever possible British nationals should aim to be vaccinated in the country where they live. We will update this page when the Government of South Africa announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The South African national vaccination programme started in January 2021 and British nationals resident in South Africa are eligible for vaccination. The South African Department of Health is managing the process of vaccine procurement, distribution and administration throughout the country. The details can be found on South Africa’s Government website.
At this stage the vaccine is being distributed to healthcare workers, the over 35s and people in communal settings, such as retirement homes. Registration is now open for anyone in this group. Vaccinations for 18 – 35 year olds are expected to begin on 1 September. If you live in South Africa and are in one of those categories, you can register for your vaccine by one of four ways:
Online, at http://vaccine.enroll.health.gov.za
Over the telephone by calling this free number: 0800 029 999
Using your mobile phone by dialling 134832IDnumber# (or if you have no ID number, just dial *134832#)
Using WhatsApp by sending the word REGISTER to 0600123456 You should follow the advice given to the general public to access vaccines in accordance with the phased roll out.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in South Africa, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Healthcare in South Africa
South Africa is currently experiencing a third wave of COVID-19 infections.
If you take regular medication, make sure you can access a repeat prescription if you need to. Most medicines that require a prescription from a doctor in the UK will require a ‘script’ in South Africa (‘script’ is the widely used term in South Africa for ‘prescription’). If you need a prescription in advance, you can visit a local doctor. The doctor might prescribe on the basis of your visit, or they may ask you to obtain an electronic prescription from your medical practitioner in the UK to allow them to write a script. Pharmacies are readily available, with larger pharmacy groups Dis-Chem and Clicks having stores across the country. Some (but not all) of these stores have medical practitioners on site who can write prescriptions.
For contact details for English speaking doctors, visit our list of doctors.
If you think you have COVID-19 symptoms, you should contact your health insurer for advice. You can also call the South African government local emergency hotline (0800029 999) or consult the online advice. There is more information about what to expect if you test positive for COVID-19 under the Coronavirussection.
View Health for further details on healthcare in South Africa.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
The British and Irish Lions Tour to South Africa
The British and Irish Lions are on tour in South Africa in July and August 2021. Fans are not allowed into stadia for the Lions’ matches. See link to latest government restrictions and Entry requirements for more information about currently entering South Africa. Follow Travel Advice for the latest information regarding travelling to South Africa.
