The information on this page covers the most common types of travel and reflects the UK government’s understanding of the rules currently in place. Unless otherwise stated, this information is for travellers using a full ‘British Citizen’ passport.
The authorities in the country or territory you’re travelling to are responsible for setting and enforcing the rules for entry. If you’re unclear about any aspect of the entry requirements, or you need further reassurance, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
You should also consider checking with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
South Africa has introduced entry restrictions in response to the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic, see ‘visas’ section.
Entry rules in response to coronavirus (COVID-19)
Entry to South Africa
South Africa has classified countries into high, medium, and low-risk. A list of high-risk countries is here.
The UK has been classified as a high-risk country. The South African authorities will not grant entry to anyone travelling from a high-risk country for tourism or leisure purposes.
Travellers holding valid long-term visas or permanent residence visas for South Africa do not require permission to enter South Africa.
The following groups can apply to enter South Africa for business purposes:
Business travellers with scarce and critical skills
Diplomats
Repatriated persons
Investors
People participating in professional sporting and cultural events
If you want to visit South Africa for business reasons, you should send your reasons for applying to enter South Africa to Covid19BusinessTravel@dha.gov.za. You should include:
a copy of passport and /or temporary residence visa;
proof of business activities to be undertaken in the South Africa;
proof of travel itinerary;
proof of address or accommodation in the South Africa.
International students are also allowed to return to South Africa to study. You should speak to your local South African High Commission to check the process for returning to South Africa.
You can seek permission from the South African authorities to travel to South Africa for medical reasons or to attend a family funeral. If you need to travel to South Africa for these compassionate reasons, you should send your reasons for applying to enter South Africa to Covid19Exceptions@dha.gov.za. You should include:
a letter clearly explaining why your travel to South Africa is essential and an emergency;
a copy of passports and (if you have them) visas for South Africa;
proof of accommodation while in South Africa.
The processing time for this type of application is 5-10 days.
Unless you have a valid long-term visa, you should not travel to South Africa before approval has been granted by the South African authorities. There have been reports of delays getting approval so you should apply as early as possible to avoid disruptions to your travel plans. The Department of Home Affairs will inform you whether your application has been successful. Unless the Department of Home Affairs tells you that you need a business visa, you should show your email approving your visit when you arrive in South Africa. You will then be given a stamp in your passport allowing you to enter the country.
Whilst the UK is classed as a high-risk country, the Foreign Minister has said that if you are travelling from a low-risk country and your passport indicates that you have spent 10 days or more in a low-risk country before departure, then you will be considered to be arriving from a low-risk country. Visa-free travel has been reinstated for British travellers who have been in a low-risk country for at least 10 days immediately prior to arriving in South Africa. This means that you will be given a stamp in your passport at the border to allow entry into the country.
Anyone travelling to South Africa will be required to produce a paper copy of a negative COVID-19 test not older than 72 hours from the time of departure. We advise that you carry multiple paper copies of your negative COVID-19 test. You should not use the NHS testing service to get a test in order to facilitate your travel to another country. You should arrange to take a private test.
The South African authorities have said you must have travel insurance which should cover a COVID-19 test and quarantine costs in case you display COVID-19 symptoms whilst in South Africa. You will also need to provide proof of accommodation address upon arrival in case you need to self-quarantine at the time of arrival in the country.
Business travellers providing services across the borders between South Africa and the Southern African Development Community are allowed multiple entry subject to producing a certificate of negative COVID-19 test result not older than 72 hours from the time of departure. This certificate is valid for 14 days.
For any questions regarding the process to enter South Africa, you should speak to your local South African High Commission.
Transiting South Africa
If you wish to transit South African international airports, you can do so without a visa, providing you remain airside. However, you should be aware that international flights from South Africa are limited.
The South African authorities are asking anyone transiting via South Africa for a paper copy of a negative COVID-19 test result from within 72 hours of your departure. If you cannot produce a negative COVID-19 test then you may be quarantined for 10 days in government-appointed facilities.
You should speak to your local South African High Commission regarding transiting South Africa by land.
Screening on arrival
Screening processes have been introduced at all major ports of entry, including airports, for arrivals, departures and transit passengers. You should comply with any additional screening measures put in place by the authorities. Passengers will need to provide a paper copy of a negative COVID-19 test not older than 72 hours from time of departure to port authorities when entering the country. Additional screening may include temperature measurements and check on recent travel to affected areas.
Quarantine requirements
If you fail to produce a paper copy of a negative COVID-19 test you will be required to quarantine at a government-appointed facility at your own cost. Self-isolation is not required if you have provided the negative COVID-19 test.
Data collection
The South African government requires you to complete a health declaration form with your details on arrival, including your address and contact information.
Testing on departure
Screening processes have been introduced at all major ports of entry, including airports, for arrivals, departures and transit passengers. You should comply with any additional screening measures put in place by the authorities. Screening may include temperature measurements and check on recent travel to affected areas. If you feel unwell, you should not attempt to travel. Presenting at the airport with symptoms may result in you being sent to a government health facility for quarantine and further testing. You will need to fill out a health form from the South African government.
If you’re currently in South Africa
The South African government has indicated that if you are currently in South Africa on a work, study, or other long-term visa, you can stay, under the terms of that visa. If your visa expired while under lockdown you will be granted an automatic extension until 31 January 2021 and are able to leave the country without being penalised for over-staying. If you leave South Africa, you will not be permitted to return on the same visa, and will need to apply for a new visa.
Regular entry requirements
Passport validity
Your passport should be valid for at least 30 days beyond your intended date of exit from South Africa, in line with South African immigration regulations. However, some immigration officials still request that a passport should have at least 6 months validity on the date of entry to South Africa. To avoid problems at the airport on arrival, you’re advised to ensure your passport meets this requirement.
Your passport should have at least 2 blank pages if you require a visa to enter the country. If you do not need a visa, one blank page will be sufficient.
Travelling with children
There are special requirements for travelling to South Africa with children under the age of 18. Parents wishing to apply for a visa for their child to enter South Africa will need to submit additional documentation. There are different requirements for unaccompanied children entering South Africa.
Check the advisory from the South African Department of Home Affairs for more details, and consult your nearest South African high commission or embassy if you have any questions about these requirements.
Residence permits
If you have Permanent Residency in South Africa, you can leave and re-enter South Africa but must carry valid documentation with you proving your permanent residency rights. When re-entering South Africa you will be asked to produce a paper copy of a negative COVID-19 test not older than 72 hours from time of departure to port authorities. Failure to do so will result in you being sent to a government-appointed quarantine facility at your own cost.
Receipts issued by the Department of Home Affairs for applications to renew a permit will not be accepted by the immigration authorities. For more information, contact the South African High Commission or the South African Department of Home Affairs.
Dual citizenship
If you hold South African citizenship, you must enter and exit South Africa on your South African passport. It is an offence for a South African citizen aged 18 or over to enter or leave the country on a foreign passport.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
South African authorities advise that UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are accepted for entry, transit and exit from South Africa.
If you are planning to enter South Africa using an ETD, you will need to follow the same rules as you would if you were travelling on a full validity passport. See Entry Rules in Response to Coronavirus.
If you are travelling from a low-risk country and your ETD does not have entry and exit stamps to prove this, you should bear in mind that you may need more evidence to demonstrate your travel history on arrival. You should check the requirements with the nearest South African Embassy, High Commission or Consulate.
ETDs should have a minimum of 6 months validity for entry, transit or exit.
Biometric capturing
South Africa has implemented biometric capturing at all ports of entry. This may result in some delays at land borders. You should allow additional time for border crossings.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
