If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 10177 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Coronavirus
The South African authorities have published coronavirus advice and introduced a number of measures to limit the spread of the virus.
Travel Restrictions
Visitors from a number of countries affected by coronavirus, including the United Kingdom, will not be permitted to enter South Africa from 18 March 2020 without a visa.
The United States, Italy, Iran, South Korea, Spain, Germany, and the United Kingdom are considered high risk countries for coronavirus. Travellers who have visited these countries in the last 20 days will be denied a visa to enter South Africa.
The South African authorities have told us that there are no visa restrictions in place for passengers wishing to transit at a South African international airport, if they are not trying to enter South Africa (by passing through immigration).
All ‘non-essential domestic travel’ is discouraged. In response to this, some domestic airlines, including South African Airways and SA Express, have made changes to their schedules. If you have a domestic flight booked, you should check with your airline before travel.
A number of land borders to neighbouring countries have been closed.
Cruise liners will not be permitted to dock in South African ports, after 18 March 2020.
The South African government has said that the cancellation of visas announced by President Ramaphosa on 15 March 2020 does not apply to British Nationals already in South Africa. The South African government has indicated that those who are currently in South Africa having received a stamp on arrival allowing them to stay for 90 days do not need to apply for a visa. The South African government has indicated that those who are currently in South Africa on a work, study or other visa may remain under the terms of that visa. It is not clear whether they will be permitted to re-enter South Africa under the same visa, were they to leave. Ask your nearest South African Embassy or High Commission if you are unsure if this affects you.
The South African government has indicated that British nationals wishing to leave the country will still be able to do so after 18 March. However, you should speak to your airline or tour operator promptly for further information regarding return flights to the UK. If you need further information about entry requirements, contact local immigration authorities or the nearest South African High Commission. You should also check with your airline or travel company for the latest information.
Health screening at Ports and Airports
Screening processes have been introduced at all major ports of entry, including airports, for arrivals, departures and transit passengers. You should comply with any additional screening measures put in place by the authorities. Screening may include temperature measurements and checks on recent travel to affected areas.
If port health officials believe you should be tested for coronavirus, you will be taken to a nearby hospital designated for receiving and testing suspected cases. If tested positive, you may be placed into quarantine or asked to self-isolate depending on your circumstances.
If you are identified as in need of testing, or if quarantine or further treatment is required, you should contact your insurer, and speak to health officials, to understand where the quarantine or treatment should take place. Private hospitals in South Africa are prepared to treat coronavirus, and the standard of care may be higher than in government hospitals. See Local medical care
Our experience suggests that only people who are showing symptoms of coronavirus are able to get a test, at both private and public hospitals. If you need to leave South Africa and you are not experiencing coronavirus symptoms, you are free to do so.
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
You can find more information about cases in South Africa on the TravelHealthPro website.
Other health risks
According to the 2018 UNAIDS Report on the Global AIDS Epidemic South Africa has the biggest HIV epidemic in the world, with 7.1 million people living with HIV. HIV prevalence is high among the general population at 18.9%. You should exercise normal precautions to avoid exposure to HIV/AIDS. There is no reciprocal health care agreement between the United Kingdom and South Africa.
Local medical care
South Africa has a very high standard of private medical care, comparable with the UK. Private health care can be expensive, so make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of medical treatment abroad, and repatriation.
Public medical care varies across South Africa, and standards of treatment and hygiene may not be the same as you would expect in the UK.
Private rehabilitation centres are widely accessible to foreigners visiting South Africa. The British High Commission does not usually contact or visit people who have travelled specifically for medical treatment. Further information on medical tourism is available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre. If you do choose to attend a rehabilitation centre in South Africa, you should:
do extensive research in advance, ensuring you choose a reputable facility.
ensure you have the appropriate visa for your stay.
take out comprehensive travel insurance, which includes medical cover suitable for a rehab stay and your particular circumstances.
Substance use abroad can increase your vulnerability; and although travel does not cause substance dependence, it can provide an opportunity to misuse substances or cause relapse in addiction survivors. More information on the impact of travel and substance use is available on the website of the International Association for Medical Assistance to Travellers
Make sure to organise a contingency plan to cover what will happen if you relapse abroad, if the treatment plan is unsuccessful and/or you require unplanned repatriation to the UK (this plan may need to include additional availability of funds).
