Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

South African airspace is closed to commercial airlines as part of efforts to contain the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19). It is not yet clear when the South African authorities will permit normal commercial flights to start operating again.
A programme of ten UK Government-backed special charter flights operated between 9 and 17 April, based on demand from British travellers wanting to return to the UK. No further UK Government-backed special charter flights are currently planned from South Africa.
The Embassy of Qatar in South Africa in conjunction with Qatar airways are arranging and offering limited special charter repatriation flights from ORT Johannesburg airport to Qatar from where there are currently onward connections to the UK as well as other destinations.
The Qatari Embassy is still working through the process of securing South African government clearance for the flights. Travellers may want to consider booking on to flights scheduled to depart at least 72 hours in the future so as to allow the Qatari embassy time to secure clearance. Prior to travelling to the Assembly Point designated bv the Qatari Embassy, travellers should contact Qatar Airways directly to check if their flight will depart as stated on their ticket. Qatar Airways are responsible for all bookings. The British High Commission in South Africa will provide those who are permitted to travel on to the UK with a laissez-passer letter which allows them to travel to the Assembly Point in South Africa ahead of the flight. The British High Commission in South Africa will be told by Qatar Airways who has booked a ticket, and the British High Commission in South Africa will then contact those travellers directly to issue them with laissez-passer letters.
We do not recommend that anyone who would face a very long road journey, for example from Cape Town, books tickets for these flights, given the difficulty of reaching the designated Assembly Point in time, particularly with a national curfew in effect between 2000 and 0500.
Bookings and payment for tickets should be made directly via the Qatar Airways website or by calling +27 11 267 7700. Passengers should wear masks. These and any further details, including at which Assembly Point and when passengers should meet there ahead of the flights, should be confirmed with Qatar Airways prior to travelling. Those intending to travel onwards to the UK would need to meet UK immigration requirements. In line with the requirements of the Qatar authorities, travellers would also need to have an onward flight booked to the UK for the same day they arrive in Qatar, and they would be required to remain at the airport prior to that flight. For further advice concerning travel to or via Qatar please check UK Travel Advice or ask Qatar Airways directly. All further detail concerning the flights should be requested from Qatar airways directly or from the Embassy of Qatar in South Africa.
The British High Commission is currently gathering information on British nationals who were planning to return to the UK after 1 May. You can register your details here. You should continue to follow our Travel Advice for the latest information about returning to the UK.
Future options
It is not yet clear when the South African authorities will permit normal commercial flights to operate again. We will announce any resumption of commercial flights here. In the meantime, you should continue to follow any regulations set out by the South African government during the lockdown.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option only available to British nationals and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK.
Accommodation
Those hotels which still have international guests should remain open until their guests are able to leave South Africa. You should ensure you have accommodation for the duration of the lock down, or until you have a confirmed ticket on a special charter flight.
We have published a list of hotels that have told us they can accept British people. We will keep this list up to date.
You can also ring a national hotline: +27 (0)800 029 999 to speak to a professional who will assess your individual need and advise on next steps.
If you are staying in the Western Cape, you can contact the Western Cape provincial government who may be able to assist in identifying new accommodation, using the following numbers:
Cape Town, Overberg and Winelands and West Coast: +27 (0)82 554 2010
Garden Route and Karoo: +27(0)82 972 2507
Cape Town CBD: +27(0)21 487 6552
See more information and advice about staying where you are if you cannot return to the UK.
Restrictions during the lockdown
Land borders to neighbouring countries are closed except for trade.
Port entry for UK visitors is banned. Cruise liners and smaller leisure vessels are not permitted to dock in South African ports. If you are booked onto a cruise scheduled to stop in South Africa, you should speak to your operator or travel agent.
Your journey home
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Further information
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
