

Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in South Africa
Terrorists are likely to try to carry out attacks in South Africa.
The main threat is from individuals who may have been inspired by terrorist groups, including Daesh, and who may carry out ‘lone actor’ attacks.
Attacks could be indiscriminate and could target public spaces and places visited by foreigners, such as:
tourist sites
shopping centres
high profile events
crowded places
Stay aware of your surroundings, keep up to date with local media reports and follow the advice of local authorities.
Israel and the Occupied Palestinian Territories conflict
The current conflict in Israel and the Occupied Palestinian Territories has led to heightened tensions around the world. Terrorist groups, such as Al-Qaida and Daesh, have called on their supporters to carry out terrorist attacks in response to the conflict. The conflict could also motivate individuals to carry out attacks. Terrorist attacks could target Jewish or Muslim communities, or the interests of Israel and its allies. Attacks could also be indiscriminate and happen without warning.
Political situation
There are regular protests and demonstrations in South Africa which can turn violent at short notice. Violence could affect participants and bystanders anywhere in the country. 
Avoid areas where protests, demonstrations or marches are taking place, especially in city centres and townships. Do not cross protester roadblocks. This could provoke a violent reaction. Monitor local and social media for updates, including local radio. Where possible stay on main roads. Be aware GPS could lead you to less secure areas. 
Protests can happen at land border crossings, particularly on the Mozambique border. This may delay you being able to cross the border or cause the crossing to be closed at short notice. Seek local advice, monitor the local media and FCDO’s travel advice for Mozambique before travel.
Crime
There is a high crime rate in South Africa, with incidents including:  
violent muggings
snatching jewellery and valuables
carjacking
‘smash and grab’ attacks on vehicles
house robbery
rape and sexual assault
murder
Cape Town airport road attacks 
There have been recent attacks and violent crime on secondary roads to and from Cape Town airport. 
You should: 
stay on the M3 and N2 (rather than the R300)
stay on ‘airport approach road’ (exit 16 on the N2) rather than taking the Borcherd’s Quarry Road leading to Nyanga
make a journey plan in advance and discuss it with a trusted local contact
avoid following GPS navigation routes that take you away from main roads
Table Mountain National Park attacks 
There have been recent violent attacks and muggings against hikers and foreign tourists in Table Mountain National Park, including on Lion’s Head and Signal Hill. 
You should: 
avoid quieter areas of the park, especially during early mornings and evenings
stay on busy, marked trails
go on popular days such as weekends
not hike alone
Some Cape Town residents coordinate group hikes on social media, for example The Hikers Network and Facebook. The Hikers Network offer a free safety tracking service. 
Crime locations 
Violent crime can take place anywhere, including in tourist destinations and transport hubs. Most violent crimes occur in townships located on the outskirts of major cities, central business districts or in isolated areas. The threat is higher when it is dark. 
There have been violent incidents involving tourists at popular tourist locations. There are usually security personnel in the main tourist areas who can assist tourists. However, policing and security can be limited, so always be cautious. 
Avoid isolated beaches and picnic spots. Do not walk alone in remote areas or on beaches when deserted, especially when it is dark. 
Protecting yourself and your belongings 
To protect your personal safety: 
do not display valuables or leave them in your car
take safe and reliable transport – see Public transport
stay alert and be wary of people who approach you
do not walk around after dark
travel with friends if possible and make sure someone knows your plans
only go to a township with a responsible and reliable tour guide
consider removing expensive-looking jewellery
be aware that resisting a robbery can lead to a violent response, including use of weapons, that can result in physical injury
Solo and women travellers 
Solo and women travellers have received unwanted attention and have been assaulted. Read our advice for ‘Solo and independent travel’ and ‘Advice for women travelling abroad’.
Fraud and scams
Be alert to the risk of scams, including through business or job opportunities, visa services or offers of romance and friendships, including on dating apps.
Card skimming and confidence scams are widespread. There has been an increase in cybercrime and internet scamming. Do not meet up with or send money to someone you do not know.
If you use a visa agent, be wary of fraud. Always follow the correct visa application process through the Department of Home Affairs. Fraudsters often use embassy or other government details – check they are authentic before responding. Visa scams come in many forms and can cause great financial loss.
Criminals may pose as officials for financial or personal gain. If in doubt, ask to see their ID and move into a safe, public and open space. Police officers must carry their appointment certificate. If you have any concerns, call:
police on 10111
emergency services on 112 (mobile only)
Nightlife and dating
Criminals use dating apps to rob, rape or sexually assault victims. Be cautious using dating apps and meet in well-lit, public places. Always tell friends or family your plans. 
There have been instances of drink spiking involving robbery and sexual assault with both male and female victims. Do not leave drinks unattended or accept drinks from strangers. If you think your drink has been spiked, seek immediate medical help and contact the police.
ATMs and money exchanges
Crime around ATMs and money exchanges is common. You should: 
hide your PIN
be wary of strangers offering to help when your card does not work, or trying to lure you to an ATM
only change large sums of money in banks or secure shopping malls, not in busy public areas – do be aware, however, that people exchanging large amounts of cash have been followed and robbed
Criminal kidnap 
The risk of kidnap is increasing throughout South Africa. Criminals generally kidnap people for financial gain.  
In recent years, foreign nationals, including British nationals, have been kidnapped. British nationals can be seen as wealthier than locals and may be at particular risk of kidnap for financial gain. There have also been reports of young children being kidnapped from shops, shopping malls and beaches. Stay vigilant and be aware of your surroundings.
To reduce your risk:
avoid wearing expensive clothing or jewellery, particularly in public
be vigilant, especially at night
There have been reports of long queues leading to armed robberies and express kidnappings close to the Lebombo border crossing with Mozambique at Nelspruit, Mpumalanga. Express kidnappings are short-term, opportunistic abductions aimed at extracting cash from the victim. Victims may be held hostage for up to several days while criminals use stolen bank or credit cards. These often take place after dark. Consider whether you can use a different crossing or only approach the border during daylight hours. 
Airport crime
Crime in and around airports includes robbery and theft of baggage and valuables. Criminals have followed people from OR Tambo International Airport in Johannesburg to their destinations and then robbed them, often at gunpoint.
You should:
be careful in and around the airport
use main roads to and from airports
go through public areas quickly
avoid isolated areas
arrange for your hotel or tour operator to meet you if possible
go to your connecting flight quickly if in transit
consider vacuum-wrapping luggage
keep valuables in your carry-on luggage
avoid dropping off your rental car at night
Vehicle crime
Carjacking and robbery are common, particularly after dark and around traffic lights, junctions, petrol stations and driveways.
Thieves often break car windows and take valuables while cars are waiting at junctions.
Criminals sometimes force vehicles, including tourist buses, to stop so that they can rob passengers. Common tactics include throwing spikes (sometimes hidden in plastic bags), stones or glass in front of vehicles. If criminals target your vehicle, drive to a safe place, or as far as possible, if it is safe to do so.
Criminals may pose as police and use ‘blue lights’ on plain (often white) vehicles to stop motorists and steal the vehicle. If you are suspicious, do not stop and continue to a police station, petrol station or other place of safety to call the police.
Do not pick up strangers or stop to help apparently distressed motorists. Continue driving and report the incident to the police.
If you are involved in a carjacking, stay calm and surrender your valuables and your vehicle if asked. Do not resist as this could lead to a violent reaction.
To reduce your risk while driving:
check your route for any hazards or disruptions before you set off
use a GPS, but do not follow routes into less secure areas – generally smaller roads
check whether car rental companies have any safety tips
stay on main roads and park in well-lit areas
avoid stopping for long periods
lock your car when you leave it, and manually check the doors have locked
keep your windows closed, especially at junctions
keep valuables out of sight, ideally in the boot
use ‘smash and grab’ film on windows – ask hire car firms for this
make sure you can see the tarmac and the tyres of the car in front of you when you stop your vehicle, giving you space to escape if you need to
Taxi app crime 
Scammers target people using taxi apps in major cities.  
Make sure you:  
use an internationally recognised service
book the taxi in the app
check the vehicle registration and ID before entering
do not wait in the street
do not display your phone or valuables
ask the driver to close rear windows and lock doors if you cannot do so yourself
check the taxi app for extra security features, and consider using them
Be wary of unregulated drivers posing as Uber or other taxi app drivers, especially at airports. If you book a taxi, wait in a designated taxi pick-up area, if there is one.
Tensions between taxi app and metered taxi drivers can lead to armed violence, particularly around Gautrain stations and at airports. Strikes and protests by taxi app drivers take place, sometimes with attacks against drivers not seen to be participating. Passengers have also faced harassment or violence. Apps generally warn about high-risk areas, but be cautious using these services. During strikes use alternative reliable private transportation. 
Power cuts
In South Africa there have been nationwide power cuts caused by shortages. Whilst there has been a significant reduction in planned power cuts (‘loadshedding’), they can still happen and affect:
private accommodation, including hotels and airbnbs
availability of mobile phone networks and wifi
shops
banks and ATMs
public lighting
traffic lights
security systems such as alarms and electric fencing
petrol stations
water
There may be higher risk of crime where security systems or public lighting do not work.
You should: 
ask your accommodation provider how they manage planned power cuts
check for planned cuts on the Eskom website or ‘loadshedding’ apps
follow the advice of local authorities if there are water restrictions, including bans on drinking tap water
Preparing for power cuts
To prepare for long power cuts:
write down emergency contact numbers
plan how you’ll let relatives and friends know where you are
carry a power bank with extra charging cables
carry a torch or other portable lighting
ensure you have enough medicine and first aid supplies
find nearby safe places that may have back-up power such as hotels, hospitals and police stations, in case you need help
read our advice If you are affected by a crisis abroad
Water shortages 
Across parts of South Africa, there have been water shortages. Follow the advice of local authorities if there are water restrictions in place.
Laws and cultural differences
Personal ID
Always carry a copy of your passport photo page and the page with your visitors permit or residence permit for South Africa. South African officials may ask for ID and proof of residence at any time. Keep your passport in a hotel safe or another secure location. Do not carry it with you unless you need it for official identification.
Illegal drugs and cannabis laws 
Illegal drugs, including cannabis, carry severe penalties. Using cannabis in private is legal. Public and private use of cannabidiol oils (CBD oils) is also legal.  
You should expect a long jail sentence and heavy fines for possessing, using or smuggling illegal drugs, including when transiting through the airport.  
Airports in South Africa have excellent technology and security for detecting illegal items. This is also used to scan the baggage of transiting passengers.
LGBT+ travellers
Same-sex sexual activity is legal. It is illegal to discriminate based on sexual orientation. See our advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Wildlife, animal products and souvenirs
It is illegal to buy, sell, kill or capture any protected wild animal or trade any of its parts without a permit. Trading ivory or rhino horn is banned. Anyone caught buying or trafficking banned goods will be prosecuted.
Outdoor activities and adventure tourism
Do not take unnecessary risks when participating in outdoor activities and adventure tourism. Health and safety standards vary globally and may not be the same as in the UK.
Where possible, insist on a receiving a safety briefing.
Hiking and walking 
To stay safe while hiking, South African National Parks (SANParks) advise you: 
save emergency numbers before you hike
not hike alone – go in groups of 4 or more if possible
choose a route that matches your ability
stay on busy, marked trails on popular days such as weekends
plan your route and allow enough time
carry water, food and a fully charged phone
dress appropriately and prepare for weather changes
tell someone your route and when you expect to return
Table Mountain National Park
Some Table Mountain trails are strenuous, and mountain rescuers get regular calls to help hikers. Know your limits, research possible trails and select a route suitable to your fitness level. Check SANPARKS for the latest guidance including hazards such as wildfires. Always check the availability of the cable car if you are planning to use it.  
See Crime for information on violent attacks in Table Mountain National Park.  
Kruger National Park
After a violent attack killed a tourist in the Kruger National Park, SANParks advise against using the Numbi gate. There have been protests and violent incidents on the R538 road leading to the gate.
You can fly directly to Kruger National Park from Johannesburg, Cape Town and Durban. Many people also choose to take a private tour or drive overland themselves.
If you stay outside the park, contact your lodge in advance to find out if any disruptions will affect your trip. See SANParks news.
Swimming safety
Beach conditions and local safety measures vary. Every year, many people drown due to strong sea currents. Ask for a life jacket if you participate in water sports.
On beaches with no equipment or warning signs, speak to local people who know the conditions. If in doubt, do not enter the water.
On busier tourist beaches:  
only swim between the red and yellow flags
read the warning signs
follow instructions from lifeguards
The South African National Sea Rescue Institute (NSRI) has information about rip currents. 
In an emergency, call:
112 emergency services (mobile only)
+27 87 094 9774 - NSRI emergency line
Seals and other marine animals can bite. Take care near seals when you are swimming or by the sea where they are found. Rabies has been detected in seals along the Cape Peninsula coastline. If you are bitten seek immediate medical attention and notify the authorities.
Transport risks
Road travel
If you are planning to drive in South Africa, see information on driving abroad. 
You can use a UK photocard driving licence to drive in South Africa for up 12 months. If you still have a paper driving licence, get the 1968 version of the international driving permit (IDP) before you travel, or update to a photocard licence.
If you become a permanent resident, exchange your UK licence for a South African licence within 12 months of getting your residency. See living in South Africa. 
Hire car companies often have stricter requirements for their customers, such as a year of driving experience and a higher minimum age. 
See Crime for advice on travel to and from the airport, vehicle crime and safety at border crossings. 
Air Travel
There have been travel delays and disruptions at airports due to power outages and refuelling disruptions. Check the Airports Company South Africa (ACSA) ‘X’ feed for the latest updates.
Driving rules and standards
Driving standards vary in South Africa. Fatal road accidents are common, particularly around weekends and major public holidays.
Drive cautiously and: 
obey speed limits
avoid unfamiliar areas and be extra vigilant at night
keep fuel levels above half a tank to avoid running out
On highways, drivers overtake or undertake in any lane including the hard shoulder.
On single-lane roads, trucks and slower vehicles sometimes use the hard shoulder to allow faster vehicles to overtake.
At most intersections, including 4-way stops and where traffic lights are out of service, the first vehicle to arrive generally has priority. Small roundabouts (called circles) are treated the same as a 4-way stop.
On larger roundabouts, you should give way to the right, although drivers often do not do this.
Road conditions
Road conditions are mostly very good but some roads in remote areas are less well maintained and may have potholes.
If you are travelling to a lodge in a remote area, check road conditions with the lodge management as you may need a car with good ground clearance.
If you rent a car, save the emergency roadside assistance numbers. Download an offline map if you do not have access to a GPS.
Pedestrian safety  
Pedestrian deaths account for a high number of road deaths every year in South Africa. This can happen anywhere, and the risk is higher if you cross a road away from marked crossings (jaywalking). If possible, cross at a marked crossing when it’s safe to do so. 
Public transport
Transport with a greater risk of theft, violence and unreliable service includes: 
minibus taxis
Metrorail train services
long-distance public train and coach services
Generally safer and more reliable transport includes: 
Gautrain between Johannesburg, Pretoria and OR Tambo International Airport
MyCiTi bus in Cape Town (central business district and Atlantic Seaboard)
airport shuttle buses through internationally recognised hotels
internationally recognised taxi apps where bookings are confirmed through the app
To reduce your risk: 
do not walk to or from Gautrain stations after dark
do not travel to townships by MyCiTi bus – there have been violent attacks in Khayelitsha
Extreme weather and natural disasters
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards.  
Flooding
Heavy rainfall often causes widespread flooding. There is a year-round risk of flooding across South Africa. Always check weather reports and news for hazards before you start your journey. For alerts and forecasts, see the South African Weather Service. 
Wildfires
Wildfires can happen in rural and urban areas during hot and dry weather including Cape Town and in the Table Mountain National Park. Follow evacuation orders if requested. If you see a wildfire, move to a safe place away from vegetation and smoke. If you are inside a building or a car and judge it is safe to stay there, close all vents and windows.
