This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in South Africa, if you are unable to return to the UK.
You should comply with the measures put in place in South Africa to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in South Africa
The South African authorities have published coronavirus advice and have introduced a number of measures to limit the spread of the virus. Failure to comply could result in a fine or arrest.
On 23 April, President Ramaphosa announced that the South African government would be introducing a new risk-based, five-level approach to changes to lockdown restrictions. On 1 June, South Africa moved to level 3 (from level 4). The level of restriction in place may differ by province and district. You should follow advice from the local authorities about what restrictions apply where you are.
Only essential travel is permitted between provinces. Internal flights are now allowed, although air travel for recreational, leisure or tourism purposes is prohibited. You must wear a mask if using public transport, which will operate with strict hygiene requirements and reduced passenger numbers.
Walking, running and cycling are allowed between 6 am and 6 pm, though not in groups. There are strict rules regarding gatherings of people. Everyone must wear a cloth face mask when in public.
You should continue to comply with any regulations set out by the South African government during the lockdown. You can find more details on the five-level approach to lockdown restrictions on the South African Resource Portal.
Visas
Since the introduction of restrictions to international flights, the South African authorities have announced that people who exceed their 90 day stay, or the validity of their temporary residence visas, as a result of travel restrictions linked to COVID-19 will not be penalised as over-stayers when they depart. See Entry requirements
Accommodation
You should make sure you have accommodation for the duration of the lock down, or until you have a confirmed ticket on a special charter flight.
Those hotels which still have international guests should remain open until their guests are able to leave South Africa. See the list of hotels that have advised they can accept British people.
You can also call a national hotline: +27 (0)800 029 999 to speak to a professional who will assess your individual need and advise on next steps.
If you are staying in the Western Cape, you can contact the Western Cape provincial government who may be able to assist in identifying new accommodation, using the following numbers:
Cape Town, Overberg and Winelands and West Coast: +27 (0)82 554 2010
Garden Route and Karoo: +27(0)82 972 2507
Cape Town CBD: +27(0)21 487 6552
Health
If you take regular medication, make sure you have a sufficient supply for the full duration of South Africa’s lockdown period. Pharmacies are classified as an essential service, and will remain open. Most medicines that require a prescription from a doctor in the UK will require one in South Africa. If necessary, you should obtain an electronic prescription from your medical practitioner to enable a local doctor to write one. Ask your insurer, or your accommodation provider to help you find one. See Health
Private hospitals in South Africa are prepared to treat coronavirus, and the standard of care may be higher than in government hospitals. Our experience suggests that only people who are showing symptoms of coronavirus are able to get a test, at both private and public hospitals.
For contact details for English speaking doctors, visit our list of doctors.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in South Africa.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in South Africa, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, you should contact your local British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
