Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Turks and Caicos Islands on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Turks and Caicos Islands and read the new TCI Assured guidance in response to the Covid-19 pandemic.
Returning to the UK
Travelling from and returning to the UK
Check what you must do to travel abroad and return to England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
If you plan to pass through another country to return to the UK, check the travel advice for the country you’re transiting. If you will pass through a red list country, book your hotel quarantine package before travelling to the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements. You should contact local authorities for information on testing facilities.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
From 1 September 2021, any fully vaccinated tourist testing positive whilst in TCI must self-isolate at their own expense for a period of ten days (10) and undergo a COVID-19 mandatory test on day seven (7) prior to being released.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Turks and Caicos Islands
All travellers to Turks & Caicos aged 16 and above must be fully vaccinated and all travellers aged 10 and above (including those fully vaccinated) will be required to upload on to the TCI Assured Portal (TCI Assured guidance) one of the following professionally administered test results for entry to the TCI:
Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction Tests result (RT-PCR);
Nucleic Acid Amplification test result (NAA);
RNA or molecular test results; or
an Antigen test result
Tests and results need to have been completed within three days of the date of arrival into Turks and Caicos.
Please also note that each person travelling will need to upload their information on to the TCI Assured Portal
Health screening is in place at all seaports and airports.
NHS vaccine cards and/or a letter from your GP or professional body where you were fully vaccinated will be accepted as proof of your vaccination in the UK.
A number of regulations are in place in the Turks and Caicos Islands. Any contravention of these regulations is considered an offence, which may result in a fine of up to $1000, or imprisonment of up to three months. Regulations include:
With effect from 5am on Wednesday 1 December 2021 until 28 February 2022, unless otherwise stated:
Face coverings are required to be worn in all public places, including inside buildings such as supermarkets, shops, restaurants, hotels, holiday accommodations and government buildings. A US$550 fine will be imposed on individuals for not wearing a face mask/covering
Taxi operators and community cabs are permitted to carry up to 10 passengers subject to adherence of health protocols, and there being no more than two separate families on board.
Regulations vary dependant on the venue and type of event. Please check with venue management and event organisers for up to date regulations.
More detailed information on local measures in place is available on the TCI Government website.
Accommodation
Hotels and private villas have re-opened across the Turks and Caicos Islands in line with the travel and movement restrictions noted in the “Travel in Turks and Caicos Islands” information above. You are advised to contact the hotel direct to inform yourself on Covid-19 specific measures and requirements they have in place.
Healthcare in Turks and Caicos Islands
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Turks and Caicos Islands.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
If you think you have COVID-19 symptoms call the Coronavirus hotline on 333-0911 or 2329444. Call 911 to get medical attention immediately. Do not go to a doctor’s office, pharmacy or hospital.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Turks and Caicos Islands
The UK Government has been supplying vaccines to the people of the UK’s Overseas Territories. The Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) is the UK authority responsible for assessing the safety, quality and efficacy of vaccines. MHRA has temporarily authorised under Regulation 174 of Human Medicines Regulations 2012, the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine for supply in the UK, Crown Dependencies and Overseas Territories for use in Turks and Caicos Islands.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further Information
Further information and COVID-19 guidance for the Turks and Caicos Islands is available from the Ministry of Health. If you need urgent assistance, see Emergency assistance
