This page has information on travelling to the Turks and Caicos Islands.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport from the UK, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in the Turks and Caicos Islands (TCI) set and enforce entry rules. If you’re unsure how Turks and Caicos Islands’ entry requirements apply to you, contact its UK embassy, high commission or consulate.
All travellers
All visitors aged 18 and above are required to be double vaccinated on arrival and at least 14 days must have passed since your second dose of an approved vaccine. Proof of vaccination is required. Unvaccinated visitors can only enter TCI if they are unable to take a COVID-19 vaccination on medical grounds and must have a letter attesting to this signed by a doctor or GP. There are no other exceptions, including if you have already had COVID-19.
With effect from 1 May 2022, visitors are no longer required to take a COVID-19 test before arrival, upload information to the TCI Assured Portal or provide insurance covering COVID-19 medical costs. The wearing of face masks is not obligatory across the Islands, however some business may ask you to do so.
If you’re fully vaccinated
All visitors aged 18 and above will need to provide evidence of double vaccination against COVID-19 on arrival to the TCI. At least 14 days must have passed since your second dose of the vaccine and the vaccine must be approved by the TCI Ministry of Health. The list of approved vaccines can be found on the website of the TCI Ministry of Health. You will be denied entry to the TCI if you cannot provide proof of vaccination.
There is no testing or quarantine requirement on arrival. Visitors are however, fully responsible for the cost of quarantine/isolation, hospitalisation or medical repatriation in the event they test positive during their stay. For more information on TCI’s COVID-19 policy, visit the website of the TCI Ministry of Health. The wearing of masks is recommended but is a personal choice.
Proof of vaccination status
The Turks and Caicos Islands will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 recovery and vaccination record and proof of COVID-19 vaccination issued in the Crown Dependencies. Your final vaccine dose must have been administered at least 14 days prior to travel. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
If you’re not fully vaccinated
If you are not able to take a COVID-19 vaccine due to medical reasons, then written and signed proof from a medical professional, clearly stating that you are medically exempted from taking the vaccine, must be submitted to the Ministry of Health at vaccineexemptions@gov.tc. You should submit your request, with all supporting documentation, at least 2 weeks prior to travel. This is in order to allow sufficient time for review by the Ministry of Health. On arrival, individuals must present evidence of the approval of the medical exemption from the Ministry of Health.
Other exemptions to mandatory vaccination include crew members of a cargo/commercial aircraft or cargo ship arriving for work and expected to remain for less than 24 hours; crew members of air ambulances, which includes any medical personnel on board; persons offering to provide emergency aid in times of crisis and persons who have written permission from the TCI Chief Medical Officer.
There are no exemptions to the COVID-19 vaccination requirement for visitors to TCI (except on medical grounds) and this extends to compassionate or religious reasons. Non vaccinated individuals without a medical exemption will be refused entry.
If you’ve had COVID-19 in the past year
If you’re not fully vaccinated but have tested positive for COVID-19 in the last year you are unable to enter the TCI. There are no exemptions for natural immunity.
Residents of the TCI
Residents who are not double vaccinated are required to undergo quarantine for a period of seven days on arrival. A negative test is required at the end of quarantine for release. If the test is positive, the individual must isolate in accordance with the Ministry of Health’s guidelines.
Children and young people
Children aged 17 and under are not required to be double vaccinated to enter the TCI.
If you’re transiting through the TCI
Transiting is when you pass through one country on the way to your final destination.
Transiting through the TCI at the airport is permitted for travellers regardless of vaccination status.
Exemptions
Compassionate reasons
There are no compassionate exemptions to the TCI’s policy requiring double vaccination to enter the country.
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
Passport validity
You must hold a valid passport to enter Turks and Caicos. Your passport should be valid for a minimum period of 6 months from the date of entry into Turks and Caicos.
Visas
If you need further information about entry requirements, contact the local immigration authorities. You should also check with your airline or travel company for the latest information.
Visas are not required if you have a valid UK Passport. The Turks and Caicos Islands Immigration department will normally give you permission to stay for up to 90 days. You will need a permit to work on any of the islands.
For more information on visa requirements, visit the website of the Turks and Caicos Islands Ministry of Border Control and Employment.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents are accepted for entry, airside transit and exit for Turks and Caicos Islands.
Customs regulations
There are restrictions on the import and export of agricultural, food and marine products. Before arrival, all flight passengers will be asked to complete a form providing details of products they are bringing into the country. This form should be handed to a customs official on arrival.
There are no restrictions for travellers on the import of cameras, film or sports equipment. To bring in firearms of any type (including spear guns and Hawaiian slings), you will need written approval from the Commissioner of Police.
Travelling with medicines or any controlled drugs must be accompanied by a doctor’s prescription. Keep all medication in original packaging to avoid confusion and questioning at ports of entry.
