At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each overseas territory page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in overseas territories. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the local territory government.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Coronavirus
Due to the ongoing outbreak of coronavirus (COVID-19) around the world, travel restrictions have been put in place at all airports and seaports by the Turks and Caicos Islands Government. An entry ban is in place on all non-residents travelling from, or who have visited highly-impacted countries within the past 21 days, including China, Iran, South Korea, Italy, Singapore, Macau, Japan, Austria, Belgium, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Monaco, San Marino and the Vatican City. Please note that this list is not extensive and is being regularly reviewed by the Turks and Caicos Island Government. All travellers entering the Turks and Caicos Islands are subject to screening at airports.
Travellers from countries or areas specified as highly-impacted, should check their ability to gain entry to the Turks and Caicos Islands before travel.
Returning non-symptomatic residents will be required to self-quarantine for a period as advised at the time of return. Residents arriving in the Islands after travel to, from or through an infected country will be subjected to screening and passenger tracing at port of entry, subjected to clinical examination at port of entry, and quarantined for a period of fourteen days as deemed necessary. Further information on risks to travellers, avoidance measures, symptoms and how to self-quarantine is available at TCI Ministry of Health
We strongly encourage any non-resident British visitors on holiday to the Turks and Caicos Island to consider leaving as soon as possible to avoid difficulties they will face if travel out of the territory and the wider region are further restricted and they are unable to get home.
All schools, nurseries, Community College and UWI Open Campus will be closed from the end of the day on Friday 20 March 2020 until 20 April 2020.
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
Health risks
UK health authorities have classified Turks and Caicos Islands as having a moderate risk of Zika virus transmission. No cases of Zika infection have been reported in Turks and Caicos Islands since January 2017. For information and advice about the risks associated with Zika virus, visit the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
Cases of dengue fever and chikungunya virus have been confirmed in the Turks and Caicos Islands. You should take steps to avoid being bitten by mosquitoes. For more details about this outbreak, see the website of the National Health Network and Centre.
Medical treatment
There are hospital facilities on Providenciales and Grand Turk, both operated by Interhealth Canada. They provide a range of services including diagnostic services, primary care and outpatient specialty clinics, emergency services and inpatient care. Serious cases are still referred overseas, usually to Miami or Nassau. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 911 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
