A flight has been chartered from the Cayman Islands to return people to the UK. This flight will make a stop in the Turks and Caicos on Friday 12 June, departing from Providenciales at 8pm (local time) to London Heathrow (ETA 9.35am on 13 June). If you wish to return to or transit via the UK, book your ticket(s) by visiting Cayman Islands Government flight repatriation website.
It is your responsibility to ensure you are eligible to enter or transit the UK. You may be denied boarding if you are unable to show proof of eligibility. If your final destination is not the UK, make sure you have onward tickets booked. You will not be allowed to board without proof of onward travel.
Alternatively JetBlue Airways are currently operating a limited number of flights from Providenciales to JFK Airport, New York.
Provo Air Center are also currently taking expressions of interest from UK, EU, US, and Canadian citizens in Providenciales who would like to return home via shared charter flights. If you’re interested in potential flights, either directly to the UK, or to connect with commercial flights from the USA or elsewhere, you should send contact information, preferred destination and details of your party to debby@provoaircenter.com. Other charter operators may also offer similar services.
Check the travel advice and border regulations for any country that you plan to transit through on the way back to the UK before departing Turks and Caicos.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK.
For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
TCI Residents wishing to return from the UK
A flight has been chartered from the Cayman Islands to return people to the Turks and Caicos Islands from the UK. This flight will depart from London at 8:00 am on 11 June and will arrive in TCI the same day (ETA 12:15pm). If you wish to return to TCI from the UK, book your ticket(s) by visiting the Cayman Islands Government flight repatriation website.
Passengers will need to pay for their return. There are a limited number of seats available.
Your journey home
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
If you’re returning home before 8 June 2020, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others. From 8 June there will be new rules for entering the UK.
If you cannot leave Turks and Caicos
If you cannot leave Turks and Caicos at this time, see advice on staying in Turks and Caicos during coronavirus.
