

Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.    
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in the Turks and Caicos Islands
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in the Turks and Caicos Islands, attacks cannot be ruled out.
Crime   
Levels of crime across the Turks and Caicos Islands are relatively low. Providenciales and Grand Turk have seen higher levels of gun-related crime than other islands. While risks are generally lower in tourist areas, always take local advice and be aware of your surroundings.
Protecting yourself and your belongings
Most other crime is opportunistic, such as burglary, theft and muggings. You can take steps to reduce your personal risk by:
not carrying large amounts of cash or valuables
avoiding isolated areas, particularly at night
taking care when using an ATM
keeping your passport in a hotel or villa safe if possible – you will not be able to get a replacement passport locally
not resisting if you’re attacked
Taxis
Avoid taking unregistered taxis (‘jitneys’).
Laws and cultural differences
The Turks and Caicos Islands is a British Overseas Territory and has its own laws.
Illegal drugs and prison sentences
Do not become involved with drugs of any kind. There are severe penalties for possession of even a small amount. You could be arrested and face fines of up to 5,000 US dollars and 2 years imprisonment.
LGBT+ travellers
Same-sex relationships are legal in the Turks and Caicos Islands. However, there’s no provision in law for same-sex marriages or civil partnerships.
Public attitudes are tolerant but conservative. Some people may not approve of same-sex couples showing affection in public. 
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Outdoor activities and adventure tourism
Swimming safety and water sports
Many visitors take part in water sports. The rate of accidents is very low, but they do occur.
See water safety on holiday from the Royal Life Saving Society.
Scuba diving 
Check the conditions on your insurance policy – some policies require dive instructors to have certain qualifications. Always:
ask to see a dive operator’s credentials
make sure safety equipment looks to be in good condition
make sure oxygen is available on the boat
Get advice on the safe depth for your dive. If you have not had any previous diving experience, check what to do if something goes wrong, including how to call for help while at sea.
If you go diving or snorkelling, leave details of your trip and an expected time of return with a friend, relative, hotel receptionist or villa staff.
Transport risks
Road travel
If you are planning to drive in the Turks and Caicos Islands, see information on driving abroad.
You can use a UK photocard driving licence to drive in the Turks and Caicos Islands for one month. If you still have a paper driving licence, you may need to update it to a photocard licence or get the correct version of the international driving permit (IDP) as well.
Hire car companies often have stricter requirements for their customers, such as a year of driving experience, a higher minimum age and holding an IDP. Check the licence requirements with your provider.
Driving standards
Driving is on the left, but be aware that most rental cars are left-hand drive. 
There is an increasing number of accidents on Leeward Highway on Providenciales, particularly at night. Take care when driving as livestock – goats, cows, donkeys and horses – regularly wander on to the road, especially on Grand Turk. 
Street lighting is limited, particularly away from the main roads.  
The speed limit in Turks and Caicos is 20mph in towns and 40mph elsewhere.
Taxis
There are standard taxi fares for most destinations on the main islands. You may be charged per person. Confirm the fare with the driver before starting a journey.   
Extreme weather and natural disasters
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards.
Hurricanes
The hurricane season in the Turks and Caicos Islands normally runs from June to November.
Monitor storms on the US National Hurricane Center and the Department of Disaster Management and Emergencies, and follow advice from local authorities.
You can also download Department of Disaster Management and Emergencies app (‘DDME Alert’) to get real-time alerts and updates.
Earthquakes
Earthquakes could be a risk. See more information from the Department of Disaster Management and Emergencies.
