Travel is subject to entry restrictions
If you’re visiting the Turks and Caicos Islands, you must get pre-travel authorisation via the Turks and Caicos Islands Assured Portal. This requires comprehensive evidence of a negative COVID-19 test from a reputable facility taken within 5 days prior to arrival in the Turks and Caicos Islands, proof of health/travel insurance with COVID-19 cover and a completed health screening questionnaire. All visitors will be required to wear masks on arrival to the Turks and Caicos Islands.
See Entry requirements for more information before you plan to travel.
Returning to the UK
Turks & Caicos is on the amber list for entering England. From 4am on Wednesday 30 June Turks & Caicos will move to the green list for entering England. Check what you must do to enter England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
If your return journey to the UK transits another country, you should check whether it is subject to a travel ban or any other additional requirements. If so, contact your travel provider.
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
If you’re planning travel to Turks and Caicos Islands, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCDO’s guidance on foreign travel insurance.
For information about COVID-19 vaccines, see the Coronavirus page.
The Turks and Caicos Islands is a British Overseas Territory. There is no formal British diplomatic or consular representation. The local authorities deal with all requests for emergency assistance. See Emergency assistance
The hurricane season usually runs from June to November.
You should monitor updates from the US National Hurricane Centre and the Turks and Caicos Islands’ Department for Disaster Management and Emergencies and follow the advice of local authorities in the case of any further storms. See Natural disasters
UK health authorities have classified Turks and Caicos Islands as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. No cases of Zika infection have been reported in Turks and Caicos Islands since January 2017. For information and advice about the risks associated with Zika virus, visit the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in the Turks and Caicos Islands, attacks can’t be ruled out. See Terrorism.
