Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

Cases of coronavirus (COVID-19) have been confirmed in Kyrgyzstan. The Kyrgyzstan authorities have introduced a number of precautionary measures.
Borders and travel restrictions
All foreign nationals are banned from entering the country, including those with Kyrgyz family members, and permanent residence holders. Anyone entering Kyrgyzstan will be subject to 3 days mandatory quarantine in state facilities. If you do not show any symptoms you should then be allowed to quarantine at home for 14 days.
There are currently no other commercial flights scheduled to leave from Kyrgyzstan. It is unclear when further flights will be announced. However, the US embassy has announced a small number of spaces may be available on an evacuation flight from Kyrgyzstan. For further details see the Return to the UK section and contact Consular.Bishkek@fco.gov.uk as soon as possible if you are interested in this flight. All land borders have now been closed. You should also check with your airline or travel company for the latest information, and follow local government announcements and media reporting. We will continue to update travel advice as we become aware of further options for leaving Kyrgyzstan.
You should monitor the Kyrgyz Government Ministry of Health website and the Kyrgyz Government website for updates.
See Return to the UK.
Local measures
You should comply with any additional screening measures and other restrictions put in place by the authorities.
Bishkek, Osh, Jalal-Abad, Naryn and At-Bashy are subject to emergency procedures until 30 April. Other areas may have local restrictions in place. For areas under emergency procedures a curfew is in place between 21:00 and 06:00, the only exceptions are for those with special permissions (mainly police officers and doctors). Anyone found breaking curfew will be held until the end of the curfew period, and may be held for a further 3 days if they do not have the correct ID documents, you could also face a fine.
Between 06:00 and 21:00 movement should be limited to your local area and only to buy food and access pharmacies and doctors as required. In Bishkek you should use food shops within 1.5km of your home address. Walking pets should take place within 100m of your home address and should not last more than 30 minutes. The authorities regulations also require that if you are going to a public place you will need to wear a mask. Gathering in groups of more than three people, unless they are from the same household is forbidden. Minors are not allowed to move about the city unless accompanied by an adult. Visiting friends, relatives and driving a personal vehicle without emergency or urgent need are also forbidden. If you are going out for any of these reasons you will need to carry id and a written copy of the following information:
Full name
Telephone number
Reason for leaving the house
Time of leaving
Expected time of return
Home address / address of residence
Destination address
The following fines have been introduced for those breaking emergency situation rules:
Leaving your home without a valid reason - 3000 som for individuals, 13000 som for organisations
Going out after 21:00 – 3000 som for individuals, 13000 som for organisations. Anyone without documents may also be held until your identity can be established, up to a period of three days.
Going to a public place without a mask 1000 som for individuals, 5000 som for organisations
Threatening medical workers or member of the police force – 100-120,000 som, and imprisonment for up to half a year for minors, 220,000 for those over 18 and imprisonment for two and a half years in a penal colony
Breach of home quarantine resulting in less serious harm to health – 15,000-25,000 soms for minors, 30,000-60,000 som for adults
Breach of home quarantine resulting in mass illness – 80,000-100,000 soms or imprisonment for up to 2 years for minors, 340,000 som for adults or imprisonment for up to 5 years
A large part of Bishkek, is subject to additional disinfection measures and restrictions, vehicles and pedestrians are restricted from entering this area. The area is bounded by, the South Highway, the Grand Chui Canal, Valikhanov Street and Sadyrbayev Street.
There are additional police patrols to check id documents and route details. There are also reports of junior military officers and volunteer groups being used to supplement the police in enforcing COVID-19 restrictions in some areas. Please comply with all official id checks and follow the COVID-19 restrictions set out in your area.
Additional restrictions will be placed on those entering and exiting the city and foreign nationals are advised to remain in the areas where they are registered as resident. Individuals under observation or treatment for COVID-19 are prohibited from leaving their homes. Anyone found to be disturbing public order can be expelled and returned to their permanent place of residence. For foreign nationals this is likely to be at your own expense. There are also restrictions on vehicle movements, and vehicles, including foreign vehicles, may be subject to inspections.
Restrictions on moving between villages, towns and cities across the rest of Kyrgyzstan remain in place. The authorities have ordered most shops and places of entertainment to close, with only grocery stores, banks and pharmacies remaining open.
Large events have been suspended including family, cultural, sporting, scientific and other commemorative events. Citizens are being encouraged to remain at home as far as possible and limit contact with other people.
You should consider making arrangements for provisions if you are unable or unwilling to leave your home for an extended period of time. You should also consider any medical arrangements that you will need to have in place including access to medicines. Medical facilities in Kyrgyzstan are not as developed as those in the UK.
If you are unwell and suspect you have symptoms of Coronavirus you can call Kyrgyzstan’s medical hotline (112, 103, 118), or the hotlines of local medical services. If you are required to enter a state quarantine center, facilities are likely to be basic. There are centers in hospitals, including surgery centers for those with additional medical needs, and a specialist area for pregnant women. However some people are also reportedly being held for observation in a former US airbase.
The Kyrgyz authorities have recently announced that foreign nationals may be eligible to pay for and join the state medical insurance scheme. For more details see Health.
Visas
The process of issuing entry visas for the Kyrgyz republic has temporarily been suspended, and all subordinate units of the State Registration Service are closed in areas under state of emergency restrictions. Registering of children born between 22 March and 22 April will be postponed, and punishments for failure to register the birth of a child will not be imposed. The Kyrgyz government has announced that foreign citizens and stateless persons can stay in Kyrgyzstan until 1 May 2020 without a visa, even if registration has expired. If you need to extend your period of stay on the basis of obtaining a visa (work permit, family ties, or other grounds) the visa center is willing to consider the possibility of obtaining visas without leaving the Kyrgyz republic. You can apply for a visa through the “Electronic Visa Portal”. Please be aware that under the current circumstances visa processing is likely to face significant delays.
If you need further information about entry requirements or visa issues, visit the MFA visa website or contact the local immigration authorities. Visa centers are currently working without direct contact for customers, you can contact the Kyrgyz visa service at e-visa@mfa.gov.kg or +996 312 66 30 70, the phone line is open on weekends and during public holidays during the current emergency situation. You should also check with your airline or travel company for the latest information.
For the latest information on new measures introduced by the Kyrgyz government, see the Kyrgyz government official website, and the Coronavirus response team telegram channel (Russian and Kyrgyz only).
Further information
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England, World Health Organisation (WHO) and on the TravelHealthPro website.
