This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Kyrgyzstan set and enforce entry rules. For further information contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to. You should also consider checking with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Restrictions in response to coronavirus
The government of Kyrgyzstan have announced that they are monitoring the omicrom variant of COVID 19, and are considering banning entry to citizens of countries where the omicrom variant is present. The British Embassy in Bishkek is in contact with the Kyrgyz government about this, and this advice will be updated once any decision has been confirmed.
Entry to Kyrgyzstan
A negative PCR test from no more than 72 hours before your arrival by air is now needed for foreign citizens to enter Kyrgyzstan regardless of vaccination status. If your journey is delayed and your results are outside the 72 hour period you will need to have a further PCR test on arrival. Requirements could change at short notice. Check with your airline before travel. For any questions on entry or exit requirements you should contact the relevant Kyrgyz authorities on +996 312 881 618.
British passport holders are able to enter Kyrgyzstan.
Demonstrating your COVID-19 status
Kyrgyzstan will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 recovery and vaccination record. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
You should not use the NHS testing service to get a test in order to facilitate your travel to another country. You should arrange to take a private test.
Passengers may have their temperature tested on arrival. If you’re showing symptoms of Coronavirus you may be taken to state medical facilities and could be asked to self-isolate at home.
For any questions on visa and registration requirements, you can contact the Kyrgyz visa service for information on your individual circumstances at e-visa@mfa.gov.kg or +996 312 66 30 70 and +996 703 42 88 65 (WhatsApp).
There is no registration requirement for British nationals entering Kyrgyzstan under the visa free regime intending to stay less than 60 days. The Kyrgyz Government are currently operating a “green corridor” and penalties will be waived for foreign citizens who have overstayed the visa free period, even if registration has expired.
Visas
The Kyrgyz Government are currently operating a “green corridor” and penalties will be waived for foreign citizens who have overstayed the visa free period, even if registration has expired. If you need to extend your period of stay on the basis of obtaining a visa (work permit, family ties, or other grounds) the visa centre is willing to consider the possibility of obtaining visas without leaving the Kyrgyz republic.
If you’re outside Kyrgyzstan and have an application waiting for consideration please email the Kyrgyz Visa Centre at e-visa@mfa.gov.kg.
If you need further information about entry requirements or visa issues, visit the MFA visa website or contact the local immigration authorities.
You can contact the Kyrgyz visa service at e-visa@mfa.gov.kg or +996 312 66 30 70 and +996 703 42 88 65 (WhatsApp).
For the latest information on new measures introduced by the Kyrgyz government, see the Kyrgyz government official website, and the Coronavirus response team telegram channel (Russian and Kyrgyz only).
You should also be aware that neighbouring Kazakhstan has introduced visa requirements for British nationals. See more information on the Kazakhstan Travel Advice Page
Regular entry requirements
Passport validity
Your passport should be valid for a minimum period of 6 months from the date of entry into Kyrgyzstan and must have at least 1 full blank page if you’re applying for a visa. This rule is not applicable when entering Kyrgyzstan under the 60 day visa-free regime.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents are accepted for entry, airside transit and exit from Kyrgyzstan. If using one to leave Kyrgyzstan, you must obtain an exit visa from OVIR (the Department for Visa and Registration under the Ministry of Internal Affairs). This takes at least 5 working days.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
Registration
On 19 December 2016, the government of Kyrgyzstan approved a decree removing the requirement for British nationals staying in Kyrgyzstan for longer than 5 days to register with the local authorities. You now only need to register your stay with the State Registration Service if you’re visiting for more than 60 calendar days. If you’re staying for more than 60 calendar days you must register within 5 days of entry into Kyrgyzstan and you must register for the period of validity of your visa.
Foreigners can now register through the electronic services portal (available in Russian and Kyrgyz only). Foreign citizens can act as a host and register visitors staying in their homes. The registration coupon with QR-code on the forms can be obtained online and printed on a regular printer. Mobile applications will be developed for reading the information.
