

The Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) cannot provide tailored advice for individual trips. Read this travel advice and carry out your own research before deciding whether to travel.
Emergency services in Kyrgyzstan
Ambulance: 103
Fire: 101 
Police: 102
Rescue and emergency: 112
Tourist police in Issyk-Kul Province
If you are in Issyk-Kul Oblast (province) and need help, you can call the tourist police call centre, where the staff speak English and Russian, or message on WhatsApp, on +996 705 00 91 02.
Contact your travel provider and insurer
Contact your travel provider and your insurer if you are involved in a serious incident or emergency abroad. They will tell you if they can help and what you need to do.
Refunds and changes to travel
For refunds or changes to travel, contact your travel provider. You may also be able to make a claim through insurance. However, insurers usually require you to talk to your travel provider first.
Find out more about changing or cancelling travel plans, including:
where to get advice if you are in a dispute with a provider
how to access previous versions of travel advice to support a claim
Support from FCDO
FCDO has guidance on staying safe and what to do if you need help or support abroad, including:
finding English-speaking lawyers, funeral directors and translators and interpreters in Kyrgyzstan
dealing with a death in Kyrgyzstan
being arrested or imprisoned in Kyrgyzstan
getting help if you’re a victim of crime
what to do if you’re in hospital
if you’re affected by a crisis, such as a terrorist attack
Contacting FCDO
Help abroad  
See how to get help from the UK government abroad including in an emergency. 
Help in the UK  
You can call FCDO in London if you need urgent help because something has happened to a friend or relative abroad.  
Telephone: 020 7008 5000 (24 hours)  
Find out about call charges
Get travel advice updates  
Sign up to get email notifications when this travel advice is updated.  
Follow and contact FCDO:
travel advice on X
travel advice on Facebook
Risk information for British companies
If you’re considering investing or doing business in Kyrgyzstan, it is important to research carefully.
Although there are British companies operating successfully in Kyrgyzstan, there have been instances of British people getting into difficulties. This includes having assets stolen or being physically attacked. See Kyrgyzstan’s ranking in the Transparency International Global Corruption Index.
The Kyrgyz legal system can be slow and getting judgements implemented can be very difficult. The British Embassy is not able to get involved (including offering advice) in private disputes over property, employment, commercial or other matters.
Business associations in Kyrgyzstan may be able to offer you advice. If you get into difficulties due to the actions of state bodies, you can also contact the Kyrgyzstan ombudsman (in Russian and Kyrgyz).  
