At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Coronavirus
Cases of Coronavirus have been confirmed in Kyrgyzstan. The Kyrgyzstan authorities have introduced a number of precautionary measures, including banning all foreign nationals from entering the country. All Kyrgyz nationals entering the country will be subject to a 14 day quarantine period. Foreign nationals already in Kyrgyzstan will be allowed to leave, flights are now limited to one Moscow – Bishkek flight, one Moscow-Osh flight and one Novosibirsk – Bishkek flight per week.
All land borders have now been closed. You should also check with your airline or travel company for the latest information.
Options for leaving Kyrgyzstan are becoming increasingly limited and if you wish to leave Kyrgyzstan you should make arrangements to do so immediately. You should follow local government announcements and media reporting.
You should monitor the Kyrgyz Government Ministry of Health website and the Kyrgyz Government website for updates.
You should comply with any additional screening measures put in place by the authorities. The government of Kyrgyzstan have also announced that from the 16 March schools, universities, nightclubs, cinemas, computer clubs, food areas and playgrounds for children in shopping and entertainment centers will be closed for a three week period. Entertainment facilities, cultural and educational institutions (including universities, schools and kindergartens), restaurants with more than 50 seats, sports centers, and swimming pools have all been suspended until the situation improves. Organizations are required to install sanitizers and air purifiers, and to provide staff and visitors with disinfectant. Large events have been suspended including family, cultural, sporting, scientific and other commemorative events. Citizens are being encouraged to remain at home as far as possible and limit contact with other people.
You should consider making arrangements for provisions if you are unable or unwilling to leave your home for an extended period of time. You should also consider any medical arrangements that you will need to have in place including access to medicines. Medical facilities in Kyrgyzstan are not as developed as those in the UK.
If you are required to enter a state quarantine center facilities are likely to be basic. There are centers in hospitals, including surgery centers for those with additional medical needs. However some people are also reportedly being held for observation in a former US airbase.
If you need further information about entry requirements or visa issues, contact the local immigration authorities or the nearest embassy of the Kyrgyz Republic. You should also check with your airline or travel company for the latest information.
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England, World Health Organisation (WHO) and on the TravelHealthPro website.
Other health risks
There have been several cases of anthrax in Kyrgyzstan, mainly in the south of the country, due to insufficient measures to vaccinate animals.
Local medical care
The reciprocal healthcare agreement between the UK and Kyrgyzstan terminated on 1 January 2016.
Medical facilities in Kyrgyzstan are not as developed as those in the UK. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 103 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
