Flydubai have announced a series of Bishkek- Dubai flights on the following dates:
Friday 24 July
Friday 31 July
Tickets are also now available for flyDubai flights on Wednesdays, Saturdays and Sundays throughout August.
Tickets are available online and at local travel agents. The Kyrgyz authorities have told us that they have given permission for these flights. You can find further information on returning to the UK from Dubai on the Travel advice page for the UAE.
Turkish Airlines are hoping to run a series of repatriation flights in July. The next flights are provisionally scheduled for:
Thursday 23 July
Thursday 30 July
The Turkish Embassy have announced that they are hoping to run further flights in August.
As these are Turkish repatriation flights, Turkish national passengers will be given priority. Any remaining spaces will be opened up to foreign nationals, including British nationals. To date, demand for these flights from Turkish nationals has been high, and the number of seats available for other nationals has been small.
Due to the high level of interest in these flights, Turkish Airlines have asked for potential passengers to register their interest through their embassies. If you are a British national and wish to register your interest in travelling on one of these flights, please contact Consular.Bishkek@fco.gov.uk and provide us with:
A copy of the information page from your passport
Your contact e-mail address, phone number and WhatsApp Number
Your consent for us to share this information with relevant Airlines, the Turkish Embassy in the Kyrgyz Republic, and Kyrgyz authorities.
If you are a European passport holder and wish to register interest in these flights, please contact the German Embassy at vw-1@bisc.auswaertiges-amt.de.
These flights are not yet confirmed and registering your interest is not a commitment to travel, or to buying a ticket, neither does it guarantee you will be able to get a ticket on these flights. The Kyrgyz authorities have not yet confirmed the permissions for these flights to go ahead, so cancellation is still possible.
Once flights are confirmed you will need to make your own arrangements for onward travel from Istanbul. You can find information on options for returning to the UK from Turkey on our travel advice page for Turkey.
The UK government is working closely with airlines, the Kyrgyz authorities and other governments to make sure options are available for you to return to the UK as soon as possible.
If you cannot leave Kyrgyzstan at this time, you should:
follow the advice of local authorities, including local measures to help minimise your risk of exposure to coronavirus
find accommodation that’s suitable for your needs.
keep in regular contact with family and friends at home, so they know you are safe and well
See more information and advice about staying where you are if you cannot return to the UK
Future travel options
The UK government is working closely with airlines, the Kyrgyz authorities and other governments to make sure options are available for you to return to the UK as soon as possible.
This travel advice will be updated when departure options become available.
Sign up for email alerts for Kyrgyzstan travel advice and follow the British Embassy on Twitter and Facebook.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK.
For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM is a commercial partner of the FCO and authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Your journey home: re-entering the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK. You:
need to provide your journey and contact details up to 48 hours before you’re due to arrive in the UK
are not allowed to leave the place you’re staying for the first 14 days you’re in the UK except in very limited situations (known as ‘self-isolating’)
See also the list of people who are exempt from the border rules.
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) also provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British Embassy Bishkek on +996 312 303 637, option 4.
The British Embassy Bishkek cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone. This page will be updated when departure options become available. To get the latest information, sign up for travel advice email alerts.
If you cannot leave Kyrgyzstan
If you cannot leave Kyrgyzstan at this time, see advice on staying in Kyrgyzstan during coronavirus.
