

You should also read FCDO’s overall travel advice and regional risks advice.
Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Kyrgyzstan
Terrorists are likely to try to carry out attacks in Kyrgyzstan.
Due to increasing regional tensions in the Middle East, Israeli and Jewish linked sites could be targets for terrorists in Kyrgyzstan. Attacks could be indiscriminate, including in places visited by foreign nationals, such as:
transport hubs 
hotels, restaurants and pubs
embassies 
religious sites and places of worship  
sporting and cultural events  
shopping centres and crowded places
Be alert for any security related announcements by the Kyrgyz authorities.
Political situation
Demonstrations happen regularly in Bishkek and elsewhere across the country. Most demonstrations are peaceful but occasionally turn violent, sometimes with little or no warning. On 17 and 18 May 2024, 41 people were injured in Bishkek in Kyrgyz protests against South Asian migrant workers and students.
Avoid crowds and demonstrations, check for updates on local media and follow the advice of local authorities.
Crime
Protecting yourself and your belongings
Street crime is a risk, including bag-snatching and mugging. Take care if you go out alone or use public transport and consider using private cars or pre-arranged taxis at night.
Do not show large amounts of money and be wary of strangers offering help or being over-friendly.
Be careful when using currency exchange offices and visiting the bazaars in Bishkek, particularly Osh Bazaar, where pickpockets target tourists.
Use caution and take measures to reduce your personal risk, such as: 
keep sight of your belongings at all times  
be aware of thieves using distraction techniques  
avoid carrying all your valuables together in one place e.g. handbags or pockets 
exercise a similar level of caution as you would in the UK
Drink spiking and sexual assault 
Drink spiking is a risk in nightclubs and bars and can lead to sexual assault. Alcohol and drugs can reduce your vigilance, making you less in control.
Buy your own drinks and always keep them in sight to avoid them being spiked. If you drink, know your limit. Avoid splitting up from your friends and do not go off with people you do not know. See Travel Aware ‘Stick with your mates’ for tips and advice.
Laws and cultural differences
Kyrgyzstan has a secular constitution. Most Kyrgyz people are Muslim. Respect local traditions, customs, laws and religions. Make sure your actions do not offend other cultures or religious beliefs, especially during the holy month of Ramadan or when you visit religious sites.
Ramadan 
Ramadan is a holy month for Muslims. The dates vary by year and country. Cafés and restaurants may amend their menus and be busy around fast-breaking (‘Iftar’). Areas around mosques are also likely to be busy around prayer times. Take particular care not to offend religious sensitivities at this time.
Personal ID
You must always carry your passport, or a notarised copy of it, with you at all times. The police can arrest you if you do not carry ID. You can be arrested if you fail to do so. You can get a copy of your passport notarised in the UK and translated into Kyrgyz or Russian, or use a copy notarised in Kyrgyzstan.
Illegal drugs and prison sentences
It is illegal to possess or use drugs. You could get a lengthy prison sentence if convicted. Prison conditions are basic.
The police conduct regular drug raids in bars and night clubs. Police will be masked and armed. Stay calm and follow instructions. If you are not carrying and have not taken drugs you are normally asked for identification and then allowed to leave.
Alcohol laws 
It is illegal to sell alcohol to someone aged 18 or under. Drinking in public is prohibited, and violators may face a 1,000 KGS fines or even imprisonment.
E-cigarettes
It is illegal to bring e-cigarettes, vaping devices and solutions into Kyrgyzstan or to buy and sell them. Customs officials will confiscate these items; and they could fine or detain you.
Prohibited material   
It is prohibited to bring certain material into Kyrgyzstan. This includes material which promotes war, terrorism, religious hatred or racism and pornographic content.
Using cameras and drones in secure areas
It is illegal to take photos of or use drones near anything related to the military or security, including border checkpoints, military sites and police stations. Check carefully that you are not near any military or security facilities.
Check if you can import and use your model of drone with the Kyrgyz Embassy.
Social media
Be careful when posting images of your visit on social media as offence can be taken. Take particular care with images or comments about public buildings, the Kyrgyz flag, national food or customs. Disrespectful content could result in fines or detention.
LGBT+ travellers
Same-sex relationships are legal but not often discussed or recognised publicly. Showing affection in public could result in a violent attack or unwanted attention. Same sex marriages are not recognised in Kyrgyz law.
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Power cuts
There are frequent power cuts throughout Kyrgyzstan during the winter.
Money 
The currency in Kyrgyzstan is the Kyrgyz som (KGS), and is usually not available in currency exchanges outside Kyrgyzstan.   
ATMs are widely available in main cities and usually distribute Kyrgyz som and US dollars.  You should pay with KGS but USD is a universal currency, and may be accepted in certain situations. ATMs sometimes have a maximum som withdrawal limit. This varies from bank to bank, but is often around 10,000 KGS. ATMs are also usually available in smaller towns, though it may be more difficult to withdraw dollars outside main cities. Credit and debit cards are widely used around the country; VISA is accepted in most places, but MasterCard is sometimes not accepted. Payment by QR code is also common. Travellers’ cheques are not normally accepted.
Bring cash if you plan to travel to rural areas where ATMs may not be available.
US dollars are the most easily exchanged foreign currency. Notes from before 2007 usually are not accepted or subject to additional charge if changing to Kyrgyz som.
Outdoor activities and adventure tourism
Trekking and mountaineering
Trekking in Kyrgyzstan often involves travelling to very remote areas. There is a high risk of avalanches, landslides and rockfalls. Weather can change very quickly, and heavy snowfall can block roads and trekking routes, particularly in the autumn and winter.
At higher altitudes there is a possibility of snow even in the summer months, and a risk of sunstroke, serious sunburn and altitude sickness.
You should:
get adequate insurance, including for any activity at high altitude
use a reputable trekking agency
let someone know when you plan to return
not trek alone
adapt your plans to reflect local conditions and advice
In remote areas, mobile phone or satellite phone coverage can be extremely limited. Medical facilities are basic, and difficult terrain can in some circumstances make it impossible for emergency services to reach you.
There is a basic mountain rescue service staffed by volunteers. The rescue equipment they have is limited. Mountain rescue 24-hour emergency number: +996 312 651 404.
Transport risks
Road travel 
If you’re planning to drive a hire car or a UK vehicle, see information on driving abroad. 
You can use a UK photocard driving licence to drive in Kyrgyzstan for up to 30 days. If you still have a paper driving licence, you may need to update it to a photocard licence or get the correct version of the international driving permit (IDP) as well.
You’re legally required to have third-party insurance. For more information, contact insurance companies in Kyrgyzstan.
Hire car companies often have stricter requirements for their customers, such as a minimum of one year of driving experience, a higher minimum age and holding an IDP.
Drink-driving is a serious offence in Kyrgyzstan. If you are tested and found to have any alcohol in your system, you may be fined and have your licence revoked for 1 year.
If the police stop you and issue a fine, they should give you a paper copy with instructions on how to pay. You can pay fines through a payment terminal or in a bank. Do not pay cash directly to police officers, although some may have a payment terminal you can use. Some fines may be reduced if you pay quickly. Payment terminals are available on streets and other places such as malls, grocery stores, kiosks and restaurants.
Kyrgyzstan road laws require you: 
to drive on the right
to wear seatbelts for drivers and all passengers
not to use a mobile phone while driving
Driving safety
Many roads are poorly lit and not maintained, with road works or damaged roads often not clearly signposted. Watch out for pedestrians as they often have a low awareness of road safety. Roads outside of Bishkek are often blocked by snow in winter.
Take extra care when driving, particularly over long distances and avoid giving lifts to hitchhikers. Drivers have been robbed by people they picked up.
Road conditions can be poor in and around Bishkek, wherever possible use main roads when travelling.
Petrol stations are limited in rural areas and diesel is often unavailable. Make sure you take all you need for your journey.
Taxis and buses
Avoid flagging down taxis. Use licensed pre-ordered taxi services whenever possible, these are more reputable and have English-speaking dispatchers.
Avoid using local buses and minibuses if possible. They are not always maintained properly and pickpockets operate on them.
Air travel   
In May 2022, the UK sanctioned Aeroflot, Rossiya Airlines and Ural Airlines. It is now illegal under UK law for any British national or British company to do business with these airlines. This includes buying flight tickets.
The UK Air Safety List (ASL) lists all known airlines in Kyrgyzstan that do not meet international safety standards and are banned from operating commercial air services to, from, and within the UK. Check the UK Air Safety List when considering which airlines to fly with. The list is maintained by the Department for Transport, based on advice from the UK Civil Aviation Authority.
Check whether your tour operator has concerns about airlines in Kyrgyzstan.
Extreme weather and natural disasters
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards.
Earthquakes
There is a high risk of earthquakes and tremors are frequent. Familiarise yourself with safety procedures and follow advice from local authorities. The US Federal Emergency Management Agency has information about what to do before, during and after an earthquake.
Avalanches and landslides
In the mountains, avalanches and landslides often block roads, particularly in the spring.
