This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Kyrgyzstan as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Kyrgyzstan to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Kyrgyzstan
For information on entering Kyrgyzstan, see Entry Requirements
All land borders are closed.
You should comply with any additional screening measures and other restrictions put in place by the authorities.
Curfews
The night time curfew imposed in major cities including Bishkek has now been lifted. However other restrictions on movement remain in place.
Restrictions on movement
Movement should be limited to your local area and only to buy food and access pharmacies and doctors as required. In Bishkek you should use food shops within 1.5km of your home address.
Walking pets should take place within 100m of your home address and should not last more than 30 minutes. Visiting friends and relatives is also forbidden. Restrictions on moving between villages, towns and cities across the rest of Kyrgyzstan remain in place.
If you are going to a public place you should wear a mask. Gathering in groups of more than three people, unless they are from the same household is forbidden. Minors should be accompanied by an adult.
If you are going out you will need to carry ID and a written copy of the following information:
full name
telephone number
reason for leaving the house
time of leaving
expected time of return
home address / address of residence
destination address
If you are travelling to work in one of the essential service sectors you will also need a letter from your employer stamped by the tax authority.
There are additional police patrols to check id documents and route details. You should comply with all official id checks and follow the coronavirus restrictions set out in your area.
Additional restrictions will be placed on those entering and exiting large cities. Restrictions on moving between villages, towns and cities across the rest of Kyrgyzstan remain in place. Individuals under observation or treatment for coronavirus are prohibited from leaving their homes.
Reopening of businesses
The following businesses have permission to resume operations:
enterprises associated with food, beverage and agricultural production, processing and transportation, and related industries
catering facilities (for delivery and take out only)
taxi services (organised services only, maximum 2 passengers per vehicle)
hairdressing and beauty salons
plumbing, electrical installation and carpentry work
repair of household appliances and machinery
all types of housing services (water, sewage, gas, electricity, communications, heating, waste collection, elevator services etc.)
laundry and dry cleaning services
medical supplies and equipment, and all medical institutions
laboratories
services for disinfection and cleaning of drains and pipes
vehicle repair and maintenance services
the post service
financial and other services (including banks, customs, stock brokers, microfinance organisations, bureau d’change pawnshops, insurance companies, notaries, legal services, estate agents, travel agencies and printing services)
media organisations
industry and production (including the energy industry, chemical industry, oil and gas, fuels, mechanical engineering, instrument making and electrical industry, mining, metallurgy, textile, leather and footwear production, furniture industry, production of building and finishing materials, etc)
construction (including building works, irrigation and water supply, canals, roads, bridges and other related work and services)
certain types of trade activities (online stores and courier services, wholesalers for building materials, wholesalers for fabric and haberdashery supplies, garden materials including seedlings etc, auto and bicycle parts, car dealers with the exception of car markets)
From 21 May the following businesses will also be allowed to reopen:
Public Service Centres
certain types of financial and other services
pawnshops
certain parts of the service sector
shoe repair
assembly and repair of furniture
certain types of retail businesses
shopping centres
clothing markets and shops
car markets
accompanying services
services of private (individual) tutors
services of private family baths and SPA centres
All reopening is subject to developments of the coronavirus outbreak.
Visas
If you need to extend your period of stay on the basis of obtaining a visa (work permit, family ties, or other grounds) the visa centre is willing to consider the possibility of obtaining visas without leaving the Kyrgyz republic.
You should be aware that under the current circumstances visa processing is likely to face significant delays. See Entry requirements for more information on visas.
Health
You should consider making arrangements for provisions if you are unable or unwilling to leave your home for an extended period of time. You should also consider any medical arrangements that you will need to have in place including access to medicines. Medical facilities in Kyrgyzstan are not as developed as those in the UK.
If you are unwell and suspect you have symptoms of Coronavirus you can call Kyrgyzstan’s medical hotline (112, 103, 118), or the hotlines of local medical services. If you are required to enter a state quarantine centre, facilities are likely to be basic.
Some foreign nationals may be eligible to pay for and join the state medical insurance scheme. For more details see Health.
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Kyrgyzstan
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Kyrgyzstan, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
For the latest information on new measures introduced by the Kyrgyz government, see the Kyrgyz government official website, and the Coronavirus response team telegram channel (Russian and Kyrgyz only).
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic. travellers).
