British nationals are able to enter Kyrgyzstan.
A negative PCR test, taken no more than 72 hours before your arrival by flight or 120 hours before crossing a land border, is required for all foreign nationals entering Kyrgyzstan. In case of flight delays or extended transit exceeding 72 hours the passenger must take a PCR test upon arrival to the country. Requirements could change at short notice. Check with your airline or travel provider before travel.
See Entry requirements
Preparing for your return journey to the UK
If you’re returning to the UK from overseas, you will need to:
provide your journey and contact details before you travel
check if you need to self-isolate on your return
The Kyrgyz government has announced emergency measures in Bishkek in response to the protests. These will be in place until 21 October. This is likely to involve entry and exit restrictions; banning of protests and mass events; limits on vehicle movements, additional identity checks and restrictions on communication. The army may also be brought in to restore order. We will update travel advice when the exact details of this have been confirmed.
From 10 October a nightly curfew will be in place in Bishkek between 20:00 and 08:00.
Following Parliamentary elections on 4 October large numbers of protesters gathered in central Bishkek and other cities across the country. It is likely that demonstrations will continue in the coming week, both in Bishkek and other locations across the country, and there is a risk that these could become violent. Police have previously used tear gas, rubber bullets, stun grenades and water cannon in response to protests. The armed forces have also been deployed to maintain law and order. It is possible that some demonstrators may be armed. You are advised to avoid all crowds and demonstrations, maintain a low profile and where possible remain indoors in a safe location, especially at night. Follow updates on local media and any instructions from the police or other authorities.
There have been reports of attacks on businesses, in particular parts of the mining industry. The possibility of looting remains. Volunteer “people’s militia” have been patrolling the streets at night to protect property and prevent looting in Bishkek. See Political situation
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
If you’re planning travel to Kyrgyzstan, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCDO’s guidance on foreign travel insurance.
The Kyrgyz authorities have lifted most restrictions introduced in response to the Coronavirus. A negative PCR test from no more than 72 hours before your arrival by air, or 120 hours by land, is now required for entry into Kyrgyzstan. In case of flight delays or extended transit exceeding 72 hours the passenger must take a PCR test upon arrival to the country. See Coronavirus and Entry requirements. Further restrictions could be reintroduced at short notice if the situation deteriorates. You should follow local government advice, and media reporting for notice of changes to Coronavirus requirements.
Terrorist attacks in Kyrgyzstan can’t be ruled out. You should be vigilant in public places and follow security advice from the local authorities. See Terrorism.
Take care if you travel to the Oblasts (Provinces) of Osh, Batken and Jalal-Abad. See Local travel
Skirmishes can occur along the disputed Kyrgyz-Tajik border. Previous incidents have involved both civilians and border guards and several have involved firearms. There are also occasional security incidents on the Kyrgyz/Uzbek and Kyrgyz/Kazakh borders. There’s a risk of further localised violence and border closures at any time. You should remain vigilant in border areas and check local media reports before you travel. See Local travel
You should also be aware that Kazakhstan has introduced new visa requirements, and currently has additional entry requirements in place. See the Visas Section of Travel Advice for Kazakhstan for more information.
Following protests in Kyrgyzstan after the Parliamentary elections on 4 October the Uzbek authorities have closed the Kyrgyz border to foreigners, including Kyrgyz citizens. Air Astana has cancelled their flights between Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan from 9 to 16 October. It is possible that other border points and transport options could be closed at short notice, so you should check before travelling. Please also check with your airline or travel agent on the status of flights to Kyrgyzstan.
There is a high risk of earthquakes. See Natural Disasters
You must carry your passport, or a notarised copy of it, at all times. See Local laws and customs
Dual nationality isn’t recognised in Kyrgyzstan. If you enter Kyrgyzstan on a Kyrgyz passport and also hold British nationality the British Embassy can only provide very limited consular assistance. In cases of arrest or detention, consular access is unlikely to be granted.
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.
