Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Equatorial Guinea on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
Restrictions on the number of flights are in place. National carriers are allowed 3 weekly flights and international carriers are permitted one weekly flight.
Entry and borders
A previous ban on travellers from the UK has now been lifted. Travel from countries with coronavirus variants of concern may be restricted with short notice.
Sea and land borders are only open for essential workers and those with an official reason for travelling to the country, and must be approved by the government.
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Equatorial Guinea.
Returning to the UK
Travelling from and returning to the UK
Check what you must do to travel abroad and return to England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
If you plan to pass through another country to return to the UK, check the travel advice for the country you’re transiting. If you will pass through a red list country, book your hotel quarantine package before travelling to the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements. You should contact local authorities for information on testing facilities.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
Authorities in Equatorial Guinea do all official testing. If you test positive for COVID-19 while in country, you will be required to isolate immediately. Oil company employees will be able to isolate in oil company isolation facilities, whilst other individuals will have to go to one of the hotels which the government of Equatorial Guinea has nominated for isolation until a negative test is returned. This applies to all, including those under 18. There is no assistance available from the government for people who need to leave these hotels for any reason.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Equatorial Guinea
You must wear a mask in public places.
Domestic flights have resumed, however, under new guidelines, domestic flights will be limited to 3 flights per week for domestic services providers. Passengers will need to fulfil additional testing requirements to use these services. Negative PCR test certificates no older than 48 hours old or proof of vaccination are required to conduct domestic travel. Equatorial Guinea will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 recovery and vaccination record. See ‘Demonstrating your COVID-19 status’. You may only travel between provinces and districts within continental Equatorial Guinea with an essential reason, such as work or health.
Accommodation
The hotel sector is now open. The use of masks within hotels and other accommodation is compulsory.
Public places and services
The nationwide daily curfew has been extended and is now from 6pm to 6am across the country
Masks are compulsory in all open spaces, public buildings, on public transport and in private vehicles if accompanied by other people. Authorities conduct regular patrols and you may be fined if you are caught not wearing a mask
Bars, discotheques, casinos and other entertainment venues remain closed
Weddings baptisms and other celebratory events must not exceed 20 participants, or they will be suspended
Places of worship must adhere to strict preventative guidelines
Schools have reopened but at maximum 50% capacity
Other mass gatherings are not permitted
Some venues take temperatures and supply hand sanitizer
Public transport and taxis may reduce their capacity. You must supply proof of vaccination to take public transport
Healthcare in Equatorial Guinea
If you think you have COVID-19 symptoms you should call the toll-free numbers provided by the Government (1112 for Bata and 1111 for Malabo) and you will be advised on next steps. Health clinics and pharmacies are required to inform the Rapid Response Service and the closest hospital facility of any individuals with symptoms of COVID-19.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Equatorial Guinea
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Equatorial Guinea
We will update this page when the Government of Equatorial Guinea announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Equatorial Guinea national vaccine programme started in April 2021 and is using the Sinopharm vaccine. Foreign nationals are no longer eligible for this vaccine programme.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Help and support
The British High Commission in Yaoundé, Cameroon, will only be able to provide limited consular support.
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British High Commission Yaoundé on +442070081500 / +237 222220545.
To get the latest information, sign up for travel advice email alerts.
Further information
For further information and to keep up to date, you should also check the Government of Equatorial Guinea website.
