This page has information on travelling to Equatorial Guinea.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Equatorial Guinea set and enforce entry rules. If you’re unsure how Equatorial Guinea’s entry requirements apply to you, contact its UK embassy, high commission or consulate.
All travellers
If you’re fully vaccinated
The government of Equatorial Guinea has put certain travel restrictions in place ahead of elections on 20 November. Air space is closing from midnight on 18/19 November until 6am on 21 November. No commercial flights will be in operation during this time. Please check with local authorities before travel in case there are other restrictions in place.
If you’re fully vaccinated, you can enter Equatorial Guinea. However, on arrival, passengers are required to undergo a rapid COVID-19 test. You will also be required to provide proof of a negative coronavirus (COVID-19) test result, using a polymerase chain reaction (PRC) test, taken within the last 48 hours.
All passengers are then required to quarantine and take a second test on day three. Those who test negative after the second test will be free to leave quarantine on day four. Those who test positive will be required to isolate immediately.
Oil company employees will be able to isolate in oil company isolation facilities, whilst other individuals will have to go to one of the hotels which the government of Equatorial Guinea has nominated for isolation until a negative test is returned. This applies to all, including those under 18. Authorities may withdraw passports from passengers if an invalid PCR test is presented.
You should not use the NHS testing service to get a test in order to facilitate your travel to another country. You should arrange to take a private test.
Proof of vaccination status
You must present proof that you have been fully vaccinated to enter Equatorial Guinea.
Equatorial Guinea will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 recovery and vaccination record. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
If you’re not fully vaccinated
The authorities in Equatorial Guinea require all travellers to the country to show proof of vaccination in order to enter the country. You will not be permitted to enter the country if you cannot show proof of vaccination.
If you’ve had COVID-19 in the past year
If you’re not fully vaccinated but have tested positive for COVID-19 in the last year you will not be permitted to enter the country. You’ll need to show evidence of a positive PCR test (taken more than 14 days and less than a year ago). You will not need to take an additional COVID-19 test.
Equatorial Guinea will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 recovery and vaccination record. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
Children and young people
Children aged 17 and under are also required to demonstrate proof of vaccination before entering the country.
If you’re transiting through Equatorial Guinea
Transiting is when you pass through one country on the way to your final destination.
Transiting through Equatorial Guinea is permitted for travellers who meet the entry requirements.
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
If you are entering Equatorial Guinea, your passport should be valid for a minimum period of 6 months from the date of entry.
Check with your travel provider to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Passport validity
Your passport should be valid for a minimum period of 6 months from the date of entry.
Check that your passport is properly stamped at the airport, on arrival and departure, before leaving the immigration desk. There have been reports of travellers being delayed or threatened with detention because their passports have not been properly stamped.
If you replace your passport the Equatorial Guinea authorities will require the old passport prior to issuing a replacement visa in your new passport. The authorities will not admit travellers on visas entered into old passports, even if the visa is still valid.
Long-term visitors are required to obtain a residence permit of 1 year validity from the Ministry of National Security. Holders of a residence permit no longer require a visa to exit or enter Equatorial Guinea during the validity of their residence permit.
If you’re arriving by air you may be required to fill in a health questionnaire related to recent travel to Ebola-affected countries (Liberia/Guinea/Sierra Leone).
Visas
British nationals need a visa to visit Equatorial Guinea. For further information on entry requirements, contact the Embassy of Equatorial Guinea in London: 13 Park Place, St James’, London SW1A 1LP; telephone: 020 7499 6867.
Check that your passport is properly stamped at the airport, on arrival and departure, before leaving the immigration desk. There have been reports of travellers being delayed or threatened with detention because their passports have not been properly stamped.
If you replace your passport the Equatorial Guinea authorities will require the old passport prior to issuing a replacement visa in your new passport. The authorities will not admit travellers on visas entered into old passports, even if the visa is still valid.
Long-term visitors are required to obtain a residence permit of 1 year validity from the Ministry of National Security. Holders of a residence permit no longer require a visa to exit or enter Equatorial Guinea during the validity of their residence permit.
If you’re arriving by air you may be required to fill in a health questionnaire related to recent travel to Ebola-affected countries (Liberia/Guinea/Sierra Leone).
The Government of Equatorial Guinea has confirmed it will not penalise British nationals whose visas have expired while they are unable to leave the country due to coronavirus restrictions. If this is your situation, you should write a letter to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs (Visa Section) informing them, and keep a copy for future visa applications. You will be allowed to leave the country freely when able to, and this will not affect your chances of being granted a visa in the future.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
Emergency travel documents (ETDs) aren’t valid for entry into Equatorial Guinea but ETDs are accepted for exit from Equatorial Guinea.
