

On 8 June 2023, the outbreak of Marburg virus disease, the first of it’s kind in Equatorial Guinea, was declared over by the World Health Organisation (WHO) and the Government of Equatorial Guinea. No new cases have been reported for over 42 days. Ongoing vigilance is recommended. A total of 17 laboratory-confirmed cases and 12 deaths were recorded. All 23 probable cases died.
You should check with local authorities before travelling. You can find more information on Marburg virus disease from the WHO, and the TravelHealthPro website.
If you have a health condition, or you are pregnant, you may need specialist healthcare abroad. Check whether your destination country can provide the healthcare you may need and ensure you have appropriate travel insurance for unexpected medical evacuation or local treatment.
See the Coronavirus travel health and Healthcare sections in the Coronavirus page for COVID-19 health information.
At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Medical treatment
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 3101 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
Medical facilities are generally poor, apart from the La Paz hospital in Malabo. Pharmacies in Malabo and Bata stock basic medication. Emergency facilities are extremely limited. For serious medical treatment, evacuation to Europe would be necessary. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation.
Food hygiene
Food purchased from local street vendors may not meet adequate hygiene standards. 
