Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

The Equatorial Guinea authorities have announced the suspension of all international flights until further notice. All land, sea and air borders have been closed indefinitely.
What to do
If you cannot leave Equatorial Guinea at this time, you should:
follow the advice of local authorities, including local measures to help minimise your risk of exposure to coronavirus
find accommodation that’s suitable for your needs
keep in regular contact with family and friends at home, so they know you are safe and well
See more information and advice about staying where you are if you cannot return to the UK.
Future travel options
Chartered repatriation flights may be organised by foreign governments where some places may be available for British Nationals.
Information about these flights is generally only available at short notice therefore you should e-mail ConsularYaoundeEnquiries@fco.gov.uk with your full name, date of birth, passport number, address in the UK, any medical conditions, telephone number and e-mail address if you are seeking to leave Equatorial Guinea.
This travel advice will be updated when charter and commercial departure options become available.
Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British High Commission Yaoundé on Twitter and Facebook to receive the latest information.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Your journey home
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Help and support
The British High Commission in Yaoundé, Cameroon will only be able to provide limited consular support.
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British High Commission Yaoundé on +442070081500 / +237 222220545.
The High Commission cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone. This page will be updated when UK and commercial departure options become available. To get the latest information, sign up for travel advice email alerts.
Further information
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
