

Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.    
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Equatorial Guinea
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Equatorial Guinea, attacks cannot be ruled out.  
Political situation
The political situation has been calm in recent years, but police, military or security forces respond swiftly to any political protests on the streets. Avoid any political rallies, demonstrations or large public gatherings.
Commercial disputes
The authorities can stop you from leaving the country if you’re involved in a commercial dispute. There have been occasions when expatriate staff of foreign companies have been confined to the country for prolonged periods. 
Crime
Protecting yourself and your belongings
Crimes range from petty theft and mugging to carjacking and armed robbery. To reduce your personal risk: 
avoid remote areas of towns, particularly after dark
stay alert in public places
do not wear expensive-looking jewellery or watches
avoid walking around Malabo and Bata at night
avoid travelling by road after dark
Taxis
There have been reports of robberies and violent assaults on passengers travelling by taxi in Malabo and Bata. You should:  
use pre-booked taxis or taxi apps
ask your hotel or travel operator to arrange taxis
avoid taking taxis with groups or strangers
avoid travelling at night
Laws and cultural differences
Personal ID
Always carry your passport or residence permit (or copies) with you throughout the country. Security checks have increased across the country. Follow all official advice and remain non-confrontational if stopped by authorities. If you fail to show identification documents on request, you could be arrested and detained.
Illegal drugs and prison sentences
Possession of drugs is a serious offence and punishments can be severe, including prison sentences.
Using cameras in secure areas
Photographing government or military buildings or airports is illegal and you could be arrested and detained.  
Behaviour in public
Showing affection in public may attract unwanted and negative attention. It is uncommon for opposite or same-sex couples to show affection in public.
LGBT+ travellers
Same-sex relationships are not illegal in Equatorial Guinea, but there is no legal protection against discrimination based on sexual orientation. Society is very conservative and discrimination can be a problem for those open about their sexual identity. Same-sex marriage is not recognised in Equatorial Guinea. 
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Money
You can only pay by credit card at a few major hotels including the Hilton and Sofitel. There are a limited number of ATMs in Malabo and Bata – some accept international bank cards. Local banks will exchange cash euros, British pounds and US dollars.
Transport risks
Road travel
If you are planning to drive in Equatorial Guinea, see information on driving abroad.
Most major roads on Bioko Island and the Rio Muni mainland are now paved. In some isolated rural areas the condition of the roads is likely to be poor.
Public transport facilities, particularly on the mainland, are extremely limited.
Drink-driving is a serious offence in Equatorial Guinea.
Roadblocks
Police and military roadblocks are common. You may be asked to show your passport or vehicle registration documents and explain your reason for being in the area. Failure to comply can lead to detention.
There are regular reports of police and uniformed security forces at roadblocks asking for bribes. If this happens, you can ask for a ticket, detailing alleged offences or violations, which you can pay at a local court.
Air travel
The UK Air Safety List (ASL) lists all known airlines in Equatorial Guinea that do not meet international safety standards and are banned from operating commercial air services to, from, and within the UK. Check the UK Air Safety List when considering which airlines to fly with. The list is maintained by the Department for Transport, based on advice from the UK Civil Aviation Authority.
Sea travel
There have been armed attacks on commercial shipping vessels in the Gulf of Guinea. Take extreme care when sailing in coastal waters.
