This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Equatorial Guinea as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Equatorial Guinea to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Equatorial Guinea
For information on entering Equatorial Guinea, see Entry Requirements
A state of emergency in Equatorial Guinea is in place.
People are restricted from movement within the country, except for justified reasons. If you are leaving your house for essential travel, you must carry a permission paper issued by the President of your Neighborhood Community, authorising your movement, which will be issued free of charge. Companies have been asked to provide their employees with permission papers justifying their travel to and from work.
The Government has forbidden public transport by bus.
The use of masks when moving around has been made obligatory.
Authorities have prohibited all mass gatherings over 10 people, including weddings and sporting events.
Schools re-opened and local flights resumed on 15 June.
Health
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Equatorial Guinea.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Equatorial Guinea, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
