The FCDO advises against all but essential travel to:
the whole of Equatorial Guinea based on the current assessment of COVID-19 risks.
On 7 March 2021, there was a large explosion at a military camp in Bata which resulted in many deaths and injuries. British Nationals should avoid the area and follow instructions from the local police.
Travel to Equatorial Guinea is subject to entry restrictions
Equatorial Guinea has reopened its borders to nationals, residents, diplomats and visa holders travelling for business reasons or with government approval
Entry into Equatorial Guinea is prohibited for all passengers(including stopover flights) traveling from the UK
Restrictions on the number of flights are in place. National carriers are allowed two weekly flights and international carriers are permitted one weekly flight
Diplomatic missions and international organisations must submit a list of their personnel and/or family members travelling to Equatorial Guinea, in advance of arrival to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Cooperation, confirming date of arrival, flight number and place of origin. On arrival, you will be required to provide proof of a negative coronavirus (COVID-19) test result, using a polymerase chain reaction (PRC) test, taken within the last 48 hours
All arriving passengers are also required to undergo a rapid COVID-19 test upon arrival
All passengers are then required to quarantine for 5 days, even if they test negative, and take a second test once the 5 days have passed
Those who test negative after the second test will be free to leave quarantine. Those who test positive will be transferred to a health centre allocated by the government and will be required to quarantine for a further 14 days
Authorities may withdraw passports from passengers if an invalid PCR test is presented
See Entry requirements for more information before you plan to travel.
Returning to the UK
Equatorial Guinea is on the amber list for entering England. Check what you must do to enter England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
The Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) advises against all but essential travel to Equatorial Guinea.
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
If you’re planning travel to Equatorial Guinea, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCDO guidance on foreign travel insurance.
For information about COVID-19 vaccines, see the Coronavirus page.
Whilst borders are not fully open and international flights remain limited, the British High Commission in Yaoundé, Cameroon will only be able to provide limited consular support. See Return to the UK and Entry requirements
Be alert and take sensible personal security precautions. Roadblocks and unannounced identification checks are likely. Carry an appropriate form of identification (passport or residence permit) with you at all times. See Crime and Road travel
If you wish to travel outside Malabo on the island of Bioko, or outside Bata on the mainland, you will need to inform the local authorities in advance. See Local travel
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Equatorial Guinea, attacks can’t be ruled out. See Terrorism
