Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Qatar on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
From 8 June 2021, direct flights can arrive in the UK from Qatar at Birmingham, Edinburgh, Heathrow and Manchester airports only. Different requirements may apply for arrivals into Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland.
Check with your travel company for the latest information about commercial flights operating to and from Qatar.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Qatar.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements. You should contact local authorities for information on testing facilities.
From 8 June 2021, direct flights can arrive in the UK from Qatar at Birmingham, Edinburgh, Heathrow and Manchester airports only. Different requirements may apply for arrivals into Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Qatar
Qatar’s Ministry of Public Health has published advice on how to limit the spread of coronavirus, and has introduced a number of precautionary restrictions on travel and events in response to the coronavirus pandemic.
Public transport, including the metro and bus services, operates with a restricted 75% capacity from 3 October 2021. You should wear a mask at all times when using these services. No more than four people are allowed in a vehicle, if they are not part of the same family. The authorities may also stop vehicles to enquire about the reason for the journey.
With effect from 3 October 2021, the requirement to wear facemasks has been relaxed in certain conditions. It is no longer a requirement to wear your mask in open spaces, except when attending organised public events such as markets. You are still required to wear facemasks in places such as mosques, hospitals, schools/universities and shopping malls.
It is compulsory to have Qatar’s contact tracing app, Ehteraz, downloaded and working on your smartphone whenever you leave the house. The authorities are deploying mobile patrols and setting up checkpoints to prevent social gatherings and check compliance with other measures.
Anyone violating these could incur a fine of up to QAR200,000 and/or a prison sentence not exceeding three years.
For further information, visit the Ministry of Public Health webpage.
Accommodation
Hotels are open, and facilities (i.e. gyms, pool) have reopened subject to restrictions on capacity. Some hotels are being used as quarantine locations.
Public places and services
With effect from 3 October 2021 restrictions on the number of people at gatherings have eased. Indoors, a maximum of 30 vaccinated people can gather in a group. If there is an unvaccinated person in the group, that limit drops to five people. Outdoors, a maximum of 50 vaccinated people can gather in a group. If there is an unvaccinated person in the group, that limit drops to ten people. Capacity restrictions also apply in restaurants, malls, hairdressers and outdoor swimming pools.
You will be asked to show your vaccinated status on the Ehteraz app to enter most locations. If you are unvaccinated, entry may be denied. Playgrounds and exercise equipment in public spaces have been reopened, operating on a restricted capacity basis. Restrictions in mosques have eased but worshippers are reminded to follow the guidance on social distance, mask wearing and general prevention measures. Entry may be dependent on presenting evidence that you are fully vaccinated.
From 3 October 2021 schools will return to lessons in person, with unvaccinated students over the age of 12 being required to undertake a weekly COVID-19 test. For further details you should contact the school directly.
Healthcare in Qatar
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 999 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance or medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
If you have symptoms of COVID-19, you should contact the Ministry of Public Health’s helpline on 16000.
If you are confirmed to have COVID-19, you will be placed in isolation in one of the country’s medical facilities, or asked to self-isolate at home for 14 days, depending on your symptoms.
Emergency medical treatment is excellent but can be expensive. Routine treatment is available but expensive for visitors. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation.
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Qatar.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Qatar
Wherever possible British nationals should aim to be vaccinated in the country where they live. We will update this page when the Government of Qatar announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Qatari national vaccination programme started in January 2021 and is using the Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna vaccines. British nationals resident in Qatar are eligible for vaccination. There is a set priority criteria for access to the COVID-19 vaccinations based on age, occupation and pre-existing medical conditions. You can register for the vaccine through this portal at the Ministry of Public Health.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad page.
If you’re a British national living in Qatar, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme in the municipality where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
Qatar’s Ministry of Public Health has a coronavirus page with latest figures and advice on how to protect yourself.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
