This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Qatar set and enforce entry rules. For further information contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to. You should also consider checking with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Entry rules in response to coronavirus
A revised traffic light system for entry to Qatar will come into effect from 15th November 2021. The UK is listed as a red country. For further information please visit the Ministry of Public Health website.
Residents
British nationals holding a Qatar residence permit no longer require prior approval to return to Qatar. However, it is recommended that all residents complete pre-registration for return to Qatar using the portal ehteraz.gov.qa ahead of travel.
For the purposes of entry into Qatar, Qatar’s Ministry of Public Health recognises the Pfizer/BioNTech, Moderna, AstraZeneca or Johnson & Johnson vaccines. In order for the vaccination course to be considered complete, the last vaccination dose must have been administered 14 days prior to entry to Qatar. The need to provide a negative PCR test certificate, prior to travel will depend on the classification of the country of departure. For details of conditionally approved vaccines please refer to the Ministry of Public Health website for full details.
Vaccinated residents
Fully vaccinated residents returning from a red listed country need to undertake a pre-departure PCR test within 72 hours of arrival in Qatar with a negative test result and take a second PCR test within 36 hours of arriving in Qatar. This can be administered at either a primary health care centre or private clinic/hospital - list of accredited COVID 19 testing healthcare facilities. Those aged 12 and above will be exempt from quarantine. There are different criteria for children aged 11 and below (for further information please visit the Ministry of Public Health website).
Vaccinated residents returning from an exceptional red listed country must undergo a pre-departure PCR test with a negative result within 72 hours of arrival in Qatar and enter hotel quarantine for 2 days. A further PCR test or serology antibody test (if vaccinated outside of Qatar) will be taken at the quarantine hotel. All hotel quarantine packages need to be booked through the Discover Qatar website.
Vaccinated residents travelling from a green listed country no longer need to undertake a pre-departure PCR test prior to arrival into Qatar or quarantine on arrival. However, a PCR test must be completed within 36 hours of arrival into Qatar. The test can be administered at either a primary health care centre or private clinic/hospital - https://covid19.moph.gov.qa/EN/Information-tailored-for-you/Pages/default.aspx. Children under the age of 4 are exempt from this requirement. There is no requirement for any quarantine for children under the age of 11 where they have travelled with a parent or family member who is fully vaccinated.
Unvaccinated residents
Unvaccinated residents returning from a red listed country need to undertake a pre-departure PCR test within 72 hours of arrival in Qatar with a negative test result and will be subject to 7 days home quarantine. They will then be required to take a second PCR test on day 6. Release from quarantine will happen on day 7 providing the test results are negative. The test can be taken at either a local primary health care clinic or private clinic/hospital - list of accredited COVID 19 testing healthcare facilities. For further guidance please refer to the Ministry of Public Health website.
Unvaccinated residents travelling from an exceptional red listed country must undergo a pre-departure PCR test with a negative result within 72 hours of arrival in Qatar and enter hotel quarantine for 7 days. A further PCR test will be taken on days 6 and if the results are negative you will be released on day 7. All hotel quarantine packages need to be booked through the Discover Qatar website.
Unvaccinated residents travelling from a green listed country are required to undergo a pre-departure PCR test with a negative result within 72 hours of arrival into Qatar. These residents will then undergo a period of 7 days home quarantine taking a follow up PCR test on day 6. Release from quarantine will happen on day 7 providing the test results are negative. The test can be taken at either a primary health care centre or private clinic/hospital - list of accredited COVID 19 testing healthcare facilities.
Visitors
All visitors must have registered via the pre-registration platform – www.ehteraz.gov.qa, uploading all the required documents at least 3 days prior to arrival. Visitors should also download the ehteraz app and activate this on their arrival either through the use of a local sim card or an international sim card. You will also be asked to complete and sign an undertaking and acknowledgement form prior to arrival. This form is available on the Ministry of Public Health website, pre-registration platform website (www.ehteraz.gov.qa) and airline online booking form.
Vaccinated visitors
Fully vaccinated visitors travelling from a red listed country must have a pre-departure PCR test within 72 hours of their arrival in Qatar, with a negative result. You will be required to undergo a 2 day hotel quarantine (including unvaccinated children aged 11 or under), where a PCR test will be conducted. You may be released from quarantine early depending on the availability of your test results. All hotel quarantine packages need to be booked through the Discover Qatar website.
Fully vaccinated visitors travelling from an exceptional red listed country must undergo a PCR test with a negative result within 72 hours of arrival into Qatar and enter hotel quarantine for 2 days. A further PCR test or serology antibody test (if vaccinated outside of Qatar) will be taken at the quarantine hotel. All hotel quarantine packages need to be booked through the Discover Qatar website.
Fully vaccinated visitors travelling from a green listed country, need to undergo a pre-departure PCR test within 72 hours of their arrival into Qatar. Those with a negative result will be exempt from any form of quarantine. Children under the age of 11 are also exempt from quarantine if they have travelled with a parent or family member who is fully vaccinated.
Unvaccinated visitors
For unvaccinated visitors travelling from a red listed country, a PCR test with a negative result must be taken within 72 hours of arrival in Qatar. For those visiting first degree relatives, you will be subject to 7 days home quarantine. A PCR test is required on day 6, which can be taken at any private clinic/hospital and if the result is negative you will be released from quarantine on day 7. For all other visitors you must undertake 7 days hotel quarantine and take a send PCR test. All hotel quarantine packages need to be booked through the Discover Qatar website.
Unvaccinated visitors travelling from an exceptional red listed country are not permitted to enter Qatar at this time.
Unvaccinated visitors who are travelling on pre-issued family visas, from a green listed country, need to undergo a pre-departure PCR test 72 hours before arrival into Qatar, with a negative result. These travellers will then undergo a period of 7 days home quarantine, if staying with first degree relatives. They will then take a follow up PCR test on day 6. Release from quarantine will happen on day 7 providing the test results are negative. This PCR test can be taken at any recognised private clinic/hospital - list of accredited COVID 19 testing healthcare facilities.
All other unvaccinated visitors from a green listed country, need to undergo a pre-departure PCR test 72 hours before arrival into Qatar, with a negative result. These travellers will then undergo a period of 7 days hotel quarantine. A second PCR test will be taken on day 6. Release from quarantine will happen on day 7 providing your test results are negative. To book your quarantine package visit the Discover Qatar website.
The cost of tests are as follows:
Test type Cost
PCR QAR 160
Rapid Antigen QAR 50
Serology Antibody test QAR 50
Further information on Qatar’s entry and arrival requirements can be found on the Ministry of Public Health website.
Arriving from the Abu Samra border crossing
Following the opening of the air, land and sea borders between Qatar and Saudi Arabia, all arrivals to Qatar from the Abu Samra border crossing are required to undergo a COVID-19 test and obtain a virus-free certificate no more than 72 hours before travel. Further information can be found from the Government Communications Office statement here.
Demonstrating your COVID-19 status
Although we understand that the UK’s proof of COVID recovery and vaccination status is being accepted in practice, Qatar has not yet officially confirmed this. We therefore recommend that you contact your nearest Qatari embassy for advice on entry requirements. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination.
Transiting Qatar
Transit passengers travelling on to another destination can still transfer through Qatar, and many flights continue to operate. You should check with your airline or travel company for the latest information if you are planning to leave the aircraft or transit through Qatar. Flights are subject to change or cancellation at short notice.
Whilst in transit at Hamad International Airport, you will receive regular thermal screening and temperature checks.
You should contact your tour operator, transport or accommodation provider for information on the impact on any existing travel plans.
Testing on arrival
Thermal screening and temperature checks will take place on arrival.
Quarantine requirements
All residents who have completed a vaccination course as recognised by Qatar’s Ministry of Public Health (namely Pfizer/BioNTech, Moderna, AstraZeneca, or Johnson & Johnson), returning to Qatar will be exempt from quarantine provided their last vaccination dose has been administered 14 days prior to entry to Qatar.
For further guidance please refer to the Ministry of Public Health website.
Data collection
Downloading Qatar’s track and trace app, Ehteraz, is mandatory for everyone in Qatar. You will be asked to show the app upon arrival.
Regular entry requirements
Visas
You can get a free 30-day tourist visa-waiver on arrival in Qatar. If you’re travelling for any purpose other than tourism, and/or hold one of the other types of British passport, you must get a visa before you travel.
If you need to stay longer than 30 days, you must extend your visa waiver before it expires through the Ministry of Interior. If you fail to do so, you may receive an overstay fine, which must be paid before leaving Qatar.
You can find further information on visa requirements and extensions on the Qatar Ministry of Interior website
Passport validity
Your passport should be valid for a minimum period of 6 months from the date of entry into Qatar.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are not valid for entry into Qatar. However, ETDs are accepted for airside transit and exit from Qatar. If you are exiting Qatar on an ETD because your full validity passport has been lost or stolen, you must obtain a police report in order to exit Qatar. These reports can be obtained at any police station in Qatar. You should allow sufficient time to collect this report as they can take up to 2 days to be processed. Without this report you may experience difficulties at the airport. If the holder of the ETD is a new-born child with no previous passport or identification, an exit permit is required before exiting Qatar. These can be obtained from the Immigration Office in Al Gharrafa.
Living and working in Qatar
If you’re applying for a residence permit, you will have to undergo a medical test including blood tests and a chest X-ray. The tests screen for diseases including, but not restricted to, HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis, Hepatitis B and C. Testing positive may lead to further tests and possible deportation.
