At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist are available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
If you need to bring controlled/prescription medication into Qatar, make sure you carry it in its original packaging, accompanied by your prescription and an official letter signed and stamped by your doctor stating the type of medication and why it’s required.
Coronavirus
There is an ongoing outbreak of coronavirus (COVID-19) in China, but cases have been confirmed in other countries, including in Qatar. The authorities have introduced a number of measures to limit the spread of the virus.
Qatar’s Ministry of Public Health is focussing efforts on examining incoming travellers in all the country’s entry points, and has published advice how to limit the spread of coronavirus.
From 9 March, entry into Qatar has been temporarily suspended from the following countries: Bangladesh, China, Egypt, India, Iran, Iraq, Lebanon, Nepal, Pakistan, Philippines, South Korea, Sri Lanka, Syria and Thailand. This applies to any reason for travel and includes those with valid Qatar residence permits. Passengers originating from these countries are still able to transfer through Qatar onwards to a third country.
Flights between Qatar and Italy have also been reduced and travellers from there may be subject to 14 days quarantine on arrival.
Travellers from Hong Kong, Singapore and Japan will be tested for coronavirus if they are showing any symptoms on arrival. Other travellers may also be tested or quarantined on arrival. You should comply with any additional screening measures put in place by the local authorities.
You should contact your tour operator, transport or accommodation provider for information on the impact on any existing travel plans. If you need further information about entry requirements, contact the local immigration authorities or the nearest Qatar embassy. You should also check with your airline or travel company for the latest information.
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
You can find more information about cases in Qatar on the TravelHealthPro country page.
Local medical care
Emergency medical treatment is excellent but can be expensive. Routine treatment is available but expensive for visitors. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 999 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
