The FIFA World Cup will take place in Qatar from 20 November to 18 December 2022.
If you are travelling to attend the World Cup you should sign up for email alerts to the Qatar Travel Advice page, so that you stay up to date on the latest developments. You should also monitor the official Qatar World Cup and FIFA websites for more information.
For further detail about what the FCDO can do to support British nationals abroad, see this guide.
Before you go
Entry requirements
You must apply for a Hayya Card. This is a form of Fan ID, which non-Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) visitors will need to be able to enter the country during the tournament period.
You should apply early to avoid delays. Non-GCC nationals and residents will need to hold a Hayya Card to enter Qatar from 1 November 2022 onwards, even if not intending to attend a World Cup match. From 2 December 2022, travellers may apply for a Hayya Card without a match ticket.
From 6 December 2022, GCC nationals and residents will no longer require a Hayya Card to enter Qatar, but a valid Hayya Card will remain mandatory to attend a World Cup match.
If you are a non-GCC national or resident, you will need a Hayya Card if you plan to enter Qatar from 1 November to 23 December. You will be able to use your Hayya Card for multiple entries to Qatar during this period and once entered, you will be permitted to remain in the country until 23 January 2023.
If you are an international fan making a match day visit of less than 24 hours you will not need to arrange accommodation. You will still need to apply for a Hayya Card and must ensure that your application has been approved for each individual matchday visit. You should input the details of your day trip as soon as possible to avoid unnecessary delays.
See the Hayya and Ministry of Interior websites for the latest information.
Visitors will not be required to take a pre-departure Covid-19 PCR or Rapid Antigen test before travelling to Qatar. You will also not be required to pre-register on the Ehteraz health application prior to arrival.
If you are planning to travel elsewhere in the region during the tournament, you should check the Travel Advice page for every country you plan to visit or transit through. Entry requirements, and local laws and customs, will likely be different for other countries.
If you are arriving into Qatar after 23 December, see the regular entry requirements for Qatar.
Health
Ensure you have appropriate travel insurance, and follow the latest COVID-19 requirements, before travelling to Qatar.
Before travelling to the tournament, you should make sure that you have a travel insurance policy that will cover you for your trip and any planned activities. Emergency medical treatment during the tournament is available to Hayya Card holders through Hamad Medical Corporation. Private healthcare treatment is available however it can be expensive. We advise travellers to have comprehensive travel insurance.
See Health for more information, including what to do if you need to bring prescription or over-the-counter medication into Qatar.
See Coronavirus for information about Qatar’s current COVID-19 requirements. Authorities are encouraging anyone travelling to the World Cup to familiarise themselves with these requirements.
Monitor Qatari Ministry of Public Health advice for the latest updates ahead of the World Cup, and stay in contact with your travel provider.
Match tickets
You should check the FIFA website for ticket information and only purchase match tickets from official providers. Match tickets bought through unofficial means may not be valid. Anyone who engages in selling tickets through unofficial means may be prosecuted.
Accommodation
You must arrange your accommodation for your stay before you travel to Qatar.
Booking accommodation for the period of the World Cup will be different to previous tournaments, regardless of whether you are planning to attend a match. Qatar’s World Cup Accommodation Agency website will be the main booking platform, but some alternative options are also available.
If you plan to stay in Qatar for more than 24 hours, you will need to have your accommodation booking validated during your application for the Hayya Card. You will need an approved Hayya Card to enter the country.
If you plan to stay with friends or family in Qatar during the tournament then your host will need to register your accommodation within the Hayya portal website.
If you are an international fan making a match day visit of less than 24 hours you will not need to arrange accommodation. You will still need to apply for a Hayya Card and must ensure that your application has been approved for each individual matchday visit. You should input the details of your day trip as soon as possible to avoid unnecessary delays.
When you travel to the tournament
Local laws and customs
Familiarise yourself with, and respect, local laws and customs.
Qatari laws and customs are very different to those in the UK. Be aware of your actions to ensure that they don’t offend. There may be serious penalties for doing something that might not be illegal in the UK, such as the importation of certain goods. This includes pork products, alcohol, e-cigarettes/vapes or anything that can be perceived as pornography.
See local laws and customs for more information.
Drugs
Don’t become involved with drugs. You can expect a severe penalty for possession of even residual amounts.
There is zero tolerance for drugs in Qatar. The penalties for the use, trafficking, smuggling and possession of drugs can include lengthy custodial sentences, heavy fines and deportation.
For information on bringing prescription or over-the-counter medication into Qatar see Health.
Alcohol
The availability of alcohol, and associated laws, will be different to previous tournaments.
Alcohol is currently only available to visitors at licenced hotel restaurants and bars, with additional availability expected at certain fan zone sites during the tournament. It is not possible to buy alcohol in shops. There is only one distributor in country, and this is restricted to residents with a valid permit.
The legal drinking age in Qatar is 21. It is an offence to drink alcohol or be drunk in a public place. See local laws and customs for more information.
The importation of alcohol into the State of Qatar is illegal. You will not be able to purchase alcohol from duty free in airports to take into Qatar.
Passports
Keep your belongings safe. Losing your passport and replacing identification will be expensive.
If your passport is lost or stolen, you will need to report this to a police station in Qatar to obtain a police report. This can take up to 2 days. You will need this report in order to leave Qatar.
You will need to apply for an emergency travel document (ETD) in order to travel if your passport is lost or stolen. ETDs are not valid for entry into many countries around the Gulf, including the United Arab Emirates. You will have to return to the UK whilst you apply for a new passport.
LGBT+
Homosexuality is illegal in Qatar. Private life in Qatar is largely respected but any intimacy between persons in public can be considered offensive, regardless of gender, sexual orientation or intent.
Host authorities have stated that “everyone is welcome” at the World Cup. They have publicly confirmed that there will be no restrictions on non-married friends or couples (including LGBT people) staying in the same room.
See our LGBT information and advice page before you travel.
Travelling around Qatar
The football stadiums which will be used for the World Cup are within a compact area and transport routes will be very busy for the duration of the tournament. Make sure you plan your journey and leave plenty of time, particularly on match days when travelling to the stadium, to avoid issues.
For more information on travel in and around Qatar during the tournament see the official Qatar 2022 website.
A Hayya Card will give you free access to public transport on match days, including bus, metro and tram.
If you’re planning to hire a car or use taxis, see Safety and security for more information. Road discipline is very poor; speeds are high and accidents are common, including those involving pedestrians.
If you are planning to travel elsewhere in the region during the tournament, you should check the Travel Advice page for every country you plan to visit or transit through. Entry requirements, and local laws and customs, will likely be different for other countries.
If you are planning to drive to Qatar, please be aware of the risks in doing so. Travelling by car across the Gulf can be arduous with limited fuel and rest stops. You will need to be patient and allow plenty of time for your journey. Saudi Arabia is the only country with a land border with Qatar, so please refer to the Saudi Arabia Travel Advice.
There will be specific procedures in place to enter Qatar through the Abu Samra Border Crossing during the tournament, including restrictions on vehicle entry. . See the Qatar 2022 website and Ministry of Interior registration portal for more information.
Make sure you read the rest of the Qatar Travel Advice in full, including Safety and Security, Terrorism, and Money.
