This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Qatar as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Qatar to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Qatar
Qatar’s Ministry of Public Health has published advice on how to limit the spread of coronavirus, and has introduced a number of precautionary restrictions on travel and events in response to the coronavirus pandemic.
Qatar has prohibited all social gatherings, postponed sporting and public events, and closed all public venues and shops, apart from supermarkets, garages and pharmacies. Restaurants and cafes are either closed or are only allowed to make deliveries. The re-opening of some additional shops and public spaces began on 15 June and will continue in line with Qatar’s 4-phase roadmap to ease lockdown.
Public transport, including the metro and bus services, has been suspended around the country until at least 1 September. No more than four people are allowed in a vehicle, if they are not part of the same family. The authorities may also stop vehicles to enquire about the reason for the journey.
It is now mandatory to wear a face mask whenever you are outside your home, unless you are alone whilst driving a vehicle or exercising. From 22 May, it is also compulsory to have Qatar’s contact tracing app, Ehteraz, downloaded and working on your smartphone whenever you leave the house. The authorities are deploying mobile patrols and setting up checkpoints to prevent social gatherings and check compliance with other measures. Anyone violating these could incur a fine of up to QR200,000 and a prison sentence not exceeding three years, or one of those two penalties.
For information on entering Qatar, see Entry Requirements.
Visas
As airports in the UK remain operational, British nationals currently in Qatar on on-arrival visas can only extend their visa twice, by 30 days on each occasion. Overstaying this 90 day period will result in overstay fines. The second extension (ie after 60 days) needs to be done either in person at the airport immigration building (near the cargo area), or by email, attaching an image of the passport biodata, entry stamp and sticker to visasection@moi.gov.qa.
If you need further information about extending visas or entry restrictions, contact the local immigration authorities. You can find further information on visa requirements and extensions on the Qatar Ministry of Interior website.
You should also contact your tour operator, transport or accommodation provider for information on the impact on any existing travel plans.
Health
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 999 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance or medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
If you have symptoms of coronavirus, you should either contact the Ministry of Public Health’s helpline on 16000 or go to one of the designated health centres.
The four main testing centres are:
Muaither Health Centre
Rawdat Al Khalil Health Centre
Um Slal Health Centre
Al Gharafa Health Centre.
If you are confirmed to have coronavirus, you will be placed in isolation in one of the country’s medical facilities, or asked to self-isolate at home for 14 days, depending on your symptoms.
Emergency medical treatment is excellent but can be expensive. Routine treatment is available but expensive for visitors. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation.
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Qatar.
You can find information about coronavirus cases in Qatar on the TravelHealthPro country page.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Qatar, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
