

US has lifted shelter in place advice
The US has now lifted the advice to shelter in place, issued to its citizens on 23 June. Following interceptions of Iranian missiles fired towards Qatar, the FCDO has been in touch with the local authorities and international partners, and reviewed the security situation. British nationals do not need to shelter in place and should continue to follow advice from the local authorities, check the FCDO travel advice page and sign up for alerts.
Regional risks
Hostilities in the region and between Israel and Iran have the potential to deteriorate further, quickly and without warning. On 22 June the US launched military strikes against Iranian nuclear facilities and on 23 June Iran launched military strikes against a US military base in Qatar.
There is a possibility of travel disruption, including short-notice airspace closures, delayed and cancelled flights, and other unanticipated travel impacts.
As a precautionary measure we encourage you to:
read the FCDO’s advice on if you’re affected by a crisis abroad
monitor local and international media for the latest information
be vigilant and follow the instructions of local authorities
take shelter and stay away from windows if instructed. If you require urgent assistance call 999
avoid military or security facilities
check with relevant airlines for the latest updates before travelling
Before you travel
No travel can be guaranteed safe. Read all the advice in this guide. You may also find it helpful to: 
see general advice for women travellers
read our guide on disability and travel abroad
see general advice for LGBT+ travellers
read about safety for solo and independent travel
see advice on volunteering and adventure travel abroad
Travel insurance
If you choose to travel, research your destinations and get appropriate travel insurance. Insurance should cover your itinerary, planned activities and expenses in an emergency.
About FCDO travel advice
The Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) provides advice about risks of travel to help you make informed decisions. Find out more about FCDO travel advice.
Get travel advice updates
Sign up to get email notifications when this travel advice is updated.
Follow FCDO:   
travel advice on X
travel advice on Facebook
Travel Aware on Instagram
