Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Solomon Islands on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
Commercial flights to and from Solomon Islands remain suspended. No passengers are currently permitted to enter Solomon Islands on the weekly Solomon Islands cargo flight. There is no timeline as yet for the resumption of passenger flights into the country. Check with your travel company for the latest information.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Solomon Islands.
Returning to the UK
Travelling from and returning to the UK
Check what you must do to travel abroad and return to England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
If you plan to pass through another country to return to the UK, check the travel advice for the country you’re transiting. If you will pass through a red list country, book your hotel quarantine package before travelling to the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements.
Travel from Solomon Islands to the UK is extremely challenging with very few, if any, remaining routes open.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Solomon Islands
Taxis are available at the airport and are functioning normally. Internal flights are operating.
Accommodation
Hotels are open and social distancing is encouraged but not enforced.
Public places and services
Hotels, bars, restaurants and shops all open as normal. Nightclubs have recently reopened.
Healthcare in Solomon Islands
If you think you have COVID-19 symptoms, you should remain where you are and call the Ministry of Health on (677) 23650 (Landline) or (677) 7522202 (Mobile). You will then be contacted by the Public Health Emergency Surveillance Team.
It is possible to have a Covid-19 test done locally. If you require a PCR test, you can request one. You should call the Ministry of Health – Public Health Emergency Response Team – on the 2 numbers above.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Solomon Islands.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Solomon Islands
We will update this page when the Government of Solomon Islands announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Solomon Islands national vaccination programme started in March 2021 and is using the AstraZeneca, Sinopharm and Pfizer (limited to children between 12-18 years old and pregnant women) vaccines. The Government of Solomon Islands has stated that British nationals resident in Solomon Islands are eligible for vaccination. Further information on the vaccination programme is available on the Government of Solomon Islands Ministry of Health website.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in Solomon Islands, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
