This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Solomon Islands set and enforce entry rules. For further information contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to. You should also consider checking with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Entry rules in response to coronavirus (COVID-19)
Entry to Solomon Islands
All non-Solomon Island citizens must receive prior authorisation from the Solomon Islands Prime Minister’s Office before being granted permission to enter the country.
All travellers to Solomon Islands over the age of 18 must be fully vaccinated against COVID-19 with the final dose of the vaccination being at least 4 weeks prior to the proposed travel date. (See ‘Demonstrating your COVID-19 status’). No-one aged over 18 and not fully vaccinated is permitted to enter Solomon Islands.
An electronic copy of both sides of the traveller’s vaccination certificate must be sent to the National Health Emergency Operational Centre (NHEOC) at NHEOC_REPAT@moh.gov.sb before approval for travel can be given. Applications must also be made or supported by a sponsor (for example, an employer) in country.
There is a fee of SBD$2000 per application. This is not payable by diplomats, UN employees and others deemed essential by the Solomon Islands Government.
Solomon Islands designate countries as being ‘COVID Free’, ‘Moderate Risk’ or ‘High Risk’. These designations are under constant review and the Solomon Islands Government has not listed publicly which countries fall into each category. Successful applicants will be informed which of the following sets of measures are applicable in their situation. They will be required to follow the measures applicable for countries they have travelled through en-route to Solomon Islands.
To enter Solomon Islands from COVID Free countries (and provided their route to Solomon Islands has not included travel through Medium Risk or High Risk countries) travellers must undertake:
One COVID PCR test within 72 hours of expected arrival into Solomon Islands, with the result to be sent with a copy of the Pre-Departure Form to NHEOC_REPAT@moh.gov.sb
One test during quarantine (on day 6 or 7)
7 days quarantine in Honiara. Travellers will be discharged on day 7 if both tests are negative. To enter Solomon Islands from Moderate Risk countries, including if travelled through en-route to Solomon Islands, travellers must undertake:
One COVID PCR test within 72 hours of expected arrival into Solomon Islands, with the result to be sent with a copy of the Pre-Departure Form to NHEOC_REPAT@moh.gov.sb
Two tests during quarantine (on day 2 and on day 9 or 10)
10 days quarantine in Honiara. Travellers will be discharged on day 10 if all tests are negative
To enter Solomon Islands from High Risk countries, including if travelled through en-route to Solomon Islands, travellers must undertake:
Two COVID PCR tests: the first on day 9, 10 or 11 before departure, and the second within 72 hours of expected arrival into Solomon Islands, with the results to be sent with a copy of the Pre-Departure Form to NHEOC_REPAT@moh.gov.sb
Three tests during quarantine (on day 2, day 7 and on day 13 or 14)
14 days quarantine in Honiara. Travellers will be discharged on day 14 if all tests are negative
Quarantine requirements for families travelling with children under 18
All members of families travelling with unvaccinated children under 18 years of age will be required to undertake:
Families travelling with children from COVID Free countries – 10 days quarantine and 2 COVID tests
Families travelling with children from Moderate Risk countries – 14 days quarantine and 3 COVID tests
Families travelling with children from High Risk countries – 21 days quarantine and 4 COVID tests
You should not use the NHS testing service to get a test in order to facilitate your travel to another country. You should arrange to take a private test.
Non-Solomon Islanders must pay for quarantine and COVID-19 tests in one of the designated local hotels. Anyone testing positive will be moved to an isolation facility, their quarantine extended, and further COVID-19 tests will be taken.
There is a complete prohibition on yachts or pleasure craft entering Solomon Islands territory by sea. This applies to all ports and islands in the territory. You may not enter Solomon Islands by yacht or pleasure craft. Mariners in distress seeking entry as an emergency safe haven should make all efforts to contact Solomon Islands Authorities well in advance of entering. The penalties for entering Solomon Islands by yacht or pleasure craft without permission include forfeiture of the boat, imprisonment, fine and deportation.
If you are already in Solomon Islands and hold a short term visa for Solomon Islands which is close to expiry, you should contact Solomon Island Immigration to get your visa extended. If you are outside Solomon Islands and have a work permit, visa or exemption, you should contact the Ministry of Commerce and Immigration before beginning the return process; visa conditions may have changed since your visa was issued.
Demonstrating your COVID-19 status
The Solomon Islands will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 recovery and vaccination record and proof of COVID-19 vaccination issued in the Crown Dependencies. Your final vaccine dose must have been administered at least 4 weeks prior to travel. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
Quarantine requirements
Entering the country illegally and/or not observing the mandatory quarantine period could result in a fine of up to SBD$1 million (approx. £100,000) and/or 20 years imprisonment.
Testing / screening on arrival
All incoming travellers eligible to enter the country must complete a Traveller’s Public Health Declaration card. You must provide full details of your place of stay, travel itinerary and current personal contact details in Solomon Islands for 14 days after your arrival/quarantine in Solomon Islands.
You should comply with any additional screening measures put in place by the authorities. If you need further information about entry requirements, contact the local immigration authorities or the nearest Solomon Islands high commission. You should also check with your airline or travel company for the latest information.
Regular entry requirements
Visas  
British nationals visiting Solomon Islands do not need a visa. However, you should have a printed copy of a return or onward ticket. Check with the Solomon Islands Immigration Department for any other visa related questions, including how to apply for research, business or residency permits.
If you’re visiting or living in the Solomon Islands, you’re advised to get a multiple entry visa for Australia.
Passport validity
Your passport should be valid for a minimum period of six months from the date of entry into Solomon Islands.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents are accepted for entry, airside transit and exit from Solomon Islands.
Measles vaccination evidence requirements
All travellers, with effect from 28 December 2019, will be required to complete a Travellers Health Declaration Card on arrival.
From 28 December 2019, to enter Solomon Islands you will need to show proof of vaccination against measles if you have travelled from or via Australia, New Zealand, American Samoa, Samoa, Fiji, Tonga and the Philippines.
From 20 January 2020 proof of vaccination against measles will also be required if travelling to Solomon Islands from/via Kiribati and Papau New Guinea.
The requirement is not applicable to persons transiting through Australia, New Zealand, American Samoa, Samoa, Fiji, Tonga, the Philippines, Kiribati and Papua New Guinea where the original port of boarding, departure or embarkation is outside of the affected countries. A transit in this instance, means staying within the airport terminal complex.
You must be vaccinated at least 15 days prior to arrival in Solomon Islands and you must be able to provide documentary evidence of your vaccination. Failure to do so may result in you being unable to board your inbound flight or deportation.
For the purposes of entry into the Solomon Islands, the proof of vaccination is required to be in the form of:
A vaccine card (yellow card) or other documentation that lists the measles vaccine as having been administered at any date prior to the 15 days stipulated, or in childhood. The proof of vaccination also includes a medical certificate from a recognised medical practitioner or hospital that states the traveller is protected from measles due to a past infection or immunisation with measles vaccine;
A medical certificate from a recognised medical practitioner/hospital that states a travellers blood test confirms the presence of measles antibodies or that the test is reactive for measles.
These requirements are not applicable for infants under 6 months of age, pregnant women and persons where there is evidence of contraindications for vaccine administration such as immune deficiency and allergies.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
