At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Coronavirus
The Solomon Islands authorities have introduced a number of precautionary measures in response to the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic.
All incoming travellers must complete a Traveller’s Public Health Declaration card and also provide full details of their place of stay, travel itinerary and current personal contact details in Solomon Islands for 14 days after their arrival in Solomon Islands.
The Solomon Island Government advises that anyone who is preparing to travel to the Solomon Islands should self-assess their health and, if thought to display symptoms of the COVID-19 virus, are strongly advised not to travel.
The Solomon Islands has implemented new entry restrictions and enhanced screening arrangements at ports of entry in response to the coronavirus outbreak. Any person who has travelled from or transited through Austria, Bahrain, Belgium, Chinese Taipei (Taiwan), Denmark, France, Germany, Greece, Hong Kong (SAR), Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Israel, Italy, Japan, Kuwait, Macau, Malaysia, Netherlands, Norway, People’s Republic of China (Mainland China), Qatar, South Korea, Singapore, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, and Thailand during the last 14 days prior to arrival in Solomon Islands, will not be admitted to the country. Authorities may allow you to enter the country from other affected countries where coronavirus cases have been confirmed, provided you have not travelled through those countries listed above. You may be subject to quarantine if you develop symptoms within 14 days of your arrival.
Passengers who have transited through or have been in Afghanistan, Algeria, Andorra, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Azerbaijan, Bangladesh, Belarus, Bhutan, Bolivia, Bosnia & Herzegovina, Brazil, Brunei, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cote D’Ivoire, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Faroe Islands, Estonia, Finland, French Guiana, French Polynesia, Georgia, Gibraltar, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India, Ireland, Jamaica, Jordan, Latvia, Lebanon, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Maldives, Martinique, Mexico, Moldova, Monaco, Mongolia, Morocco, Nepal, New Zealand, Nigeria, North Macedonia, Oman, Pakistan, Palestine, Panama, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Paraguay, Romania, Russian Fed, Saint Barhelemy, San Marino, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, South Africa, Togo, Tunisia, Turkey, Ukraine, USA, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom (inc Channel Islands), Vatican City or Vietnam in the past 14 days may be subject to immediate quarantine or isolation as applicable.
You should comply with any additional screening measures put in place by the authorities. If you need further information about entry requirements, contact the local immigration authorities or the nearest Solomon Islands high commission. You should also check with your airline or travel company for the latest information.
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
Other health risks
Mosquito-borne diseases such as malaria and dengue fever are widespread across Solomon Islands. You should follow the advice of local authorities, National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) and avoid being bitten by mosquitoes.
Viral infections are common and you should take precautions to reduce the risks (ie washing hands and drinking bottled water).
UK health authorities have classified Solomon Islands as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For information and advice about the risks associated with Zika virus, visit the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
Medical treatment
Medical facilities are very basic. There are limited hospital facilities and medical supplies aren’t always available. The National Referral Hospital in Honiara frequently runs out of blood supplies and often has a very limited stock of oral re-hydration salts, paracetamol and basic antibiotics. Wards and units can close down at very short notice. Gizo hospital is newly built and has good facilities, but can also run short of supplies.
Take a basic medical kit with you when visiting rural and remote areas. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation. To receive medical treatment in Australia, you’ll need a medical visa before you arrive in Australia.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 911 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
