Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

On 27 March, the Government of Solomon Islands announced the closure of the country’s borders. All international flights in and out of the country are suspended until further notice. If you hold a ticket for an outbound flight, stay in touch with your airline or travel provider for any updates.
Solomon Airlines have scheduled a charter flight on Thursday 30 April. This flight (IE 4710) will depart Honiara at 0450 and arrive in Sydney at 0805. Non-Australian citizens/residents can travel on this service provided passengers have a valid Australian entry clearance, an exemption to transit Australia (details below) and an onward flight reservation on the same day. This is likely to be on Qatar Airways.
Once confirmed, passengers will also have to e-mail the New South Wales Health Authority (moh-covid19-quarantine@health.nsw.gov.au) to obtain an exemption from the 14 day quarantine period.
This is likely to be the only opportunity to leave Solomon Islands for some time. Additional information can be found here.
Future travel options
Travel via Australia
From 20 March, entry to Australia is only permitted to Australian citizens or permanent residents. This follows a similar announcement by New Zealand from 19 March.
The Australian Border Force has confirmed that British nationals can transit Australia from Pacific Island airports but must secure an exemption as soon as possible. You should have onward connections within eight hours of your arrival. This need not be on the same calendar day as long as the airport is open 24 hours (Brisbane is).
If you’re planning to travel via Australia, you should complete the exemption process and then email the following details to the British High Commission in Honiara:
your passport details, including full name, date of birth and passport number (or attach a photograph of your passport details page)
your contact details
when you completed the online exemption process (and any reference number)
which flight to Australia you intend to travel on
The British High Commission will pass your details to Australian authorities. However, please note that exemptions are a matter for the Australian authorities and cannot be guaranteed.
Help and support
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
See more information and advice about staying where you are if you cannot return to the UK.
Visas
If you hold a short term visa for Solomon Islands which is close to expiry, you should contact Solomon Island Immigration in order to have your visa extended.
Your journey home
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Further information
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
