

Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.    
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in the Solomon Islands
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in the Solomon Islands, attacks cannot be ruled out.
Political situation
Demonstrations can happen in Honiara during sittings of Parliament, elections and times of political uncertainty. They can turn violent quickly and lead to civil unrest. Avoid protests and political gatherings and be cautious.
Security lockdowns can be announced at very short notice. Monitor local media.
Crime
The Royal Solomon Islands Police Force has limited resources and police often respond slowly to calls for help.
Protecting yourself and your belongings
Robberies involving violence, handbag snatching, pickpocketing, distraction thefts and harassment happen, particularly around the central market and local beaches. Take sensible security precautions.
Personal safety
Stay alert when walking around Honiara at night. Take particular care in the squatter settlements around Honiara, White River, Lungga Bridge, Sun Valley, Mataniko Bridge, Burns Creek and Henderson (airport) area. Foreign nationals are often the targets of violent attacks. Security incidents in these areas have included:
sexual assault
robbery
vehicle hijacking
improvised roadblocks
sporadic rock throwing
Take care in nightclubs, as they rarely have adequate fire precautions in place.
Laws and cultural differences
Swearing
Swearing is illegal. If you swear at someone, you could face a large compensation claim, or even a prison sentence.
Dress code
Dress conservatively, with shoulders and knees covered, especially if you’re a woman. Wearing beach clothes away from the beach may cause offence.   
‘Tabu’ sites
In certain areas there are ‘tabu’ sites with restricted use and access, for example where only men are allowed. Check with your tour guide or hotel staff.
Land ownership
Land ownership in the Solomon Islands is an important and sensitive issue. On some hiking trails or on many of the beaches around Honiara, you may need to pay a fee (‘kastom’) to the landowner. Ask local advice before setting off.
Illegal drugs
The possession, selling and use of drugs is illegal in the Solomon Islands and can lead to prison sentences.   
LGBT+ travellers
Same-sex sexual activity is illegal, and penalties can include a prison sentence. Showing affection in public is likely to cause offence. Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Money  
Access to banking facilities is difficult in rural areas. ATMs are only available in Honiara, Gizo, Munda and Auki. Only major hotels and restaurants in Honiara accept international credit cards. Make sure that you have several ways to access money.
Outdoor activities and adventure tourism
Swimming safety 
There are dangerous rip tides along reefs and river estuaries. Always follow the warning signs, especially red flags. Where there are no signs, get advice from local residents or guides.
Coral reefs can cause cuts and scrapes.
See water safety on holiday from the Royal Life Saving Society.
Scuba diving
If you decide to scuba dive, make sure you use a reputable, fully licensed company with up-to-date equipment and necessary safety features. Deaths and serious accidents have occurred because basic safety measures were not in place.
The hyperbaric recompression chamber in Honiara – the only one on the islands – is currently out of service due to earthquake damage. Get advice from your dive instructor or dive team.
Tours
Check local advice before travelling to rural Guadalcanal, taking day trips outside Honiara or visiting the island of Malaita. Tour operators do not always follow safety and maintenance standards.
Dangerous wildlife
Fresh and saltwater crocodiles and sharks are common. Visitors have reported seeing large crocodiles offshore at beaches near Honiara. There are also large species of shark, such as bull, hammerhead and tiger, in the coastal waters. Take local advice before entering unfamiliar waters, including lakes. 
Be cautious of local dogs as they can be aggressive.
Unexploded weapons
There are unexploded weapons throughout the Solomon Islands. The condition and stability of the weapons is unknown. Get local advice before you travel to:
Hell’s Point, Honiara and surrounding ridges
the New Georgia group of islands
the former capital of Tulagi
the Russell Islands
Transport risks
Road travel
If you are planning to drive in the Solomon Islands, see information on driving abroad.
You can use a UK photocard driving licence to drive in the Solomon Islands for up to 4 months. If you still have a paper driving licence, you may need to update it to a photocard licence or get the correct version of the international driving permit (IDP) as well.
Road conditions
There are few roads in the Solomon Islands. Most of these are on Guadalcanal and Malaita. Many roads are heavily pot-holed and some bridges have collapsed. Pedestrians and animals are often on the roads, which are poorly lit and hazardous at night.
Accidents are frequent, due to speeding, low standards of driving and poor vehicle maintenance. Be especially careful when overtaking, as drivers and passengers in fast-moving vehicles may open the doors to spit betel nut on to the road.
You must stay at the scene of a road accident until the police arrive. If it is not safe to wait, drive to the nearest police station.
Sea travel
Bring your own lifejacket when travelling by ferry between islands. Journeys to small and remote islands are usually in small, motorised canoes.
Before travelling in any vessel, check:
you’re covered by insurance
it is not overloaded
there are safety precautions in place
safety equipment is accessible and in working order
Extreme weather and natural disasters
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards. 
Earthquakes and tsunamis
The Solomon Islands are in the ‘Pacific Ring of Fire’, an active zone where earthquakes and tremors are a constant risk.  
The Solomon Islands authorities issue tsunami warnings by radio. You can also monitor the US Tsunami Warning System. The US Federal Emergency Management Agency website has advice about what to do before, during and after an earthquake and resulting tsunamis. 
Tropical cyclones
The tropical cyclone season normally runs from November to May. Monitor local news and check World Meteorological Organization and Solomon Islands Meteorological Service for weather reports.
Flooding
Heavy rain and flooding can affect the Solomon Islands. Bridges are often washed away as a result. Check local weather forecasts and take care if you are travelling during the tropical cyclone season.
