The FCDO advises against all but essential travel to the whole of the Solomon Islands based on the current assessment of COVID-19 risks.
Travel to the Solomon Islands is subject to entry restrictions
Entry into the Solomon Islands is extremely restricted.
Effective 10 June new arrangements are in place for passengers arriving into Solomon Islands on the (very) limited number of Solomon Airlines charter flights
See Entry requirements for more information before you plan to travel.
Returning to the UK
The Solomon Islands is on the amber list for entering England. Check what you must do to enter England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
If your return journey to the UK transits another country, you should check whether it is subject to a travel ban or any other additional requirements. If so, contact your travel provider.
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
If you’re planning travel to Solomon Islands, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCDO’s guidance on foreign travel insurance.
For information about COVID-19 vaccines, see the Coronavirus page.
Mosquito-borne diseases such as malaria and dengue fever are wide-spread across Solomon Islands. You should follow the advice of local authorities, the National Travel Health Network and Centre, and avoid being bitten by mosquitoes.
UK health authorities have classified Solomon Islands as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For information and advice about the risks associated with Zika virus, visit the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
Earthquakes are common in Solomon Islands. To learn more about what to do before, during and after an earthquake, see the New Zealand government’s GetReadyGetThru website. If a major earthquake or landslide occurs close to shore, you should follow the instructions of local authorities, bearing in mind that a tsunami could arrive within minutes.
The tropical cyclone season normally runs from November to May. You should monitor local and international weather updates and follow the advice of the local authorities. See Natural disasters
Most visits to Solomon Islands are trouble free.
The Royal Solomon Islands Police Force has limited resources and response times to calls for help can be slow. There have been reports of robberies involving violence, handbag snatching, pick-pocketing, distraction thefts and harassment, particularly around the central market in Honiara.
Fresh and salt water crocodiles and sharks are common. Large crocodiles have been seen offshore at beaches near Honiara. See Dangerous wildlife
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in the Solomon Islands, attacks can’t be ruled out. See Terrorism
Medical facilities are very basic throughout Solomon Islands, including in Honiara. Contact local health providers for further advice. See Health
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.
