

Terrorism  
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.      
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad. 
Terrorism in the British Antarctic Territory
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in the British Antarctic Territory, attacks cannot be ruled out.
Crime
There’s no history of crime. The only people present besides visitors are those working at the scientific research stations. 
Laws and cultural differences
The British Antarctic Territory has guidelines for visitors based on the Protocol on Environmental Protection to the Antarctic Treaty. If you are travelling with a tour operator or scientific unit, check how they plan to follow these guidelines.
LGBT+ travellers
Same-sex marriage has been legal in the British Antarctic Territory since 2014. Further information on getting married is on the British Antarctic Territory website.  
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Expeditions and adventure travel
Tour operators have their own safety measures to reduce risks for different types of adventure activities. These can vary between operator and may be unique to Antarctica. If in any doubt about safety, check with your tour operator.
When on land expeditions, consider taking precautions against:
dangers on glaciers
avalanches
extreme and unpredictable weather conditions
Transport risks
Most visitors to Antarctica arrive by sea. For organised travel, consider using a tour operator that belongs to the International Association of Antarctica Tour Operators. Its members sign up to codes of practice on operational and environmental safety. 
Antarctica is inaccessible during the winter months, from March to October. During the summer, from November to February, landings may be difficult due to westerly winds and lack of sheltered anchorage.
Extreme weather and natural disasters
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards.
Antarctica has 2 seasons: Antarctic summer and Antarctic winter. Winter starts in late April and lasts until early October. It can get to minus 40°C or colder. There is very little sunlight, with it being almost permanently dark during the height of winter.
The Territory is inaccessible during winter. Most research stations are without staff during this time. 
