Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Norway on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
You should contact local authorities for information on testing facilities.
Entry and borders
The travel-restrictions upon entry into Norway have been lifted. The same rules as prior to the COVID-19 pandemic now apply.
All travellers arriving in Svalbard must evidence a negative antigen rapid COVID test result taken within 24 hours before departure to Svalbard and are still required to take a Covid test within 24 hours of arrival. A negative self-test is not valid as documentation. Residents of Svalbard and those who are fully vaccinated or can document they have undergone Covid-19 are exempt from the pre-arrival COVID test.
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Norway.
Returning to the UK
Travelling from and returning to the UK
Check what you must do to travel abroad and return to England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
If you plan to pass through another country to return to the UK, check the travel advice for the country you’re transiting.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you will be contacted by the local municipality and placed in isolation. You should let people who have been in close contact with you know. See examples of close contacts and the rules they should follow.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Norway
The Norwegian Government regularly monitors the risk of coronavirus, and adjusts measures in line with the levels of infection to contain the spread of the virus.
The travel-restrictions upon entry into Norway have been lifted. The same rules as prior to the corona pandemic now apply.
Please see guidance available online from Helsenorge for the latest information on domestic restrictions. If you do travel, check the website of the municipality (kommune) you are visiting as restrictions and recommendations between regions can vary.
See also the Norwegian Government’s coronavirus website for more detail.
Healthcare in Norway
The Norwegian Institute of Public Health (Folkehelseinstituttet) website has a dedicated English language page on the coronavirus providing updates and guidance. There are also two coronavirus hotlines (open Monday-Friday, 08.30-15.30) on +47 815 55 015 for general enquiries and +47 116 117 if you believe you have been infected.
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers and healthcare for UK nationals vising Norway.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Norway.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Norway
Wherever possible British nationals should aim to be vaccinated in the country where they live. We will update this page when the Government of Norway announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Norway national vaccination programme started in December 2020 and is currently using the Pfizer-BioNTech, Janssen and Moderna vaccines. British nationals over the age of 12 resident in Norway, are eligible for vaccination as per a set priority order. The Norwegian authorities have issued guidance on vaccine rollout in Norway. You should log into the national health portal to find out how you will get the vaccine. The council linked to your residence should have sent out an SMS as part of the vaccine programme. If you have not received an SMS, please check with your ‘kommune’.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in Norway, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
If you receive your COVID-19 vaccination in Norway, you can get an EU Digital COVID Certificate from the national authorities. The Certificate proves that you have been vaccinated against COVID-19, received a negative test result, or recovered from COVID-19. It will help facilitate your travel within the EU and, in some countries, you can use it to demonstrate your COVID-19 status to businesses and other organisations. For further information visit the European Commission’s EU Digital COVID Certificate page.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
