This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Norway set and enforce entry rules. For further information contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to. You should also consider checking with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
If you are travelling to Norway for work, read the guidance on visas and permits as the rules have changed since 1 January 2021.
Entry rules in response to coronavirus
Your ability to enter Norway will depend on your personal circumstances.
Demonstrating your COVID-19 vaccination status
Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination.
For those with an English, Welsh or Northern Irish NHS COVID Pass
Those with an English, Welsh and from 18 August, Northern Irish NHS COVID Pass with a verifiable QR code will be allowed to travel to Norway. This applies only to those fully vaccinated with a vaccine approved by the European Medicines Agency or those who can prove they have recovered from COVID-19 during the past six months. Travellers with a QR coded English, Welsh or Northern Irish NHS COVID Pass will not be required to provide evidence of a negative test on arrival, complete an entry registration form, be tested at the border or quarantine after arrival. Norway also accepts Norwegian, Danish, Swedish or EU digital COVID certificate as proof of vaccination or previous illness.
A printed paper version of your English, Welsh or Northern Irish NHS COVID Pass is acceptable as long as it has the QR code. Paper versions of the pass without a QR code will not be accepted.
Travellers already in quarantine in Norway with a QR coded Northern Irish NHS COVID Pass will be allowed to leave their quarantine hotel at 3pm on 18 August without being required to complete the full stay.
For those without an English, Welsh or Northern Irish NHS COVID Pass
For those without a QR coded English, Welsh or Northern Irish NHS COVID Pass entry restrictions continue to apply. You will not be allowed to enter Norway unless you meet certain exceptions. You may be exempted if for example you are resident in another EEA/EU country or if you are a close family member of a Norwegian resident. See the UDI website for more detail on these exceptions.
Travellers who arrive in Norway from a dark red country (which currently includes the UK), without a QR coded English, Welsh or Northern Irish NHS COVID Pass, must present a negative COVID-19 test certificate upon arrival in Norway. The test must have been taken within the 24 hours prior to departure and be in English, Norwegian, Swedish, Danish, French or German. The approved testing methods are PCR or Rapid antigen test. You may be denied entry at the Norwegian border, or boarding at the airport, if you do not produce a valid test certificate when required. You should not use the NHS testing service to get a test in order to facilitate your travel to another country. You should arrange to take a private test. See details on exemptions.
You are also required to complete a self-declaration form within 72 hours prior to arrival and you should expect to be tested on arrival. Quarantine requirements for the UK, EU, EEA and Schengen countries are specific to each country. From 19 July, travellers from the UK legally allowed to enter Norway are required to stay in a quarantine hotel. For guidance on quarantine hotels, including the cost, see the HelseNorge website. You should expect to be asked to complete 10 days of quarantine. However, a negative PCR test taken no earlier than three days after entry may allow you to leave the quarantine hotel early. The remaining part of your quarantine can be spent in a ‘suitable location’. A further negative PCR test taken no earlier than seven days after entry may allow the period of quarantine to be shortened.
For guidance on what the Norwegian authorities regard as a ‘suitable location’ and how to quarantine, see the FHI website. You should expect to be asked for evidence that your planned place of quarantine meets the requirements.
For more details on Norway’s quarantine rules, see the FHI and MFA websites.
You can also find more information regarding quarantine and quarantine hotels on the Norwegian hotline for entry, testing and quarantine:
From Norway: 815 55 015 From abroad: +47 21 93 78 40
A free coronavirus testing service is available at many international airports in Norway.
Further updates will be published when available. Check our advice on things to consider, and be prepared to stay overseas longer than planned.
However, restrictions on the right to enter do not apply to UK nationals who were legally resident in Norway by 31 December 2020. Those who are legally resident will be allowed to re-enter the country when travelling but may need to show evidence of residency. This could happen at the Norwegian border or at an airport outside of Norway. The Norwegian authorities are introducing a residency card for eligible UK nationals living in Norway to help prove their status when travelling. The application process opened on 4 January 2021.
UK nationals residing in Norway and under the scope of the Separation Agreement, can use one of the following documents to prove their residence status on entry into Norway:
certificate of application under sections 19-33 to 19-35 of the Immigration Regulations
certificate for job seeker
registration certificate or proof of permanent residence issued under the registration scheme for EEA nationals
residence card
residence certificate from the National Population Register
receipt for registration under the registration scheme for EEA nationals, dated prior to 1 January 2021
For more information contact the EU Settlement Resolution Centre online here or ring 0044 300 123 7379.
Transiting Norway
Non-residents are still able to transit via Norwegian airports as long as the final destination is not within Norway, but please check with your airline before departing.
Cruises
Information on cruise ship travel abroad can be found on Gov.uk.
You may be restricted on embarkation and disembarkation along the Norwegian coast. You should check with your cruise provider for the latest information.
Visas
The Norwegian authorities have confirmed that if your visa has expired or is at risk of expiring, you will be not punished if you overstay as a result of COVID-19 or airline cancellations. You are not required to notify UDI or the police, but are asked to try to leave as quickly as possible.
UK military arrivals
Separate arrangements are in place for UK military arrivals in Norway, who should consult their unit.
Regular entry requirements
Visas
The rules for travelling or working in European countries changed on 1 January 2021:
you can travel to countries in the Schengen area for up to 90 days in any 180-day period without a visa. This applies if you travel as a tourist, to visit family or friends, to attend business meetings, cultural or sports events, or for short-term studies or training.
if you are travelling to Norway and other Schengen countries without a visa, make sure your whole visit is within the 90-day limit. Visits to Schengen countries within the previous 180 days before you travel count towards your 90 days.
to stay longer, to work or study, for business travel or for other reasons, you will need to meet the Norwegian government’s entry requirements. Check with the Norwegian Embassy what type of visa and/or work permit, you may need
if you stay in Norway with a residence permit or long-stay visa, this does not count towards your 90-day visa-free limit
Any time you spent in Norway or other Schengen countries before 1 January 2021 does not count towards your 90-day visa-free limit.
At Norwegian border control, you may need to use separate lanes from EU, EEA and Swiss citizens when queueing. Your passport may be stamped on entry and exit. You may also need to:
show a return or onward ticket
show you have enough money for your stay
There are separate requirements for those who are resident in Norway. If you are resident in Norway, you should carry proof of residence as well as your valid passport when you travel. For further information on these requirements, see our Living in Norway guide.
Passport validity
Check your passport is valid for travel before you book your trip, and renew your passport if you do not have enough time left on it.
Make sure your passport is:
valid for at least 3 months after the day you plan to leave Norway, or any other Schengen country
less than 10 years old
The 3 months you need when leaving a country must be within 10 years of the passport issue date.
If you renewed your current passport before the previous one expired, extra months may have been added to its expiry date. Any extra months on your passport over 10 years may not count towards the minimum 3 months needed.
Svalbard
You’ll need your passport with you to travel to and enter Svalbard. For more information on visiting Svalbard, including coronavirus-related restrictions, see Visit Svalbard’s website.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK ETDs are accepted for entry, airside transit and exit from Norway.
Pets
Check with the Norwegian Embassy in London before travelling with pets.
