At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Coronavirus
The Norwegian authorities have introduced a number of restrictive measures in response to the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. The restrictions also apply to Svalbard. You should see the Norwegian Public Health Institute website for more detail.
On 14 March Prime Minister Solberg announced that borders will be partially closed from 8:00 Monday 16 March. This means that non-residents will not be allowed to enter the country after this point. This will include those travelling in from Sweden and Finland. Those wishing to leave Norway will be able to do so after 16 March. Non-residents are still able to transit via Norwegian airports as long as the final destination is not within Norway, but please check with you airline before departing.
All British nationals legally resident in Norway will be allowed to enter the country, but are required to enter self-quarantine for 14 days. Those with symptoms will be isolated.
The Norwegian Health Directorate advise that all travellers arriving after 27 February and who have travelled to countries other than Finland and Sweden are required to enter self-quarantine for a period of 14 days after arrival. From 16 March onwards those arriving from Sweden and Finland will also be required to self-quarantine for 14 days. Exemptions for workers crossing the Swedish and Finnish borders will apply – please see the Ministry of Foreign Affairs website for the details.
From Thursday 12 March day care centres, schools, universities, and other educational institutions (e.g. libraries) will be closed until 26 March. There are also restrictions on all public events and large parts of the hospitality and service sectors, including those that involve close personal contact e.g. hairdressers and beauty salons. Pubs and nightclubs are required to close. Establishments serving food are allowed to open but social distancing restrictions apply.
The Chief Medical Officer advises British nationals aged 70 and over and those with pre-existing health condition against cruise ship travel at this time. A number of Norwegian ports are considering restrictions on passenger embarkation and disembarkation. The situation can change rapidly so check with cruise provider before travelling.
The Norwegian authorities have issued recommendations that people avoid using public transport unless strictly necessary. Airports remain open but travel is being discouraged.
The Norwegian Institute of Public Health (Folkehelseinstituttet) website has a dedicated English language page on the coronavirus providing updates and guidance. There are also two coronavirus hotlines (open Monday-Friday, 08.30-15.30) on +47 815 55 015 for general enquiries and +47 116 117 if you believe you have been infected.
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
You can find more information about cases in Norway on the TravelHealthPro website.
Healthcare
The rules on access to healthcare will stay the same until 31 December 2020.
You should get a free European Health Insurance Card (EHIC) before leaving the UK. After 31 December 2020, your UK-issued EHIC might not be valid.
The EHIC entitles you to state-provided medical treatment that may become necessary during your trip. Any treatment provided is on the same terms as Norwegian nationals. If you don’t have your EHIC with you or you’ve lost it, you can call the Department of Health Overseas Healthcare Team (+44 191 218 1999) to get a Provisional Replacement Certificate.
It’s important to take out comprehensive travel insurance that includes cover for emergency medical treatment and associated costs. The existing EHIC arrangements are not an alternative to travel insurance, as some health-related costs, including for medical repatriation, ongoing medical treatment and non-urgent treatment, are not covered. Read more about what your travel insurance should cover.
If you’re living in Norway, you can also find more information on healthcare for residents in our Living In Norway guide.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 113 and ask for an ambulance. If you are referred to a medical facility for treatment you should contact your insurance/medical assistance company immediately.
Seafood
Seek local advice if you intend to eat mussels harvested off the coast and certain types of fish from lakes and fjords.
