Coronavirus guidance is being updated.
Read the Prime Minister’s address for the latest information.

The Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) recommend that British nationals who wish to leave Norway contact their travel operator or airline to make arrangements to do so as soon as possible.
British nationals visiting Norway should be aware that travel options to and from the country are now very limited due to coronavirus-related restrictions. Airports remain open but there are very limited commercial means of leaving Norway to return to the UK by air, and no direct links from Oslo to the UK.
Flights
BA, SAS, Norwegian Airlines, RyanAir and Wizz Air have suspended direct flights to and from the UK.
Widerøe is offering a limited service from Bergen, currently the only remaining direct route back to the UK.
You should consult your travel operator or airline for the latest schedules and information on flight availability, but note that schedules may change. Travellers from Oslo will need to consider transiting via a regional hub such as Frankfurt or Amsterdam and should note that the options for indirect routes are limited.
We know this is concerning for British people trying to leave Norway. The UK government is working closely with airlines, the Norwegian authorities and other governments to make sure options are available for you to return to the UK as soon as possible.
UK special charter flights will only operate for priority countries where commercial flights are not possible. You should not assume that these flights will become available in countries where commercial routes are operating. Please do not contact the contracted travel management company if no flight is advertised here.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
What to do
If you cannot leave Norway at this time, you should:
read the Norwegian Directorate of Immigration (UDI) webpage for foreign nationals that cannot travel out of Norway
follow the advice of local authorities, including local measures to help minimise your risk of exposure to coronavirus
find accommodation that’s suitable for your needs
keep in regular contact with family and friends at home, so they know you are safe and well
See more information and advice about staying where you are if you cannot return to the UK.
Your journey home
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Further information
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
