This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Norway as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Norway to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Norway
For information on entering Norway, see Entry Requirements
If you cannot leave Norway at this time, you should read the Norwegian Directorate of Immigration (UDI) webpage for foreign nationals that cannot travel out of Norway.
Easing of restrictions
From Monday 20 April, Norway started easing some of the restrictions imposed because of the coronavirus. This includes re-opening nurseries and schools for younger children. Businesses such as hairdressers are also permitted to open.
Details on what the new rules allow and timings are available on the Norwegian Government’s official coronavirus website
Social distancing
Social distancing guidance remains in force.
There are restrictions on public events and large parts of the hospitality and service sectors. Pubs and nightclubs are required to close. Establishments serving food are allowed to open but social distancing restrictions apply.
You can sign up for official email alerts providing the latest information from the Norwegian government here.The Norwegian authorities have issued recommendations that people avoid using public transport unless strictly necessary.
Visas
The Norwegian authorities have confirmed that if your visa has expired or is at risk of expiring, you will be not punished if you overstay. You are not required to notify UDI or the police, but are asked to try to leave as quickly as possible.
Health
The Norwegian Institute of Public Health (Folkehelseinstituttet) website has a dedicated English language page on the coronavirus providing updates and guidance. There are also two coronavirus hotlines (open Monday-Friday, 08.30-15.30) on +47 815 55 015 for general enquiries and +47 116 117 if you believe you have been infected.
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers and healthcare for UK nationals vising Norway.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Norway.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
