Travel is subject to entry restrictions
Norway has announced additional restrictions on travel to/from the UK until 29 December with the possibility of a further extension into 2021. If you were due to travel to/from the UK please contact your travel operator. For more information, see the information from the Norwegian government, as well as from the Norwegian Directorate of Immigration. In addition to existing restrictions, until 10 January travellers from the UK will be required to:
Take a PCR test within 24 hours of arrival and a second test no earlier than 7 days after arrival
Register on arrival
Notify your local municipality where you are staying
All those who have travelled to Norway in the last 14 days are asked to immediately take another PCR test and to inform the municipality where they are staying. Further updates will be published when they are available. Check our advice on things to consider, and be prepared to stay overseas longer than planned.
See Entry requirements for more information before you plan to travel.
Preparing for your return journey to the UK
If you’re returning to the UK from overseas, you will need to:
provide your journey and contact details before you travel
check if you need to self-isolate on your return
The FCDO advises against cruise ship travel at this time.
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
If you’re planning travel to Norway, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCDO’s guidance on foreign travel insurance.
There is a general threat from terrorism. There may be increased security in place over the festive period, including at Christmas markets and other major events that might attract large crowds. You should remain vigilant and follow the advice of the local authorities.
The UK has left the European Union. The rules for travel to EU countries will stay the same until 31 December 2020. This page will be updated with country-specific information for travellers to Norway as things change. Sign up for email alerts and view the latest updates for UK nationals travelling to and living in Europe.
Around 581,000 British nationals visit Norway every year. Most visits are trouble-free.
If you’re living in or moving to Norway, read the Living in Norway guide in addition to this travel advice.
Norway has extended the temporary border controls on its internal Schengen border until further notice. These border controls take place at ports with ferry traffic from Sweden, Denmark and Germany. Make sure you carry a valid passport on all these routes.
Terrorist attacks in Norway can’t be ruled out. See Terrorism
Petty crime does occur but at a low level compared to other European countries. See Crime
There has been an increase in avalanche activity. Follow local advice, stay on-piste and only ski in recommended areas. See Visiting in winter
To contact the Norwegian emergency services, call 110 (fire), 112 (police) or 113 (ambulance).
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.
The Overseas Business Risk service offers information and advice for British companies operating overseas on how to manage political, economic, and business security-related risks.
