Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Ecuador on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
Commercial flights are operating to and from Ecuador, however due to the cancellation of flights to and from the UK by several countries (including those with transit cities for Ecuador), we strongly recommend you contact your travel company/airline for the latest information. All land borders with Peru and Colombia remain closed until further notice.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Ecuador.
Returning to the UK
Travelling from and returning to the UK
Check what you must do to travel abroad and return to England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
If you plan to pass through another country to return to the UK, check the travel advice for the country you’re transiting. If you will pass through a red list country, book your hotel quarantine package before travelling to the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements. You should contact local authorities for information on testing facilities (available in Spanish only).
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Ecuador
The Ecuadorean government provides coronavirus-related information on the Coronavirus Ecuador website. The Ministry of Public Health (MSP) also provides an information page. However, the most up to date information is accessible via their Twitter account.
Public spaces and services
Power to impose traffic restrictions and controls on social gatherings lies with local municipalities and other competent authorities, in conjunction with Ecuador’s National Emergency Operations Committee (COE).
Please check more detailed information with local authorities – details below - to ensure that you comply with any local restrictions, including vehicle circulation restrictions in your area.
The general nationwide biosecurity measures include:
extra precaution advised for people over 60 years old, and those whose medical conditions make them vulnerable to COVID-19
mandatory use of face masks in public spaces
all individuals to comply with social distancing measures and practice frequent hand washing
in-person school classes were suspended in 2020. However, voluntary blended classes (mix of in-person and online) have been progressively allowed to take place, since 7 June 2021, if the school’s COVID action plan has been properly approved by the National Emergency Operations Committee (COE)
remote working continues to be encouraged
the reopening of beaches will continue to be monitored via the “Distancia2” app
authorised labs to undertake COVID-19 tests
a nationwide tracing app ( ̔ASI Ecuador̕ ) is available to alert people if they have been in contact with a confirmed COVID-19 case during the last 15 days. The app is supported via Bluetooth and maintains the confidentiality of users
the land border with Peru remains closed until further notice. However, Ecuadorean nationals and foreign residents may be allowed to enter Ecuador via the Rumichaca and the Huaquillas northern and southern border checkpoints
the land border with Colombia (Rumichaca) opened on 17 December 2021 to all travellers, but only through the ‘Rumichaca’ international check-point, from 0800 to 1700. You are required to present your COVID-19 complete dose vaccination card and a negative PCR test result
most ports remain closed for travel/tourism activities. Only cargo services are allowed. As of October 2021, international cruise ship operations are permitted in Esmeraldas, Guayaquil, Manta and Puerto Baquerizo ports
On 21 December, Ecuador’s National Emergency Operations Committee (COE) announced that all local municipalities are requested to implement the following restrictions from 23 December 2021 until 23 January 2022:
maximum public attendance capacity of 75% in fairs, shopping centres, markets, supermarkets (in addition only one person per family may enter at a time), museums and financial and government establishments;
maximum public attendance capacity of 50% in restaurants, food courts, places of worship, entrepreneurship fairs, cinemas and theatres, gyms, thermal baths and spas; the selling and consumption of food and drinks at cinemas and theatres is not permitted;
closure of bars, clubs and convention centres, and prohibition of public and private events, including: receptions, concerts, processions, religious events in public spaces, New Year’s Eve celebrations, traditional festive gatherings and local neighbourhood events;
strict compliance with biosecurity protocols, use of face mask, frequent hand-washing, appropriate ventilation and social distancing;
local governments which have beaches/bathing areas to establish a maximum public attendance capacity of 75% and opening hours of 06:00 until 18:00;
the National Sanitary Authority will issue a regulation requiring all people over 12 to present their COVID-19 vaccination card (showing 2 complete doses) to enter any establishment that attends the public (for example, but not limited to, banks, shops, restaurants etc)offices . This will not apply to public sector institutions, including those relating to . The national police will be in charge of enforcement together with any relevant local authority;
Increasing of transport frequencies to 100%
Please note that the power to impose these restrictions rests with local authorities, and the COE may only make recommendations. As a result you may see some discrepancies between local areas (see advice for Quito below).
The power to impose further restrictions, including curfew hours, transit and other controls on social gatherings lies with local municipalities and other competent authorities, in conjunction with Ecuador’s National Emergency Operations Committee (COE).
Please check more detailed information with local authorities – details below - to ensure that you comply with any local restrictions, including vehicle circulation restrictions in your area.
Restrictions
The central government´s “red, amber, green” alert system is no longer in force. However, it will be used as an internal management tool for epidemiological monitoring.
Each municipal government is responsible for determining its own specific restrictions including, but not limited to, maximum capacity for public transport, the circulation of private vehicles against licence plate numbers, health prevention protocols for all businesses and industries and alcohol sale and consumption.
We strongly recommend that you follow the local municipalities’ social media channels to obtain the most up to date notifications, but bear in mind that these might change at any time:
Quito: @MunicipioQuito; Guayaquil: @alcaldiagye; Cuenca: @MunicipioCuenca; Galapagos: @CGGalapagos
Ecuador’s National Emergency Operations Committee (COE) has a website with their official resolutions (Spanish only).
Within the national health emergency, the Ecuadorean Ministry of Health will continue to issue the required health prevention measures, including PCR tests and any mandatory self-isolation (Aislamiento Preventivo Obligatorio – APO) requirements.
Restrictions in Quito
Quito Municipality continues with its campaign to increase testing and triage. In addition to adhering to the standard general biosecurity measures, you must also carry an identity card at all times.
All COVID-19 measures will continue to be enforced robustly and infringements will be handled by the relevant competent authorities.
The “Hoy No Circula” circulation private vehicle restriction system is no longer in place; the former “Pico y Placa” system was reinstated from 4 November 2021.
Vehicles with number plates ending in the following numbers will have restrictions on the given days below, and will not be allowed to circulate from 06:00 to 09.30 and from 16:00 to 21:00 on the assigned days: Monday: 0, 1; Tuesday: 2, 3; Wednesday 4, 5; Thursday 6, 7 and Friday 8, 9.
There are no vehicle restrictions to circulate at the weekends and on official public holidays.
Special safe passage documents (“salvoconductos”) are no longer valid and cannot be used during “Pico y Placa”. However, “Pico y Placa” does not apply to over 65 year-olds who drive their own vehicle.
Other restrictions in Quito announced on 22 December are:
sporting activities that cannot comply with the minimum distancing requirements are suspended temporarily.
you will be fined 50% of the minimum monthly salary if you are found drinking in public spaces (including inside vehicles).
bars, clubs, entertainment centres can operate with a maximum capacity of 30%
Maximum capacity for transport set at 75%
maximum capacity of 65% in shopping centres, markets, supermarkets and gyms
financial institutions will have a 60% maximum capacity
for corporate and academic events, conventions and receptions in closed spaces the maximum capacity will be 70% and for open spaces 80%
Visit the Quito “Mariscal Sucre” International Airport website for details on their COVID-19 protocols and health measures for passengers.
Visit the Guayaquil “Jose Joaquin de Olmedo” International Airport website for general information on COVID-19 measures and related FAQ (in Spanish).
Healthcare in Ecuador
If you present symptoms while in Ecuador, you should call 171 (Spanish only) and you will be assisted by trained Ministry of Public Health (MSP) personnel. You can also call 911, which has some English-speaking operators. For further information (in Spanish), follow the Ministry of Public Health official social media channels @Salud_Ec.
The authorities have allowed for private COVID-19 tests to be carried out in laboratories approved by the Ministry of Health. On 20 April 2021, the central government set a maximum reference fee for these tests.
Most private labs offer testing at home or at hotels; the tests are easy to arrange at an extra fee. Quito and Guayaquil international airports also have private labs in place for COVID-19 tests.
Pharmacies in Ecuador are known as “farmacias”. They can be easily found in the main cities, but potentially less accessible in rural areas. Most pharmacies in Ecuador will have a delivery service.
The Ecuadorean government recommends the “SaludEC” app, a new platform to support COVID-19 response, by registering for general reports and official announcements. It provides information to evaluate potential COVID-19 symptoms. It also allows online medical checks and scheduling appointments at Ministry of Public Health centres for non-coronavirus needs.
If you test positive for COVID-19 in Ecuador before returning to the UK
If you receive a positive COVID-19 test in country, you should seek medical assistance by contacting either a public or private doctor to advise you on treatment and mandatory self-isolation measures, in private accommodation or hotel of your choice. There are no quarantine facilities in Ecuador.
If your condition deteriorates, you can call 911 or directly approach a private or public hospital or medical centre to seek assistance.
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
It is your responsibility to comply with the required 10 days of self-isolation if you test positive.
Minors (under 18) have to comply with the same self-isolation requirements. They will be denied access to hotels without an adult.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Ecuador.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Ecuador
We will update this page when the Government of Ecuador announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Ecuador national vaccination programme (“Plan de Vacunación 9/100”) started in February 2021 and is using the AstraZeneca, Pfizer-BioNTech, Moderna, Sinovac and CanSino vaccines. British nationals resident in Ecuador are eligible for the vaccine if they choose to join the programme.
The Ministry of Public Health (MSP) has partnered with the National Electoral Council (CNE) to use the electoral roll to determine who needs to be vaccinated, and where. This means that if you did not register to vote in the latest Ecuadorean elections you may not currently be registered for vaccination. You can check if you are registered by accessing the new official website (available in Spanish only) and entering your Ecuadorean ID number (“cédula”) and your date of birth.
If you live in Ecuador, and for any reason you do not have an Ecuadorean Identity Document (“cédula”), you can approach the nearest health centre (Centro de Salud) with a valid passport.
Anyone over 12 years old can approach their nearest health centre (Centro de Salud) to receive the COVID-19 vaccination.
Vaccination for 5-11 year olds began on 18 October. Your child’s school should contact you when they begin the vaccination roll-out for the corresponding age group and you will be asked to sign a consent form. Alternatively, 5-11 year olds can also approach their nearest health centre (Centro de Salud) for the COVID-19 vaccination.
From 1 December, COVID-19 booster vaccines will be available for those who received their second dose at least 6 months ago. Over 65 year olds can receive their booster 5 months after their second dose. You can approach the nearest health centre or vaccination establishment throughout the country.
Receiving the COVID-19 vaccination remains optional for all age groups.
In addition to the vaccination card provided by the Ministry of Public Health (MSP), there is an online application form via which you can access your vaccination certificate.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in Ecuador, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
