!
Warning
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to parts of Ecuador.

The Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) cannot provide tailored advice for individual trips. Read this travel advice and carry out your own research before deciding whether to travel. 
Emergency services in Ecuador  
Telephone: 911 (ambulance, fire, police) 
Tourism police  
Quito has a tourism police unit with branches in the north, old town, airport and at bus terminals. There are also tourism police units in the cities of Guayaquil, Cuenca, Santa Elena and Galapagos provinces. Read more information on the tourism police from their website.
Reporting robbery and theft online 
You can report robbery and theft online in English to the Ecuador Attorney General’s Office (‘Fiscalía General’). 
Complaining about tourism services 
To complain about tourism services, email the Ministry of Tourism: denuncias@turismo.gob.eca. 
Contact your travel provider and insurer 
Contact your travel provider and your insurer if you are involved in a serious incident or emergency abroad. They will tell you if they can help and what you need to do. 
Refunds and changes to travel 
For refunds or changes to travel, contact your travel provider. You may also be able to make a claim through insurance. However, insurers usually require you to talk to your travel provider first. 
Find out more about changing or cancelling travel plans, including: 
where to get advice if you are in a dispute with a provider 
how to access previous versions of travel advice to support a claim 
Support from FCDO 
FCDO has guidance on staying safe and what to do if you need help or support abroad, including: 
finding English-speaking lawyers, funeral directors and translators and interpreters in Ecuador 
dealing with a death in Ecuador  
being arrested or imprisoned in Ecuador   
getting help if you’re a victim of crime  
what to do if you’re in hospital  
if you’re affected by a crisis, such as a terrorist attack 
Contacting FCDO  
Help abroad   
See how to get help from the UK government abroad including in an emergency.  
Help in the UK   
You can call FCDO in London if you need urgent help because something has happened to a friend or relative abroad.   
Telephone: 020 7008 5000 (24 hours)   
Find out about call charges 
Get travel advice updates   
Sign up to get email notifications when this travel advice is updated.   
Follow and contact FCDO:  
travel advice on X 
travel advice on Facebook
Risk information for British companies  
The Overseas Business Risk service offers information and advice for British companies operating in Ecuador on how to manage political, economic, and business security-related risks.
