At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Coronavirus
Cases of coronavirus (COVID-19) have been confirmed in Ecuador. The Ecuadorean authorities have introduced a number of measures to limit the spread of the virus. All passengers arriving from abroad before midnight on 15 March were required to fill in a declaration form with their itinerary and specific local contact details, and are subject to mandatory self-isolation for 14 days. This will be at the individual’s own expense, in hotels or private accommodation. The Ministry of Health has made available this [website]( https://coronavirusecuador.com/for more information on coronavirus protocols that also allows direct messaging with the Ministry (Spanish only).
After midnight on 15 March, all international arrivals by air have been suspended until at least 5 April. Foreign nationals are no longer admitted by air, land or sea route. The same restriction applied to Ecuadorean nationals and foreign residents from midnight on 16 March. There is no restriction on departures from Ecuador, but flight and other schedules are likely to be severely disrupted. You should check with your airline, and be ready to make alternative plans if possible. You can check current flight status on the Quito Airport website or Guayaquil Airport website.
If you are in Quito, to go to the airport by private car or taxi, you must carry with you a printed copy of your booking and passport. From 18 March, Guayas province (including the city of Guayaquil) has announced further restrictions. Curfew will run from 18 March until 23 March from 16.00 to 05.00, which may cause disruption in departure of flights. Guayaquil International Airport is only operating for a very limited number of flights for humanitarian purposes and with previous authorisation from local authorities.
All travel to Galapagos has been suspended with effect from 16 March. However, the Government has authorised flights from Galapagos to mainland Ecuador. Travelers with flight tickets wishing to leave the islands should fill this online form as requested by the local authorities. A WhatsApp group invitation has been issued for people to get official information directly, which can be accessed here. The Galapagos Authorities are aware of that the group is at maximum capacity, so we encourage you to keep trying. We are posting updates on specific flights on our social media channels.
These regulations are subject to change at short notice. You should contact your airline, travel agent and insurance provider to discuss plans.
All national parks, museums and entertainment centres have been closed until further notice. All school and universities classes are suspended.
President Moreno declared a state of emergency on 16 March, with further restrictions. All public gatherings will be prohibited. All public services, except health, security and risk management, will be closed nationwide. Only supermarkets, pharmacies, take-away restaurants, petrol stations and some banks will be open. From 21.00hrs on 17 March, a full, nationwide curfew will apply, restricting all movement between 21.00 and 05.00. Vehicles with number plates ending in an even number or zero will only be allowed to circulate on Mondays, Wednesdays, Fridays and Sundays. Vehicles with numberplates ending in an odd number will be allowed to circulate on Tuesdays, Thursday and Saturdays. Journeys should be limited to essential trips, for example to buy food or medicine.
The Mayor of Quito announced additional restrictions on 16 March. Within Quito, all movement in public spaces will be prohibited from 05.00 on 17 March – except for those people buying essential supplies and medicines, health workers and emergency service personnel. All buses, private vehicles and bicycles will be prohibited from circulating, except for the delivery of food and medicines. These measures will apply for fifteen days. A safe passage document will not be required if you need to buy food and medicine.
We recommend that you find secure accommodation while these restrictions remain in force. The Government has emphasised that these measures will be enforced robustly and infringements will be sanctioned. You should ensure you comply, including with self-isolation measures. Specific details on self-isolation are available here (Spanish only).
In light of extensive restrictions on mobility announced on 16 March, Embassy personnel are working remotely, and are in contact with the Ecuadorean authorities to support British nationals in these exceptional circumstances. If you need urgent assistance, please call +593 2 3972 200.
If you present symptoms while in Ecuador, you should call 171 and you will be attended by trained personnel of the Ministry of Health. You can also call 911, which has English-speaking operators. For further information (in Spanish), follow the Ministry of Health official social media channels @Salud_Ec.
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
You can find more information about cases in Ecuador on the TravelHealthPro website.
Other health risks
UK health authorities have classified Ecuador as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For more information and advice, visit the website of the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
The Ecuadorean authorities are recommending travellers to have a yellow fever vaccination if travelling to some areas in the Amazon region. A yellow fever vaccination is obligatory when entering Ecuador from endemic countries such as Brazil, Dominican Republic, Congo, Uganda, etc).
High altitude
Parts of Ecuador (including Quito at 2,800m) are at high altitude. Don´t underestimate the effects of high altitude on your body. Be aware of higher exposure to UV radiation. In January 2020 the levels of UV radiation have significantly increased throughout Ecuador. You should use high factor sunblock, wear long sleeved clothing and keep very well hydrated. Use high factor sunblock and keep well hydrated. If you plan to travel to altitudes over 2,500 metres discuss the health risks associated with travelling to high altitude with your GP before you travel. Check this factsheet for more information and advice on how to reduce the risk of altitude sickness and recognise symptoms.
If you’re taking a long bus/plane journey, make sure you keep yourself well hydrated during the trip and move around regularly.
Local medical care
As with other medical matters, travellers should assure their own healthcare arrangements. This might include obtaining access to anti-viral medicine or to seek medical advice. Private treatment can be very expensive and private hospitals will demand a credit card guarantee for admission. The Ecuadorean public healthcare system provides the same level of assistance to locals and foreigners, at no cost. However, good/specialised medical treatment may not always be available outside the main cities.
Make sure you have adequate travel and medical insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation. For life threatening emergencies, in principle every private or public health institution is obliged by law to assist patients.
There are limited facilities on the Galapagos Islands. If you travel to the Galapagos make sure your insurance includes evacuation by air ambulance. San Cristobal island has a well-equipped public hospital, but Santa Cruz island only has a basic hospital. If you travel to the Galapagos Islands by boat, you may be asked to supply information such as your blood group and emergency contact information when you board the ship.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 911 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.  
Ecuador has an Emergency Integrated Response Service (ECU 911) to respond to any emergency incidents that may require immediate assistance from emergency agencies. Dial 911 to report or request emergency help. Consider using ECU 911 free smartphone application to register any medical issues and to report various types of emergencies involving yourself or others for emergency assistance.
