Ecuador is situated in an area of intense seismic activity. There is a high risk of earthquakes, volcanic eruptions and tsunamis. You should make sure you are aware of the risks and are familiar with the relevant safety and evacuation procedures. In the event of a natural disaster, you should monitor official channels – the Ecuadorean National Geophysical Institute - IGEPN and the National Service for Risk and Emergency Management – and follow the advice of the local authorities.
For information on seismic-volcanic activity and evacuation routes and other useful links, download the “Ecuador Seguro” smartphone app and follow “IGEPNecuador” Facebook (also in Spanish).
Earthquakes
Given the high risk of earthquakes across Ecuador, you should familiarise yourself with safety procedures and particularly the instructions in your hotel. Further information on what to do before, during and after an earthquake is available from the US Federal Emergency Management Agency website.
Following the small earthquake of magnitude 4.6 in the district of Quito (epicentre at 3 km south-west from Puembo town) on 23 November 2021, you are advised to check official sources for accurate information and news, such as the National Service of Risk and Emergency Management, the National Geophysical Institute and ECU911 emergency services. Aftershocks may occur, so remain calm, follow any instructions given locally, and keep your emergency backpack at hand.
On 22 February 2019, there was an earthquake of 7.6 magnitude in Morona Santiago province in the Amazon region, causing minor damage to buildings. On Tuesday 28 May 2019, 6 minor tremors were reported in the north-western part of Quito. The strong, but short, tremors were connected to Quito´s location on geological faults. A similar tremor was reported in northern Quito on 8 December 2019, causing landslides on the road to Guayllabamba.
There was a major earthquake (7.8 magnitude) on 16 April 2016, which caused extensive damage and hundreds of fatalities. The coastal provinces of Manabí and Esmeraldas were the worst affected, though the earthquake was felt strongly in the capital, Quito.
Seismologists assess the risk of earthquakes in the province of Esmeraldas on the north-western coast as particularly high because of its proximity to the convergence of the Nazca and South American plates.
The National Service for Risk and Emergency Management and the National Geophysical Institute are the only official channels responsible for providing information and instructions.
Tsunami
There is a high risk of tsunamis along the coast and in the Galapagos Archipelago. There is a network of sirens in Esmeraldas and Manabí provinces which will sound in case of a tsunami alert. You should familiarise yourself with evacuation routes maps and follow the advice of the local authorities.
Volcanoes
There are numerous active and potentially active volcanoes in the highlands of Ecuador and the Galapagos Archipelago, some of which are currently in a state of eruption. Ash fall from active volcanoes can disrupt national and international flights across the country and can also pose health hazards, especially for travellers with existing respiratory problems.
There is a high risk of ‘lahars’ around glaciated volcanoes such as Cotopaxi. These are flows of water, mud, lava and debris which can be extremely destructive. The town of Latacunga and Salcedo and low-lying areas in the valley to the east of Quito are particularly vulnerable (Los Chillos and Rumiñahui).
Ecuadorean law stipulates that anyone wishing to climb a glaciated mountain must be accompanied by an officially accredited guide.
You should review your itinerary taking into account information from the Ecuadorean National Geophysical Institute and the National Service of Risk and Emergency Management. There are currently alerts and access restrictions in place for the Reventador (amber) and Sangay (yellow) active volcanoes. Airports can close at short notice due to ash fall so please check with your airline and the airport website before travelling to the airport.
The Sangay volcano, located in the Amazon region (Morona Santiago province), has experienced several eruption cycles recently, some with significant ash affecting the provinces of Chimborazo, Bolivar, Los Rios and Guayas but with less intensity in Manabi and Santa Elena provinces. The yellow alerts for Morona Santiago and Chimborazo provinces remain in place (issued on 5 December 2019 and 16 June 2020 respectively). You should follow instructions issued by the local authorities, including, for example, wearing masks and goggles, and keeping away from the volcano and the Upano river.
On 4 October 2017, the summit of Cotopaxi volcano was re-opened after more than two years of restrictions following the August 2015 eruption. You should monitor official sources of information closely before considering a climb.
Rainy seasons
Rainy season usually runs from December to May. The irregular ‘El Niño’ climatic phenomenon occurs every few years and can cause unusually heavy rains, widespread flooding and a hotter climate across Ecuador. The risk of landslides is higher at times of heavy rainfall.
During heavy rainy seasons, you should monitor local media and discuss your itinerary with your tour operator to avoid disruption. You should also avoid river crossings due to potential strong currents, and take care in affected areas. If you are planning to undertake climbing and high mountaineering, seek official advice from local authorities and tour operators. In the coastal region you should seek local advice on tidal activity and take appropriate precautions.
Forest fires
Forest fires occur in many areas of Ecuador, but especially in Pichincha province. This is due to high temperatures, strong winds and little rain, but also people lighting fires. If you see a fire call 911.
