The Ecuadorean authorities have announced that a limited number of domestic and international commercial flights will begin operating from Ecuador from 1 June. Land borders will remain closed until further notice.
The UK will operate a special flight departing from Mariscal Sucre International Airport, Quito to London Stansted, UK on 11 June.
UK special flight
A special flight will depart from Quito on 11 June to London Stansted, UK. The flight cost is £800 per person. These flights are for
British nationals, normally resident in the UK
dependants travelling with a British National
Vulnerable British nationals will be prioritised. Vulnerable non-British UK residents with Indefinite Leave to Remain and other foreign nationals may be accommodated if there is sufficient capacity. Your eligibility will be checked before your tickets are issued.
How to book
CTM is working on behalf of the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) to manage special flight bookings.
If you wish to travel, book on the CTM Website
To book flights on the CTM website, you will need:
full passport and contact details for each traveller
your UK home address and postcode
your means of payment, such as credit or debit card details
The booking website is only available to British nationals. If you have difficulty booking online, please contact us by sending an SMS text message containing only your full name to +44 (0)7537 416 125. A member of the CTM team will then be in touch.
Tickets will not be on sale at the airport. Do not travel to the airport without a confirmed ticket. You may find it helpful to read our guide to eligibility and the booking process for special charter flights.
Financial support for a flight
If you have exhausted all other options available to you for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government to cover the cost of the ticket.
You would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK.
Our partner CTM is also authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO and details will be available when you are asked to pay.
Travelling to the airport
When travelling to the airport, including travel between provinces, you need a safe passage document. Email BritishEmbassy.Quito@fco.gov.uk to get one. A consular officer will respond as quickly as possible.
It is very important that you carry documents that justify your movement, including a confirmed booking, your passport and the safe passage document referred to above. Safe passage documents are required for each traveller.
Once you have filled out the form, you will need to send a copy or photo via email to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs at dcp@cancilleria.gob.ec so they can confirm validity if you are stopped.
Drivers and taxis need to arrange their own safe passage document through this updated website.
Your journey home
The Ecuadorean authorities require all passengers and crew members to wear face masks to enter airports and to board a plane, and throughout the flight at all times. Upon arrival at the airport, you should expect to pass a temperature check to enter. People that present a body temperature above 38°c will not be allowed in. The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
If you’re returning home before 8 June, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others. From 8 June there will be new rules for entering the UK.
Future travel options
The Government has announced that a limited number of domestic and international flights will begin operating from 1 June.
This travel advice will be updated with further information on any future special flights and other options to leave Ecuador as soon as this is available.
Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British Embassy on Twitter and Facebook.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
If you cannot leave Ecuador at this time, see advice on staying in Ecuador during coronavirus.
Departing the Galapagos
If you’re in the islands and wish to leave, whether you have flight tickets or not, you must register with the local authorities to ensure you can be contacted by email. The Government is working to arrange flights back to mainland Ecuador for stranded tourists in the islands.
A WhatsApp group invitation has been issued for people to get official information directly, which can be accessed here and here. The Galapagos Authorities are aware that the groups have a limited capacity, so keep trying.
The Galapagos authorities will require a medical check before departure. Detailed information on this process is being sent directly to travellers via email and Whatsapp.
If you have any queries regarding travel back to mainland Ecuador, you can contact the Galapagos authorities via email at galapagosresponder@gmail.com.
Passengers who wish to remain in Ecuador after their arrival from the Galapagos must comply with a 14-day mandatory self-isolation at their hotel or accommodation.
Passengers in transit waiting for a connecting flight are exempt from this requirement.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British Embassy Quito on +593 2 397 2200.
The British Embassy Quito cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone. This page will be updated when departure options become available. To get the latest information sign up for travel advice email alerts.
