!
Warning
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to parts of Ecuador.

You should also read FCDO’s overall travel advice and regional risks advice. 
Terrorism  
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. You should remain vigilant at all times. 
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Ecuador  
Terrorist attacks in Ecuador cannot be ruled out. 
Political situation  
On 8 January 2024, the President declared a 60-day state of emergency (SOE) following various prison riots, leading to increased crime activity nationwide. This new SOE includes a daily curfew from 2300 to 05000. Exceptions to the curfew include passengers travelling to/from airports who will need to show their passports or ID and their relevant boarding pass or flight booking.
Street demonstrations, protests and strikes are common. While most are peaceful, they can turn violent. You should: 
stay alert and monitor local media  
avoid large gatherings 
follow updates from the ECU 911 emergency services 
be wary of unverified information 
allow extra time to reach your destination  
check road conditions (in Spanish) on the Ecuadorean government website 
Even peaceful protests can lead to travel disruption.
Crime 
Protecting yourself and your belongings  
Mugging and pickpocketing are common. The methods criminals use include: 
distraction techniques (for example, requests for assistance, squirting liquids on to you, staged fights and pushing or shoving) 
bag snatching at knife or gunpoint by a passenger on a motorbike  
To reduce your risk: 
stay alert in public places  
avoid walking alone in quiet areas or at night 
do not wear expensive jewellery in public 
carry only the money you need for the day 
take care of your credit cards 
watch your bags on public transport and wear your rucksack on the front of your body 
carry a colour copy of your passport, including the visa entry stamp page – keep the original safe 
Violent crime and armed robbery 
Armed robbery is a risk throughout Ecuador. Crimes with the threat of violence, such as gunpoint robbery and home invasion, have occurred throughout Ecuador.  
Take particular care in Esmeraldas and Guayas provinces and get local advice on where to visit. Armed thieves have stopped vehicles and threatened passengers.  
Most violent crime is gang-related, but tourists can be affected. The murder rate in Guayaquil is very high, but is mainly gang-related. You should be particularly cautious in Guayaquil city centre, southern parts of the city and port areas.  
Since March 2023, organised crime gangs have caused small explosions and made false bomb threats in Quito and Guayaquil. If you’re near an incident, follow the instructions of police and local authorities. 
Get local advice about the area you’re visiting and travel in a group when possible. 
ATM and bank customer robbery 
Take care when withdrawing money from a bank or ATM. There have been violent robberies outside banks. The Ecuadorean national police offers a free escort service if you are withdrawing or depositing large quantities of cash. To request this service, call 911. Only take out as much money as you need. 
Transport robbery 
There is a risk of robbery and pickpocketing on interstate transport and at bus stations, including on routes commonly used by tourists. To reduce your risk: 
avoid road travel after dark 
keep valuables safe in a money belt or inside pocket 
do not store bags in overhead luggage spaces or under your seat 
Criminals pose as bus inspectors in some Quito bus stations. They might insist you place your luggage overhead so an accomplice can steal it later. You do not have to place belongings overhead. 
If you’re robbed, do not resist attackers or do anything that puts you at greater risk. Report the incident to police as soon as possible.  
Sexual assault 
Serious sexual assaults and attacks against foreign women have happened in Ecuador, in particular in the tourist beach town of Montañita in Santa Elena Province. Check reviews of your accommodation to make sure it is reputable and secure, even if you’re travelling in a group. Avoid travel after dark and be alert to the use of date rape and other drugs in drinks. If you feel unwell, seek urgent help from the police or nearest health centre. Call 911 for the emergency services. 
See information for victims of rape and sexual assault in Ecuador. 
You can report gender-based violence to the Prosecutor Office (‘Fiscalía’) online.  
Criminal kidnappings  
There is a risk of express kidnappings. Victims of this type of kidnapping are usually taken to ATMs to withdraw as much cash as possible before they’re released. They can be targeted or selected at random. It can happen in registered and illegal taxis. If this happens, follow the kidnapper’s instructions.
Business people or visitors perceived to be wealthy may be targeted by kidnappers in search of payouts.
Drug-assisted robbery 
Criminals may drug victims to rob them. Homemade versions of the drug scopolamine subdue victims and cause amnesia. Scopolamine is absorbed through the skin and can be rubbed onto your hand, face or body without you realising. Be wary if a stranger approaches your offering you something (for example, food, drinks, leaflets and perfume samples), even they’re friendly or well-dressed.
Laws and cultural differences  
Personal ID 
By law you must carry ID. Always carry a copy of your passport, including the pages with your photograph and Ecuadorean entry stamp. 
Illegal drugs and prison sentences 
The penalties for drug trafficking or drug use are harsh, and prison conditions are very basic.  
‘Spiritual cleansing’ hallucinogens 
People use traditional hallucinogens, such as Ayahuasca or San Pedro, in Ecuador. These substances are marketed to tourists for ‘spiritual cleansing’ rituals. They often contain dimethyltryptamine (DMT), a strong hallucinogen that is illegal in the UK.  
There are many risks when taking these substances including: 
serious illness and death 
assault and robbery while intoxicated 
lack of nearby medical help as these ceremonies often take place in remote locations  
Consumption of traditional hallucinogens is unregulated. 
LGBT+ travellers 
Same-sex relations are legal in Ecuador. However, local attitudes towards the LGBT+ community can be conservative and there is still societal discrimination. People may be less tolerant of same-sex couples showing affection in public than they are in the UK. Showing affection may attract negative attention, especially in small towns. Transgender people in particular could face unwanted attention. 
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers. 
Money 
US dollars and 5, 10, 25 and 50 centavos coins minted in Ecuador are the only legal currencies. Credit cards and travellers cheques are generally accepted in cities but not elsewhere in the country.
Outdoor activities and adventure tourism  
Volunteer and adventure activities 
If you join a volunteer or adventure expedition programme, make sure the UK organisation responsible for travel has an official agent in Ecuador able to handle an emergency. Be wary of unauthorised intermediaries (‘enganchadores’) trying to offer you cheap hotels or tour deals. 
British nationals have died while rafting, kayaking and on canopy walks and zip-lines. Make sure you’re fit enough for these activities and others like bungee jumping and quad biking. For water adventure sports, make sure the weather conditions and river currents are safe. 
You should: 
only use reputable tour operators with a specific licence to provide these services 
be aware equipment may not meet UK safety and insurance standards 
check the company uses the most up-to-date equipment and safety features 
check the company is properly insured 
make sure your insurance covers all your activities 
Swimming safety 
There is a risk of drowning caused by strong, rapidly changing ocean currents. Beaches do not always have swimming safety warning flags. Seek local advice on tidal activity. 
See water safety on holiday from the Royal Life Saving Society.
Hiking and mountaineering 
If you’re hiking in Ecuador, prepare for high altitude and unpredictable climates. Many rural areas of Ecuador, including Galapagos Islands, do not have a good mobile phone signal, so you may not be able to phone in an emergency. 
You should: 
climb at a moderate rate so your body can adjust 
stay well hydrated 
keep to established paths or use an experienced guide 
make sure someone knows where you’re going and when you plan to return 
avoid walking alone 
For more information on climbing or mountaineering, see the Ministry of Environment, Ministry of Tourism and Chimborazo Local Government. 
Pichincha volcano  
Tourists take day trips to Pichincha volcano on the cable car (‘teleférico’) from Quito. There have been accidents on the route to one of the peaks, Rucu Pichincha, including deaths from hypothermia. You should: 
be aware of the risk of altitude sickness  
take warm, waterproof clothing and high-factor sunblock 
go with an accredited specialised guide who knows the route 
start early to reduce risks from unexpected heavy mist or storms 
Lightning has killed tourists climbing Pichincha. Watch the weather and reconsider your plans if conditions look bad. 
Chimborazo Reserve  
To visit Chimborazo Reserve, you must email chimborazo@ambiente.gob.ec at least 5 days in advance to register on the Sistema de Información de Biodiversidad. The reserve is only open for tour operators and accredited mountaineering clubs after an avalanche killed 3 climbers in 2021. The authorities can restrict mountaineering at short notice. 
Cotopaxi National Park 
High mountaineering in Cotopaxi National Park is restricted. For information, see the Ecuadorean Ministry of Environment. 
If you’re visiting Cotopaxi National Park, carry: 
a mask, sunglasses and hat 
clothing that covers your skin 
enough water and food 
an emergency kit 
For more information, check the Ecuadorean Ministry of Tourism. 
Climbing mountains with glaciers  
It is illegal to climb a glaciated mountain without an official accredited guide.
Transport risks  
Road travel  
If you are planning to drive in Ecuador, see information on driving abroad. 
You can use a UK photocard driving licence to drive in Ecuador for the first 6 months after you arrive. After that period, you can take an Ecuadorian driving test to be able to continue to drive on your UK licence. If you still have a paper UK driving licence, you may need to update it to a photocard licence or get the correct version of the international driving permit (IDP) as well.  
Always carry your passport, driving licence and vehicle registration with you in the vehicle.  
Hire car companies often have stricter requirements for their customers, such as 6 months of driving experience since your license was issued, 18 year old minimum age and holding an IDP. 
Some cities do not allow vehicles with Ecuadorian plates to drive on certain days or at peak times based on the last digits of their car’s registration plate. Check for restrictions before you drive. You could be fined if you do not follow the rules.  
Driving conditions 
Ecuador has one of the highest rates of road accidents in Latin America due to careless driving, speeding and badly maintained vehicles. There have been many deaths, including British nationals.  
In Ecuador: 
road conditions vary 
heavy rains and mudslides often cause roads to be closed or wash away  
driving can be erratic – be prepared to stop unexpectedly  
vehicles may move slowly, change lanes without indicating or jump red lights 
many drivers are uninsured 
drivers often ignore zebra crossings 
Always wear a seat belt. If you’re a passenger in a speeding vehicle, ask the driver to slow down. 
Taxis  
Book taxis through your hotel or by calling a known radio-dispatched taxi service. Travel in a group if possible. Using unregistered taxis significantly increases your risk of becoming a crime victim.  
Ride sharing services are available in larger cities. While they do provide the driver’s details, the services themselves are unregulated. 
If you’re using a yellow registered taxi in Quito and Guayaquil, make sure it has:  
a municipality registration number sticker on the windscreen and doors 
orange licence plates or the new white plates with an orange strip on the top 
video cameras inside 
There are authorised taxi booths at Quito and Guayaquil international airports. 
If you’re using a yellow registered taxi in Quito, make sure the driver resets the meter. In Guayaquil and other cities, taxis use fixed prices rather than meters. In these places, or if you or your hotel calls a taxi in Quito, agree a price before you get in. 
Sea travel 
There has been piracy and armed robbery against ships in and around Ecuador’s waters. Sailors should stay alert and take appropriate precautions. 
There have been several serious accidents in the Galapagos Islands involving tour company boats and smaller vessels transporting people between islands. Some of the smaller boats do not follow safety measures, such as holding the right licence, respecting maximum capacity for passengers, checking their motor or fuel and providing enough life vests. Use reputable boat operators and ask about safety features before you book, even for short trips. Check they provide life vests and lifeboats (if appropriate) before boarding.
Extreme weather and natural disasters 
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards.  
Landslides 
Landslides are common in Ecuador and can have a serious impact on travel. Heavy rains can lead to landslides, which frequently lead to road closures. Check the weather forecast if you are travelling by road.  
Earthquakes 
There is a high risk of earthquakes across Ecuador, particularly in the province of Esmeraldas on the north-western coast. Earthquakes and aftershocks can cause landslides, which block roads.  
Familiarise yourself with safety procedures and any instructions in your hotel. If there is an earthquake, follow instructions from the authorities and keep essential belongings, such as your passport and money, with you.  
Get information (in Spanish) following an earthquake from the: 
Ecuadorean National Geophysical Institute 
National Service for Risk and Emergency Management – check current alerts 
ECU 911 emergency services 
The US Federal Emergency Management Agency website has advice about what to do before, during and after an earthquake. 
You can also get earthquake alerts with an Android phone. 
Tsunamis 
There is a high risk of tsunamis along the coast and in the Galapagos Islands. If there is a tsunami alert, sirens will sound in Esmeraldas, El Oro, Guayas, Santa Elena, Manabí and Galapagos. See evacuation route maps and follow the advice of the authorities. 
Rainy season 
The rainy season usually runs from October to May but can last until June. 
Ecuador is facing a severe El Niño and La Niña in 2023 and 2024. This climatic phenomenon occurs every few years. There can be heavy rains, widespread flooding and a hotter climate across Ecuador. The risk of landslides, which can cut off roads, is higher with heavy rainfall.  
During heavy rainy seasons: 
monitor local media 
check your itinerary with your tour operator to avoid disruption 
avoid river crossings due to potential strong currents  
take care in affected areas 
The weather can change quickly. Check weather forecasts. Get local advice on tides if you’re near the coast. 
If you’re climbing or mountaineering, get official advice from the authorities and tour operators.  
Forest fires 
Forest fires happen in many areas, especially in Pichincha province, due to high temperatures, strong winds, dry conditions and arson. Call 911 if you see a fire. 
Volcanic eruptions 
There are many volcanoes in the highlands of Ecuador and the Galapagos Islands. Some are currently erupting, active or potentially active. Check the current volcano alerts (in Spanish). Follow instructions issued by the local authorities. 
Ashfall from volcanoes can disrupt flights and close airports at short notice. Before going to the airport, check with your airline and on the airport website. Ash is also a health hazard, especially for travellers with respiratory problems. 
There is a high risk from mixed flows of water, mud, lava and debris (‘lahars’) around glaciated volcanoes, including Cotopaxi. These flows can be very destructive. The towns of Latacunga and Salcedo and low-lying areas in the valley to the east of Quito (Los Chillos and Rumiñahui) are particularly vulnerable. 
Access to the Reventador volcano (Napo province) is currently restricted.
