This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Ecuador as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Ecuador to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Current restrictions
On 15 June President Moreno renewed the state of emergency for a further 60 days. It will now remain in force until 15 August. This includes general nationwide measures such as:
Self-isolation advised for people over 60 years old, and people whose medical conditions make them vulnerable to COVID-19.
Mandatory use of face masks in public spaces. Fines will be given to those who do not comply. Each city will define the cost of the fine.
Pubs, nightclubs and playgrounds remain closed.
Physical activities in closed spaces will be limited to those cantons at Green. Outdoor activities are allowed if they comply with local social distancing measures approved by each canton.
From 22 July, some beaches will reopen and will be monitored through the “Distancia2” app.
Tourist transport operators (vehicles and boats) will be allowed to provide their services in Amber and Green level cities. Other transport services (door to door) remain forbidden.
Inter-provincial travel by private car is permitted between Amber and Green level cities.
Inter-provincial travel by is allowed between cities that are under Amber and Green levels and where local governments have agreed to open bus terminals.
Passengers travelling on domestic flights between Quito and Guayaquil must present a negative COVID-19 test. The authorities will accept antibody tests (“quick tests”) and Polymerase Chain Reaction tests (PCR) taken at laboratories approved by the Ministry of Health. PCR tests will be valid if taken up to 72 hours prior to departure and quick tests within 25 hours. Tests can be taken at airports. This measure will run until 6 July. From then on, random tests will be carried out.
All public gatherings are prohibited.
Inter-provincial package delivery is allowed.
All businesses and industries must prepare a health prevention protocol to address COVID-19.
The Government has emphasised that measures will be enforced robustly and infringements will be sanctioned. You should ensure you comply, including with self-isolation measures. Check specific details on self-isolation (Spanish only).
New phase of restrictions by municipality
As of 4 May, the Government introduced a new phase of “social distancing” to ease restrictions progressively according to the situation in each canton. The system has three levels: red, amber and green. The Government has updated the measures under each level with effect from 1 July. These measures apply nationwide with the exception of Quito, where stricter measures remain in place.
Each municipal government is responsible for determining whether they move from one stage to the next. You can find an interactive map showing the colour of each city through this online tool. Municipalities can implement additional measures to those stated below.
Several municipalities have now moved to the “amber” level. Guayaquil began this phase on 20 May, and Quito on 3 June.
Red
Municipalities in “red” will apply the following measures:
Curfew restricting all movement from 6pm to 5am *Transactions to buy food and other products are authorised to be carried out online, through telephone and by home delivery, from 7am to 10pm *Travel within the province is not allowed. *Safe passages are required to operate during curfew hours (work and justified travel).
Medical attention is authorised with an appointment, including surgery. Remote working is still in force.
Workers allowed to return to their offices in the public and private sectors up to 30% staff capacity.
Shops are allowed to open with up to 30% staff capacity.
Social gatherings, public or private, are forbidden.
Private cars can only circulate twice a week. Circulation of private vehicles applies as follows:
Monday: licence plates ending in 1, 2, 3 and 7.
Tuesday: licence plates ending in 3, 4, 5 and 8.
Wednesday: licence plates ending in 4, 5, 6 and 9.
Thursday: licence plates ending in 6, 7, 8 and 0.
Friday: licence plates ending in 1, 2, 9, and 0.
No private car is allowed to circulate on Saturday and Sunday.
Amber
Municipalities in “amber” will apply the following measures:
Curfew restricting all movement applies from 11pm to 5am
Shops and restaurants can reopen to the public with 50% capacity.
Funerals with up to 25 people are allowed.
Social gatherings and executive meetings with up to 25 people present are allowed, if social distancing measures can be guaranteed (2 metres between each person, no ventilation systems in place and other biosecurity measures).
Cinemas and theatres can reopen with a limited capacity of 30%.
Archaeological sites, zoos, museums and national parks will reopen with a limited capacity of 30%, except the Yasuni National Park.
Urban public transport, transport within the province and inter-provincial transport is allowed at 50% capacity. Destinations must be in the Amber and Green levels.
Closed pools will be able to reopen for training purposes, respecting bio security measures.
Public and private institutions will be allowed to operate to 50% of their total capacity. Remote working will be encouraged.
All businesses and institutions must have a COVID19 prevention protocol in place to prevent spread among clients and staff.
Doctors (in all fields) are allowed to receive patients with an appointment
Private cars will be able to circulate as follows:
Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays: licence plates ending in odd numbers (1, 3, 5, 7 and 9).
Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays: licence plates ending in even numbers (2, 4, 6, 8 and 0).
Sundays: On 5 and 19 July licence plates ending in odd numbers. On 12 and 26 July licence plates ending in even numbers.
Private cars can circulate between amber and amber or green provinces as long as they comply with the licence plate guidance above.
Green
Municipalities in “green” will apply the following measures:
There is no curfew.
Restaurants and shops can reopen to the public with 50% of their capacity.
Urban bus or tram transport at 50% capacity.
Transport within the province is allowed if cantons are in the same level.
Travel between provinces is allowed if the local governments are in Amber or Green levels and have approved reopening the routes and bus terminals.
A pilot plan to reopen gyms will begin
Funerals with up to 25 people are allowed.
Social gatherings and executive meetings with up to 25 people are allowed, if social distancing measures can be guaranteed (2 metres between each person, no ventilation systems in place and other biosecurity measures).
Doctors from all fields are able to take in customers with appointments
Private cars will be able to circulate as follows:
Licence plates ending in 6, 8 and 0 will not be able to circulate on Mondays.
Licence plates ending in 5, 7 and 9 will not be able to circulate on Tuesdays.
Licence plates ending in 4 and 0 will not be able to circulate on Wednesdays.
Licence plates ending in 1, 3 and 9 will not be able to circulate on Thursdays.
Licence plates ending in 2, 6 and 8 will not be able to circulate on Fridays.
Licence plates ending in 1, 3 and 5 will not be able to circulate on Saturdays. Licence plates ending in 2, 4, and 7 will not be able to circulate on Sundays.
Private cars can circulate between green and amber or green provinces as long as they comply with the licence plate guidance above.
Quito’s special regime
In addition to the general measures at Amber level, in Quito throughout July, a curfew restricting all movement will apply from 9pm to 5am. Social gatherings and business meetings are prohibited. Shops and restaurants can operate at 30% capacity and 25% of civil servants will be allowed to return to their offices. Cinemas and theatres remain closed. Bus terminals for inter-provincial travel will remain closed until further notice. In addition, people must carry ID with them at all times.
Accommodation
You should find secure accommodation while these restrictions remain in force. Most hotels have reopened with a limited capacity and with strict protocols to prevent COVID-19 spread.
Visas
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MFA) has confirmed that all tourist visas will be granted automatic extension if they expire while the state of emergency is in place (until 15 August). Once the state of emergency is over, visitors will have 30 days either to leave the country or to apply for an official extension without paying any fine. Immigration officials have created a standard email to request extensions (“prórrogas”) for visitor visas, by sending their full name and attaching a copy of their passports to: servicios.migratorios@ministeriodegobierno.gob.ec. The MFA has made an appointment system available for visa renewals in Quito: citasvisas@cancilleria.gob.ec. For more information on visas, call +593 (2) 993200 ext. 23007 and 23015.
Health
If you present symptoms while in Ecuador, you should call 171 and you will be attended by trained personnel of the Ministry of Health. You can also call 911, which has English-speaking operators. For further information (in Spanish), follow the Ministry of Health official social media channels @Salud_Ec.
The authorities have allowed for privately-arranged COVID-19 tests in laboratories approved by the Ministry of Health.
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Ecuador.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Ecuador, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
