!
Warning
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to parts of Ecuador.

Your travel insurance could be invalidated if you travel against advice from the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO).
Areas where FCDO advises against all but essential travel  
Coastal Region
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to the Coastal Region provinces of:
Esmeraldas
Manabí
Santa Elena
Guayas
El Oro
Los Ríos
Santo Domingo de los Tsáchilas
This does not apply to airside transit within Guayaquil Airport in Guayas province.
Within 20km of the Ecuador-Colombia border 
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to areas within 20km of the Ecuador-Colombia border, except for these areas in Carchi province: 
El Ángel Ecological Reserve 
Rumichaca border crossing 
the town of Tulcán 
the Pan-American Highway  
Find out more about why FCDO advises against travel. 
Heavy rainfall
Heavy rainfall in Ecuador’s highlands (Sierra) and Amazon regions has triggered flooding, landslides and significant damage to the national road network, especially in the provinces of Azuay, Napo, Sucumbíos, Zamora Chinchipe, Loja, and Chimborazo.
In several areas, landslides have disrupted vehicle access, making travel to the Amazon region difficult. The provinces of Napo and Zamora Chinchipe are among the most affected by the heavy rains, and on 4 July the government declared a road emergency there for 60 and 45 days respectively. Check the ECU911 updates on road conditions and closures (in Spanish only).
Regional state of emergency declared (internal disturbance and armed violence)
A 30-day state of emergency (SOE) was renewed on 12 June due to internal disturbance and armed violence. You should always follow the instructions of police and local authorities. The SOE currently applies to the following provinces:
Guayas
El Oro
Santa Elena
Manabí
Orellana
Sucumbios
Los Ríos
Quito Metropolitan District (Pichincha province)
Curfew hours (10pm until 5am) are in place until further notice, for the following districts (‘cantons’) and/or parishes (parroquias):
Azuay province:
Camilo Ponce Enríquez
Los Ríos province:
Baba
Babahoyo
Buena Fe
Mocache
Montalvo
Palenque
Pueblo Viejo
Quevedo
Quinsaloma
Urdaneta
Valencia
Ventanas
Vinces
Guayas province:
Balao
Durán
Parroquia Tenguel
Orellana province:
La Joya de los Sachas
Puerto Francisco De Orellana
Loreto
Sucumbios province:
Shushufindi
Lago Agrio
If you need to travel to or from the airport for a booked flight during curfew hours, you can do so by presenting your booking reservation.
Earthquake in the Kamchatka Peninsular Region
An earthquake with a preliminary magnitude of 8.7 has struck the eastern coast of Russia in the Kamchatka Peninsula region. A tsunami threat message has been issued by the Pacific Tsunami Warning Centre.
If you are in the affected areas potentially affected by the earthquake or tsunami you should follow the advice of the local authorities.
Before you travel 
No travel can be guaranteed safe. Read all the advice in this guide. You may also find it helpful to: 
see general advice for women travellers
read our guide on disability and travel abroad
see general advice for LGBT+ travellers
read about safety for solo and independent travel
see advice on volunteering and adventure travel abroad
Travel insurance 
If you choose to travel, research your destinations and get appropriate travel insurance. Insurance should cover your itinerary, planned activities and expenses in an emergency. 
About FCDO travel advice
FCDO provides advice about risks of travel to help you make informed decisions. Find out more about FCDO travel advice. 
Get travel advice updates 
Sign up to get email notifications when this travel advice is updated.  
Follow FCDO:    
travel advice on X 
travel advice on Facebook 
Travel Aware on Instagram
