Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Tajikistan on the TravelHealthPro website.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
Commercial flights to and from Dushanbe have resumed with a reduced frequency and are sometimes subject to cancellation at short notice.
Travellers should check with the airlines for up to date flight information.
Turkish Airlines flies to Istanbul on Monday and Thursday. Fly Dubai flies to Dubai on Wednesday and Saturday. Air Astana flies to Almaty on Sunday. Uzbekistan Airlines flies to Tashkent on Wednesday and Saturday, Somon Air operates international flights to Istanbul (Tuesday and Friday), Dubai (Thursday and Saturday), Tashkent (Monday and Friday), Almaty (Wednesday), Moscow (Tuesday), Minsk (Monday and Saturday). A number of other airlines operate flights to destinations in Russia and other neighbouring countries).
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Tajikistan.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements. You should check that the test result can be provided in the correct format and language.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Tajikistan
You should monitor updates by the Tajikistan Government and should comply with any restrictions, health or screening measures introduced by the authorities.
There are no local restrictions or localised lockdowns in place, however you must wear a face covering in public spaces, including in vehicles. Breaches of regulations can result in fines or eventually imprisonment.
Accommodation
Hotels and private rentals are generally open. Travellers should check with the accommodation provider to confirm availability and regulations.
Public places and services
Public places and services in Tajikistan were allowed to re-open in mid-June. Local regulations, including wearing of face masks, should be observed at all times.
Healthcare in Tajikistan
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
If you think you have COVID-19 symptoms, you should contact your medical or travel insurance provider for guidance and advice. In an emergency, contact the Ambulance Services on 03 (from landlines) or 103 (from mobiles).
Testing for COVID-19 is carried out for severe cases only in Tajikistan.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Tajikistan.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Tajikistan
As information is available about the national vaccination programme, this page will be updated.
The Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) is the UK authority responsible for assessing the safety, quality and efficacy of vaccines. It has authorised the Pfizer/BioNTech, Oxford/AstraZeneca and Moderna vaccines for temporary supply and use in the UK. Find out more about MHRA approval for these vaccines.
British nationals living overseas should seek medical advice from their local healthcare provider in the country where they reside. Information about vaccines used in other national programmes, including regulatory status, should be available from the local authorities. This list of Stringent Regulatory Authorities recognised by the World Health Organisation may also be a useful source of additional information. Find out more information about the COVID-19 vaccines on the World Health Organization COVID-19 vaccines page.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Tajikistan to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
If you need urgent consular assistance, you should contact your local British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephones numbers are available 24/7.
