This page has information on travelling to Tajikistan. Check what you must do to return to the UK.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport from the UK, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Tajikistan set and enforce entry rules.
All travellers
British nationals need a visa to enter or travel through Tajikistan. The Embassy of the Republic of Tajikistan in London offers an online e-visa service.
Make sure you are travelling on the correct type of visa, particularly if staying with friends or family rather than at a hotel. If you have been issued any visa other than a “Tourist” visa, you will be required to register with the Consular Department of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs within 10 days of arrival. Hotels may only carry out registration for the duration of your stay with that particular establishment; if your visit also includes travel to other parts of the country you may need to register again for the remaining part of your travel.
The Embassy of the Republic of Tajikistan in London also processes applications for travel permits to the Gorno-Badakhshan Autonomous Region of Tajikistan. Entry into the region, both from inside and from outside Tajikistan, requires a special permit in advance in addition to a valid Tajik visa. You can also get a permit from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or Office of Visas and Registrations once in Tajikistan.
If you plan to travel to areas in the Khatlon Region bordering Afghanistan (eg Panj, Kumsangir) you will need to apply for a permit from the Consular Department of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Dushanbe prior to travel.
Once you arrive in Tajikistan you can apply for visa extensions at the Consular Department of the Tajik Ministry of Foreign Affairs on +992 227-6363 or +992 227-3838 and located on 34 Pushkin Street, Dushanbe.
You will not be permitted to leave the country if your visa has expired and you may be fined.
Land border crossings between Tajikistan and Kyrgyzstan, China and Afghanistan are officially closed to foreign travellers. A number of border points with Uzbekistan are open to foreign travellers with visas as well as Tajik and Uzbek citizens. Some border points with Uzbekistan, China and Kyrgyzstan are open for local citizens or cargo only. You should check for current information on border crossings with the local authorities or the British Embassy. Flights are operating from several destinations. See International Travel for further details.
If you’re fully vaccinated
Travellers arriving in Tajikistan must provide a vaccination certificate. A negative PCR test, issued within 72 hours of arrival, is also acceptable. The test must be a COVID-19 PCR swab test.
COVID-19 entry requirements may change at short notice, and travellers to Tajikistan are strongly encouraged to check the specifics with their airline, including the timeframes for undertaking COVID-19 PCR tests, before travel.
Travellers arriving in Tajikistan may be screened and may be required to have a PCR test on arrival.
If you’re not fully vaccinated
Travellers arriving in Tajikistan may be asked for confirmation of a negative PCR test, issued within 72 hours of arrival. The test must be a COVID-19 PCR swab test.
COVID-19 entry requirements may change at short notice, and travellers to Tajikistan are strongly encouraged to check the specifics with their airline, including the timeframes for undertaking COVID-19 PCR tests, before travel.
Travellers arriving in Tajikistan may be screened and may be required to have a PCR test on arrival.
Children and young people
Children aged 3 and older should follow the rules for other travellers to enter Tajikistan.
If you’re transiting through Tajikistan
Transiting is when you pass through one country on the way to your final destination.
Transiting through Tajikistan is permitted. Transit visas for Tajikistan are required and usually valid for three days. If you wish to stay longer, you must get a longer-term visa through Intourist Tajikistan or at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs after arrival.
Travellers transiting through Tajikistan must provide a vaccination certificate. A negative PCR test, issued within 72 hours of arrival, is also acceptable.
Travellers to Tajikistan are strongly encouraged to check the specifics with their airline, including the timeframes for undertaking COVID-19 PCR tests, before travel. If you are travelling back to another country (eg Russia, you should ensure you have the relevant re-entry visa before travelling.
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
If you are visiting Tajikistan, your passport should be valid for a minimum of three months from the date you arrive and have two blank pages.
Check with your travel provider to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Returning to the UK
A ‘fit-to-fly’ negative PCR result is no longer required to enable travellers to board flights at Dushanbe Airport. Travellers should check the regulations at their destination and any transit points and obtain the required tests before travel. Travellers may be screened by having their temperature taken and assessed for other COVID-19 symptoms on departure from Tajikistan.
Check what you must do to return to the UK.
