

This section has safety advice for regions of Tajikistan. It only covers regions where FCDO has specific advice.
You should also read FCDO’s overall travel advice and safety and security advice.  
Tajikistan-Kyrgyzstan border
The land border with Kyrgyzstan remains officially closed.
There is a risk of conflict over recognition of Tajikistan’s border with Kyrgyzstan. There are regular security incidents along the border with exchanges of gunfire.
In September 2022, armed conflict between the Kyrgyz and Tajik militaries resulted in over 100 deaths, including civilians. There was significant destruction of civilian property and infrastructure. Around 140,000 civilians were displaced. There is a risk of further violence and border closures at any time. Do not walk off-road – there are both marked and unmarked minefields.
Tajikistan-Afghanistan border
The land border with Afghanistan is closed. Armed clashes may occur without notice near the border with Afghanistan. Stay alert and be cautious in these areas. Do not walk off-road – there are both marked and unmarked minefields.
Tajikistan-Uzbekistan border
Some border crossings with Uzbekistan are open.  
Gorno-Badakhshan Autonomous Region
There is a risk of civil unrest in Khorog and other towns in the Gorno-Badakhshan Autonomous Region. There were serious disturbances in 2021 and there have been violent clashes in and around Khorog since 2022 with casualties. There is an increased security presence. Some roads in Khorog, Rushan and other parts of Gorno-Badakhshan Autonomous Region are temporarily closed. The security situation can change at short notice, with the possibility of further unrest.
If you’re travelling in the region, be alert in public places and check for security announcements by the local authorities.
Border crossings
Tajikistan’s borders with neighbouring countries can close without notice. Land border crossings between Tajikistan and Kyrgyzstan, China and Afghanistan are closed to foreign travellers.
Check with the Tajikistan authorities or the British Embassy before you travel to see which crossings are open.
Tavildara Region
Take local advice in the Tavildara Region of central Tajikistan, as there are minefields dating from the civil war in the mountains.
Medical and rescue facilities are unreliable where they exist at all.
