Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

The Tajik Civil Aviation Agency (TCAA) will temporarily close Dushanbe’s airport from 20 March. All flights from 20 March have been cancelled. Airlines flying to the UK from regional hubs are liable to cancel or suspend flights at short notice. You should monitor the airlines’ information channels for updates.
The British Embassy Dushanbe understands that Somon Air is organising a flight from Dushanbe to Frankfurt in the near future, a date is yet to be confirmed. Any British nationals wishing to leave Tajikistan and avail themselves of this flight should register their interest with Somon Air by contacting the Somon Air representative Firuz Davlatov on +992 908 085 666. Please also inform the British Embassy of your interest by email to consular.dushanbe@fco.gov.uk. We will be pleased to stay in touch with those interested in leaving over the coming days. Please also sign up for Travel Advice alerts, and follow the British Embassy on Facebook and Twitter.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
If you need further information about entry requirements, contact the local immigration authorities or the nearest Tajikistan embassy. You should also check with your airline or travel company for the latest information.
Arrival in the UK
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Further information
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
