

This guide also has safety advice for regions of Tajikistan.
Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Tajikistan
Terrorists are likely to try to carry out attacks in Tajikistan.
Terrorist attacks could be indiscriminate, including in places frequented by foreign nationals, such as:
transport hubs 
embassies 
religious sites and places of worship  
sporting and cultural events  
shopping centres and crowded places
Examples of previous significant attacks include:
in March 2024, a plot to attack Central Asian New Year (Nowruz) celebrations in Vahdat using poison was disrupted by Tajik authorities
in 2023, three suspected terrorists were reportedly killed by Tajik border forces while planning an attack ahead of Tajik national day celebrations. There are infrequent incursions by armed criminal and terrorist groups across the Afghanistan border into Tajikistan, mainly at night
in 2019, it was reported that 17 people were killed in an armed attack on a Tajik security checkpoint on the Tajikistan-Uzbekistan border. Islamic State Khorasan Province (ISKP) claimed responsibility
Political situation
Avoid any demonstrations or large gatherings of people and remain vigilant in public places. Be alert to any security announcements by the Tajik authorities.     
Crime
Robbery and violent crime
There have been occasional muggings and petty crime against foreigners in Dushanbe. Take the same precautions you would in the UK. You should consider avoiding walking alone at night.
Do not use unofficial taxis or a taxi already occupied by a passenger, particularly at night.  Consider using private cars or pre-arranged taxis.
Do not show large amounts of money and be wary of strangers offering help or being over-friendly.
Protecting yourself and your belongings
Pickpocketing is common in crowded places such as markets and on public transport. Criminals may target foreigners as they are assumed to be carrying valuable items. Keep valuables in a safe place and out of public view.
Bank card fraud
Fraudsters can steal your card details without you noticing. Use ATMs inside banks if possible, and check ATMs on the street for signs of tampering. Keep cards in sight when paying in shops and restaurants. Read more about how to avoid bank card fraud.
Drink spiking and sexual assault
There have been cases of sexual assault, including rape, reported to the British Embassy. This includes suspected use of ‘date rape’ drugs targeting foreigners. Alcohol and drugs can lead to you being less alert, less in control and less aware of your environment. You should:
not leave drinks unattended
not accept drinks from strangers
be aware of how much you are drinking
not accept lifts from strangers or acquaintances at any time
Don’t split up from your friends, do not leave drinks unattended and do not go off with people you do not know. Save the location of your accommodation on your maps app, so it’s easy to find. See TravelAware ‘Stick with your mates’ for tips and advice.
Intimidation at Dushanbe International Airport
There have been cases of harassment by officials at Dushanbe International Airport. This includes requests for payment for allegedly incorrect documentation or other offences. Check with your hotel that your documentation and papers are in order before passing through border control at the airport. If you’re harassed or intimidated, report it to your travel agent or the consular bureau at the airport.
Laws and cultural differences
Tajikistan has a secular constitution. Most Tajik citizens are Muslims and may be conservative, particularly in rural areas. Respect local traditions, customs, laws and religions at all times. Make sure your actions do not offend other cultures or religious beliefs, especially during the holy month of Ramadan or when you visit religious areas sites.
Ramadan
Ramadan is a holy month for Muslims. The dates vary by year and country. Cafés and restaurants may amend their menus and be busy around fast-breaking (‘Iftar’). Areas around mosques are also likely to be busy around prayer times. Take particular care not to offend religious sensitivities at this time.
Personal ID
You must always carry your passport, or a notarised copy of it. The police can arrest you if you do not carry ID. You can get a copy of your passport notarised in the UK and translated into Kyrgyz or Russian, or use a copy notarised in Kyrgyzstan.
Alcohol laws and bans 
If you appear to be drunk, the police can take you to a police station and issue you with a fine or detain you in a police cell overnight.
Smoking ban
It is illegal to smoke on the street in Tajikistan, and punishable by a fine.
Illegal drugs and prison sentences
It is illegal to possess or use drugs. You could get a lengthy prison sentence if convicted. Prison conditions are basic.
The police are likely to conduct drug raids in bars and night clubs. Stay calm and follow instructions.
Woman travelling alone
Women travelling alone in Tajikistan may receive unwanted attention, harassment or other difficulties. Consider not going out alone at night. See advice for women travelling abroad.
Using cameras in secure areas
It is illegal to take photos of or use drones near anything related to the military or security, including border checkpoints, military sites and police stations. Check carefully that you are not near any military or security facilities.
Drones
The possession or use of drones or UAVs is prohibited unless you have permission from the Tajik National Security Committee. If you are found using drones without permission, you may be detained and your equipment confiscated.
LGBT+ travellers
Although same-sex sexual activity is not illegal under Tajik law, local attitudes are generally conservative and levels of tolerance and acceptance in society vary, particularly outside the main cities. Take care about showing affection in public. Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Money
Tajikistan is mainly a cash-only economy. Very few businesses accept credit cards and travellers’ cheques are not accepted. There is an increasing number of ATMs in Dushanbe and other larger towns, but none in rural areas. Most ATMs only accept Visa cards.
Only change money at officially authorised currency exchanges. US dollars are the most widely accepted foreign currency at currency exchange offices. Euros or Russian roubles are also easy to exchange. It may be difficult to exchange other currencies.
Posting on social media
It’s illegal to post images or comments on social media that show disrespect towards religion, culture or national symbols. If you share or publish images that the authorities consider to be insulting, you could get a fine or a prison sentence.
Outdoor activities and adventure tourism
Trekking and mountaineering 
Trekking in Tajikistan often involves travelling to very remote areas. There is a high risk of avalanches, landslides and rockfalls. Weather can change very quickly, and heavy rains or snowfall can block roads and trekking routes, particularly in the autumn and winter. 
At higher altitudes there is a possibility of snow in the summer months. Sunstroke and serious sunburn can also cause problems, particularly in mountainous areas. 
You should: 
get appropriate insurance, including for any activity at high altitude
use a reputable trekking agency
let someone know where you are going and when you plan to return
not trek alone
adapt your plans to reflect local conditions and advice
In remote areas, mobile phone coverage is extremely limited, and medical facilities are basic. Most Tajik mobile phones have difficulties connecting to satellite phones. The difficult terrain can make access impossible in some cases. 
There is a limited mountain rescue service staffed by volunteers and rescue equipment they have is limited. The Ministry of Internal Affairs has a Tourist Police Section and the  department can take calls 24/7 Tel (+99237) 231 80 36, Mobile phone (+992) 770 55 55 55.
Transport risks
Road travel
If you are planning to drive in Tajikistan, see information on driving abroad.
You’ll need to have both the 1968 version of the international driving permit (IDP) and your UK driving licence with you in the car. You cannot buy an IDP outside the UK, so get one before you travel.
Driving conditions
Vehicles in Tajikistan are often poorly maintained and driving standards are basic. Petrol stations are rare outside towns and there are no breakdown companies. Make sure you take all you need for your journey and allow for delays. Consider bringing a satellite phone for travel outside towns to use in an emergency. Neighbouring countries may close borders temporarily.
Roads outside the main towns are poorly maintained and often only accessible by 4-wheel-drive vehicles. Conditions are particularly dangerous in spring due to the risk of avalanches and landslides.
Many interior roads are only open in the summer months. It is possible to drive from Dushanbe to the north and Tajikistan’s second city, Khujand, using a tunnel. This road is particularly dangerous in winter due to icy conditions. Drivers can be trapped for a long time if caught in an avalanche due to the remote location.
Flooding in the spring and winter often damages and closes roads in areas of the Gorno-Badakhshan Autonomous Region and other parts of the country. Many roads, including the Pamir Highway, are open but not fully repaired.
Air travel
In May 2022, the UK sanctioned Aeroflot, Rossiya Airlines and Ural Airlines. It is now illegal under UK law for any British national or British company to do business with these airlines. This includes buying flight tickets.
Extreme weather and natural disasters
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards.
Earthquakes
Earthquakes are a risk in Tajikistan, particularly the east in the Gorno-Badakhshan Autonomous Region. Avalanches and landslides caused by earthquakes often block roads in the spring and early summer.
Learn earthquake safety procedures and follow the advice of the local authorities. The US Federal Emergency Management Agency website has advice about what to do before, during and after an earthquake.
Flooding
In late spring and summer, there can be seasonal flooding and mudslides caused by melting glaciers. Take care, follow local advice and be aware that conditions can change suddenly.
Snow
Heavy snowfall in winter can cause delays and cancellations at airports and disrupt travel, particularly in mountainous regions where there’s an increased risk of avalanches. Take local advice on road conditions during or following severe weather.
