Coronavirus guidance is being updated.
Read the Prime Minister’s statement for the latest information.

This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Tajikistan as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Tajikistan to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Tajikistan
You should monitor updates by the Tajikistan Government and should comply with any restrictions, health or screening measures introduced by the authorities.
Visas
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs reported that the validity of visas and the registration of foreign citizens temporarily in Tajikistan will be extended until the epidemiological situation stabilises.
Check the Tajik Ministry of Foreign Affairs’ website for more information.
Health
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Tajikistan.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Tajikistan, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, you should contact your local British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephones numbers are available 24/7.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
