All commercial passenger flights operating to and from Istanbul Ataturk Airport are due to be transferred to the new Istanbul Airport between 5 to 7 April 2019. During the transition period there will be a short period of time where no flights will operate from either airport, and thereafter restrictions of the frequency airlines can operate at, until the transfer is completed. Passengers travelling via Istanbul may be affected by delays and cancellations during the transition period and for a limited period after the transfer, and should contact their airline for further information. Once the transfer is completed, the IATA airport code IST will apply to Istanbul Airport and Istanbul Ataturk will acquire IATA airport code ISL
Terrorists are likely to try and carry out attacks in Tajikistan.
On 29 July 2018, 4 tourists were killed in a deliberate attack while cycling in the south of the country. You should exercise extreme caution and vigilance, particularly if hiking or cycling in the countryside. See Terrorism
There are regular clashes between the Taliban and Afghan government forces in north-east Afghanistan close to the border with Tajikistan. This border is also used by drug smugglers who often engage in armed clashes with Tajik security forces.
Check local advice before travelling to the Gorno-Badakhshan Autonomous Oblast (GBAO) in the East, as the area may be closed to visitors at short notice. Tensions in the regional capital, Khorog, have risen since September 2018. See Gorno Badakhshan Autonomous Oblast (GBAO)
Several areas of the GBAO and other parts of the country are damaged by flooding in the spring and winter seasons and roads are often closed. Most of the infrastructure has been repaired, but many roads, including the Pamir Highway, are currently open but not fully repaired.
The government of Tajikistan sometimes suspends issuing permits for travel to the GBAO by foreign nationals who enter Tajikistan on a tourist visa. This can happen at short notice, depending on the security situation in the area. If you’re considering travel to the GBAO you should contact the Embassy of Tajikistan for up to date information on whether permits are being issued.
There are occasional skirmishes along the disputed Tajik/Kyrgyz border. There were clashes between Tajik and Kyrgyz border guards and civilians in June 2018. Previous incidents have involved firearms. There’s a risk of further localised violence and border closures at any time.
Tajikistan’s borders with neighbouring countries are subject to closure without notice. Check in advance which border posts are currently open. You may also wish to check with the British Embassy in Dushanbe for up to date information on border restrictions.
The crossing points on the Tajik/Kyrgyz border at Guliston (Isfara region), Avchikalacha (Sughd region) and Kizil Art (Gorno-Badakhshan region) are open to British nationals. The border at Karamik (Jirgatol region) is currently only open to Tajik and Kyrgyz nationals, although this may change in the future following talks between the two countries.
The crossing points on the Tajik/Uzbek border at Bratstvo (Tursunzade region), and at Fotehobod and Patar/Rabot (Sughd region) and the Panjakent-Samarkand border are open to British nationals holding visas.
Tourism, health and transport infrastructure is poor and travel requires careful planning. Avoid off-road areas immediately adjoining the Afghan, Uzbek and Kyrgyz borders, which may be mined. See Local travel
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.
Take out comprehensive travel and medical insurance including evacuation by air ambulance before you travel. See Health
