Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Bulgaria on the TravelHealthPro website.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International Travel
Direct and indirect commercial flights between the UK and Bulgaria continue to operate.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Bulgaria.
Returning to the UK
Travelling from and returning to the UK
Check what you must do to travel abroad and return to England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
If you plan to pass through another country to return to the UK, check the travel advice for the country you’re transiting.
The Bulgarian authorities have issued a list of COVID-19 test centres in locations across Bulgaria (only available in Bulgarian).
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Public spaces and services
COVID-19 related restrictions remain under review and can vary by city/region within Bulgaria. You should follow any local rules.
The police are strictly enforcing measures and failure to comply could result in a fine.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you will be required to self-isolate for 10 days. Additionally, there is a mandatory 7-day self-isolation requirement (starting from the date of last contact with the infected person) for anyone who has been in close contact with someone who has tested positive for COVID-19, regardless of vaccination status. During self-isolation you are not permitted to leave Bulgaria.
The 7-day mandatory self-isolation period for close contacts may be revoked for close contacts who are vaccinated with a booster dose and who present a negative PCR test taken 72 hours after the mandatory self-isolation period commenced. The mandatory self-isolation requirement is revoked from the day after the registration of the negative result. Results will automatically be registered by the test centre when they produce the result certificate.
In Sofia, from 4 August to 19 August, it is mandatory to wear a face mask in all indoor public spaces, including in medical establishments and shops and on public transport.
There are exceptions for children up to 6 years old, restaurants and bars, indoor exercise and participants in conferences during speeches. Visits to hospitals and hospices are limited. You should keep a social distance of at least 1.5 metres in crowded open public spaces.
It is no longer necessary to present a COVID vaccination certificate to visit indoor venues.
Travel in Bulgaria
Travel to/from airport or other port of arrival
There are no restrictions on travel between cities.
Road
Restrictions apply at many European land borders, including with Bulgaria, which affect road and rail travel. You should check the travel advice for any countries through which you are considering travel before you depart.
Healthcare in Bulgaria
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Bulgaria
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Bulgaria
Wherever possible British nationals should aim to be vaccinated in the country where they live. We will update this page when the Government of Bulgaria announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Bulgarian national vaccination programme started in January 2021 and is using the AstraZeneca, Moderna, Pfizer-BioNTech and Janssen (Johnson and Johnson) vaccines. British nationals resident in Bulgaria are eligible for vaccination. There are two parts to the Bulgarian rollout programme:
the National Vaccination Plan, which is proceeding to vaccinate the population according to priority groups; and
the Mass Vaccination Scheme “green corridor”, which operates intermittently, as supplies allow.
UK nationals resident in Bulgaria will be offered a vaccination against COVID-19 at the same time as Bulgarian citizens under the provisions of the National Vaccination Plan. They can also put themselves forward as part of the “green corridor” scheme that allows hospitals and clinics to vaccinate all those who wish to come forward, regardless of age or priority grouping. Mobile vaccination buses are also being deployed in a number of areas around the country for ease of access under the ‘green corridor’ scheme.
The Bulgarian Ministry of Health has recommended the administration of a booster dose to the following risk groups of the population:
immunocompromised persons:
persons in care homes
medical staff with a high risk of infection
persons over 65 years of age
persons who have not developed sufficient immunity one month after the completion of the vaccination.
Booster jabs are available through the Bulgarian public health system and can be administered to all citizens at their discretion, not only the above-mentioned risk groups, at least 3 months after the completion of the vaccination, and for persons who have not developed sufficient immunity – one month after the completion of the vaccination.
Details of these and official information on the Bulgarian vaccination programme is available on Bulgaria’s coronavirus website (in Bulgarian).
Bulgarian health authorities have announced that the AstraZeneca vaccine will not be administered to women under the age of 60 who are at risk of thrombosis, at the discretion of their GPs. Those who have received a first dose of the AstraZeneca vaccine will be able to either receive a second dose of the same vaccine or receive a second dose of the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine, but not earlier than 84 days after the first shot. Those who have received a first dose, but in the meantime became infected with the coronavirus, can receive the second dose no earlier than 6 months after the laboratory confirmation the diagnosis. Those who have recovered from coronavirus, can be vaccinated no earlier than 3 months after the laboratory confirmation of the diagnosis.
Bulgaria’s Health Ministry set out the following procedure to fix any inaccuracies in COVID-19 vaccination certificates. Citizens and residents who find discrepancies in their issued certificates (wrong name, date of vaccination, identification number, address, etc.) must send a formal request to the vaccination centre where they received the jab or to the relevant Regional Health Inspectorate, for the region where the vaccination centre is located. The request should contain the vaccine recipient’s full name, contact details, information about the vaccines administered, as well as a detailed description of the error. If necessary, copies of relevant documentation can be attached. See here for a full list of the Regional Health Inspectorates and their contact details. In cases where the names in the vaccination certificate are misspelled, the errors can also be reported directly to the Ministry of Health by sending an email to mhcallcenter@mh.government.bg with an attached copy of the vaccination certificate and the correct spelling of the names.
Bulgaria has approved the use of Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine for anyone 12 years and above, which are available through the ‘green corridor’ scheme. Bulgaria has approved a reduced dose version of Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna for 5 -11 year olds. Not all vaccination centres in Bulgaria are able to vaccinate 5 -11 year olds, a list of centres where this is possible is available online. If you are considering a vaccination for somebody in this age group, you should seek medical advice from their local healthcare provider.
Bulgaria’s Health Ministry has approved the EU Digital COVID certificate. All citizens and residents who have already received their certificate will be able to download the document in the new European format on the National Health Information System website without the need to present an electronic signature. In order to obtain the certificate, citizens and residents need to enter their personal identification number, ID card number and the reference number of one of the two vaccines they received. The vaccine reference numbers can be found in the lower left corner on the existing certificates. Foreign citizens will have to fill in their personal number and the number of their permanent residence document, respectively.
Citizens and residents who haven’t received their certificate yet, can obtain it either through the National Health Information System with an electronic signature, at the vaccination centre where they received their jabs, or through their GP. The document can also be saved as a PDF file, which allows it to be printed later or stored on a mobile device.
The process for correcting any errors on the EU compliant versions is still though the Regional Health Inspectorates as detailed above. There is an agreed six week grace period where older versions can be used within the EU, but it is advised that travellers check the current travel advice for their chosen destination before arriving.
Residence can be demonstrated by using either your Bulgarian residence permit or passport along with another form of documentation showing that you are legally resident in Bulgaria, such as a tenancy agreement, S1 social security document or similar.
National Vaccination Plan
To participate in the national vaccination plan, you should make sure that you are registered with a GP/family doctor and ensure that they are aware that you wish to be vaccinated. The family doctor can let you know when the vaccine will be provided under the relevant phase.
Mass Vaccination Scheme (‘green corridor’)
The ‘green corridor’ scheme is designed to facilitate mass vaccination when vaccine supply permits. To participate, check the list of all participating medical establishments.
If you would like to participate in the scheme, visit Bulgaria’s coronavirus website to register. Currently, the platform is available only in Bulgarian. The registration process requires users enter their personal identification data, to select their preferred vaccine, vaccination centre and time slot. Permanent and long-term residents in Bulgaria can use their ‘personal number of a foreign national’ (ЛНЧ – личен номер на чужденец) in order to register.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad. If you’re a British national living in Bulgaria, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
The Bulgarian Ministry of Health has published information (in Bulgarian) and has set up a hotline +359 2 807 87 57.
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
