This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Bulgaria set and enforce entry rules. For further information contact their embassy, high commission or consulate. You may also check with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and travel documents meet their requirements.
If you are travelling to Bulgaria for work, read the guidance on visas and permits as the rules have changed since 1 January 2021.
Entry rules in response to coronavirus (COVID-19)
Entry to Bulgaria
Bulgaria has a system for classifying travellers arriving in the country based on travel from green, orange, red and dark red zones. The UK has been categorised as a ‘red zone’ country.
From 1 February the COVID rules for entering Bulgaria will change, please see the new rules below.
Entry requirements until 31 January
Unitl 31 January, UK nationals (and their family members) travelling directly from the UK, a European Union member state, a European Economic Area country or Switzerland (even if that country is also in the red zone) are eligible to enter Bulgaria, but you must provide the following pieces of COVID-19 documentation in order to be allowed entry:
a vaccination certificate (Bulgaria will accept either certificate of completion of a two dose vaccine course (Pfizer-BioNTech, AstraZeneca, Novavax, Moderna, Covishield, Sinopharm, Sinovac, Sputnik) or a certificate of receipt of a one dose vaccine (Janssen, Johnson & Johnson). In both cases immunization must have been completed 14 days prior to arrival; or
evidence of past COVID-19 infection (a test result certificate, in English, showing a positive test result from either a PCR or rapid antigen test dated at least 11 days, but no more than 180 days, before arrival in Bulgaria).
You must also provide:
a negative PCR test taken within 72 hours before entry - this should include name, date of birth, details of the medical institution and date and time of the sample, and should be in English.
Children under 12 are exempt from quarantine and the requirement to present COVID-19 documents upon their arrival in Bulgaria, regardless of what colour zone they have travelled from.
Until 31 January, children aged 12 to 18 must either:
Present a negative PCR test taken up to 72 hours before entering Bulgaria. This is regardless of nationality and/or residence or colour zone of the country they are travelling from.
Or, if they do not have a negative PCR test, they must self-isolate upon arrival for 10 days. This 10-day self-isolation period can be shortened if they take a PCR test no earlier than 72 hours after their arrival in Bulgaria and the result is negative. The self-isolation requirement will be lifted the day following the registration of the negative result. The self-isolation requirement will be lifted the day following the registration of the negative result.
Until 31 January, Bulgarian nationals and permanent and long-term residents, as well as their family members who present only one of the above listed documents – a certificate of vaccination or recovery or a negative PCR test, are allowed to travel but, must self-isolate for 10 days upon arrival. This 10-day quarantine period can be shortened if they perform a PCR test no earlier than 72 hours after their arrival in Bulgaria. If the result is negative, quarantine will be lifted from the day following the registration of the result.
Until 31 January, Bulgarian nationals and permanent and long-term residents, as well as their family members who do not present any of the above listed documents – a certificate of vaccination or recovery or a negative PCR test, will be allowed to enter Bulgaria. However, they will be required to complete a mandatory 10-day quarantine which cannot be ended early through testing.
Only Bulgarian nationals and permanent and long-term residents, as well as their family members, will be allowed to enter from the following countries: South Africa, Mozambique, Botswana, Lesotho, Namibia, Eswatini and Zimbabwe. They will be subject to a mandatory 10-day self-isolation and a mandatory antigen testing upon entry.
Further details regarding the definition of family members for these purposes are provided below.
Entry requirements from 1 February:
From 1 February, anyone, including children aged 12-18, travelling from ‘red zone’ countries, such as the UK, are allowed to enter Bulgaria if they present one of the following documents:
a COVID vaccination certificate; OR
evidence of prior COVID infection; OR
a negative COVID test. Either a PCR test taken no more than 72 hours or Rapid Antigen Test taken no more than 48 hours before entering Bulgaria.
Further details of the document requirements are below.
Children under 12 are exempt from quarantine and the requirement to present Covid-19 documents upon their arrival in Bulgaria, regardless of what colour zone they have travelled from.
From 1 February, Bulgarian nationals and permanent and long-term residents, as well as their family members can travel without any of the above listed documents, but they must self-isolate for 10 days. This 10-day quarantine period can be shortened if they perform a PCR test no earlier than 72 hours after their arrival in Bulgaria. If the result is negative, the quarantine will be revoked from the day following the registration of the result.
Only Bulgarian nationals and permanent and long-term residents, as well as their family members, will be allowed to enter from the following countries: South Africa, Mozambique, Botswana, Lesotho, Namibia, Eswatini and Zimbabwe. They will be subject to a mandatory 10-day quarantine and a mandatory antigen testing upon entry.
Further details regarding the definition of family members for these purposes are provided below.
Document Requirements from 1 February:
From 1 February 2022, in order to prove your COVID vaccination status you will need to present your UK NHS app or letter, or an EU vaccination certificate showing you have had two doses of the vaccine. You will need to show you have had your second dose no earlier than 270 days, and no later than 15 days prior to arrival.
If you do not have access to the NHS app or the EU Vaccination certificate you can present a document containing the name of the person in English, date of birth, date of the last administered dose, serial number of the dose, and the total number of doses administered, trade name of vaccine, batch number of dose(s), manufacturer name, name of country and organisation who has issued the certificate and for the EU certificate, its unique identifier.
If you have received you second of vaccines more than 270 days before your arrival, you will need to show evidence that you have had an additional (booster) dose of vaccine against COVID-19. This can show via the UK NHS app or letter, or EU vaccination certificate.
If you do have access to the NHS app or the EU Vaccination certificate you may present a document containing the names of the person written in English according to the identity document he / she is traveling with, date of birth, date of booster dose of COVID-19 vaccine, serial number of the dose, and total number of vaccine doses, the trade name of the vaccine against COVID-19, the name of the manufacturer / holder of the marketing authorisation, the country in which it was issued and the name of the issuing competent authority and, for the EU certificate, its unique identifier.
From 1 February 2022, ‘evidence of prior COVID infection’ for can be proven by showing a positive result from a PCR or rapid antigen test (RAT) which must be dated at least 11, but no more than 180 days before arrival. The document must contain the name of the person in English, date of birth, date of the first positive result of the PCR or RAT, details of the medical institution that performed the test (name, address or other contact details), the authority that issued the document, the country in which the test has been performed, and ‘Positive’ written in English and for the EU certificate, its unique identifier.
From 1 February 2022, a ‘COVID test’ includes a PCR test taken no more than 72 hours or rapid antigen test (RAT) taken no more than 48 hours before entering Bulgaria. The test must contain the name of the person in English, date of birth, type of test and ‘Negative’ written in English, details of the medical institution that performed the test (name, address or other contact details), date and time of the test sample, the country in which the test has been performed and the authority that issued the document and for the EU certificate, its unique identifier.
The EU has adopted the UK’s NHS COVID documentation (both the letter and App versions) as equivalent to the EU Digital COVID Certificate. The decision ensures it will be automatically accepted across Europe. Bulgarian Ministry of Health has also confirmed that UK’s NHS Certificate meet the necessary requirements and will be recognised both for entry into the country and for domestic measures on the territory of Bulgaria.
Definition of Family Members
Family members are defined by Bulgaria’s immigration rules, depending on whether the UK nationals are beneficiaries of the Withdrawal Agreement or not.
Family members of a UK national, legally resident in Bulgaria before 31 December 2020, are considered to be:
Husband, Wife or common law partner
Children under 18. This includes stepchildren of either parent and those adopted. Can also include older children up to 21 years old who are in full time education
There are also provisions under the rules for other family members who are normally part of the household who are reliant on the resident or Bulgarian national for care and/or accommodation
Family members of a UK national, legally resident in Bulgaria after 31 December 2020 and therefore not a beneficiary of the Withdrawal Agreement, are considered to be:
Husband / Wife
Children of either parent under 18, who are not married, including adopted children
It is advisable to bring documentation to demonstrate the family relationship. Family members travelling separately may be turned away without documentary proof.
The measures are in force at all air, road, rail and sea border crossings into Bulgaria.
Exemptions, regardless of nationality, to the entry restrictions in Bulgaria for travellers from UK (and other red list countries) include medical workers, state officials and diplomats, persons traveling for humanitarian reasons, seasonal and tourist workers etc. Other categories of people who can enter Bulgaria without the need to submit documents for COVID-19 include: bus and lorry drivers, crews of vessels and aircraft, border workers, those transiting through the country, students who live in Greece, Turkey, Serbia, Romania or The Republic of North Macedonia and travel daily or at least once a week to Bulgaria for training purposes, travellers between Bulgaria and Romania and between Bulgaria and Czech Republic.
Further information on the full range of exemptions, and the list of countries falling into the green, orange and red zones, is available on the following Bulgarian Government web site (in Bulgarian). If you fall into one of the exempted categories, you should contact your travel operator in advance of travel for further information on how to demonstrate your exemption from the travel ban.
Many land borders crossings in the region are restricted or closed for passenger traffic. Furthermore, neighbouring countries are implementing additional health requirements for entry to or departure from Bulgaria including declarations and COVID-19 tests. You should check the relevant FCDO Travel Advice.
If you need to travel, plan ahead and before you travel check border information published by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs before you travel.
Demonstrating your COVID-19 status
Bulgaria will accept the UK’s NHS vaccination record and proof of COVID-19 recovery issued in the Crown Dependencies. Your final vaccine dose must have been administered at least 14 days prior to travel. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
Quarantine requirements
If you need to self-isolate on arrival to Bulgaria and are eligible to shorten this, please check the list of places offering PCR testing in Bulgaria. It is available here in Bulgarian.
You should submit the document showing a negative result of the PCR test to the respective Regional Health Inspectorate.
Regular entry requirements
Visas
From 1 January 2021, the rules for travelling or working in European countries changed:
you can travel to Bulgaria for up to 90 days in any 180-day period without a visa. This applies if you travel as a tourist, to visit for family or friends, to attend business meetings, cultural or sports events, or for short-term studies or training
visits to other EU or Schengen countries do not count towards your 90-day limit in Bulgaria as it is not in the Schengen area. Visits to Bulgaria do not count towards your 90-day visa-free limit in the Schengen area
to stay longer, to work or study, for business travel or for other reasons, you will need to meet the Bulgarian government’s entry requirements. Check with the Bulgarian Embassy what type of visa and/or work permit you may need
if you stay in Bulgaria with a residence permit or long-stay visa, this does not count towards your 90-day visa-free limit
*any time you spent in Bulgaria before 1 January 2021 does not count towards the 90-day visa-free limit.
At Bulgarian border control, you may need to use separate lanes from EU, EEA and Swiss citizens when queueing. Your passport may be stamped on entry and exit. You may also need to:
show a return or onward ticket
show you have enough money for your stay
Passport validity
If you are planning to travel to an EU country (except Ireland), or Switzerland, Norway, Iceland, Liechtenstein, Andorra, Monaco, San Marino or Vatican City, you must meet the Schengen area rules.
Your passport must meet 2 requirements. It must be:
less than 10 years old on the day you enter (check the ‘date of issue’)
valid for at least 3 months after the day you plan to leave (check the ‘expiry date’)
We are asking the European Commission to clarify the 10-year rule. Their guidance for Schengen border guards may not be updated until the spring of 2022. Until then, for some Schengen countries your passport may need to be less than 10 years old during your whole visit, and the 3 months at the end of your visit may need to be within 10 years of your passport’s issue date.
Check both the issue date and the expiry date in your passport. If you renewed your passport early, extra months may have been added to its expiry date. This could affect the requirement for your passport to be less than 10 years old.
Contact your travel provider or embassy of the country you are visiting if you think that your passport does not meet both these requirements. Renew your passport if you need to.
There are separate requirements for those who are resident in Bulgaria. If you are resident in Bulgaria, you should carry proof of residence as well as your valid passport when you travel. For further information on these requirements, see our Living in Bulgaria guide.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are accepted for entry, airside transit and exit from Bulgaria.
