

Before you travel check that:
your destination can provide the healthcare you may need
you have appropriate travel insurance for local treatment or unexpected medical evacuation
This is particularly important if you have a health condition or are pregnant.
Emergency medical number
Dial 112 and ask for an ambulance.
Contact your insurance or medical assistance company quickly if you’re referred to a medical facility for treatment.
Vaccine recommendations and health risks
At least 8 weeks before your trip:
check the latest vaccine recommendations for Bulgaria
see where to get vaccines and whether you have to pay on the NHS travel vaccinations page
 See what health risks you’ll face in Bulgaria, including biting insects and ticks.
Altitude sickness is a risk in parts of Bulgaria. Read more about altitude sickness on TravelHealthPro. 
Stray dogs
Stray dogs are common and can be dangerous. Avoid getting too close to dogs, especially if they are in a pack. Take any animal bites seriously and seek immediate medical advice as rabies and other animal-borne diseases are present in Bulgaria. 
Medication
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or bought in the UK can be different in other countries.
Read best practice when travelling with medicines on TravelHealthPro.
Healthcare in Bulgaria
FCDO has a list of medical providers in Bulgaria where some staff will speak English.
Most Bulgarian hospitals are basic and old-fashioned compared to those in the UK. Standards of medical care are generally good, but specialised equipment and treatment may not be available. Hospital staff rarely speak English.
Private clinics and hospitals are generally well-equipped and not expensive in comparison with the UK.
Foreign tourists have sometimes been overcharged in private clinics in tourist resorts. Hotels or resorts my call private ambulances. If you use private medical services, agree a price in advance. Ask whether there is a suitable public health facility nearby if you want to use a health insurance card, as these are not accepted by many private hospitals.
Health insurance cards
To get medically necessary state healthcare in Bulgaria, you need a Global Health Insurance Card (GHIC) or a European Health Insurance Card (EHIC). 
The NHS’s getting healthcare abroad webpage has details about:
how to apply for a GHIC
how to get temporary cover if you lose your card or it does not arrive in time
who qualifies for a new EHIC instead of a GHIC
what treatment counts as medically necessary
A GHIC or EHIC is not an alternative to travel insurance. You may have costs your GHIC or EHIC does not cover, including:
changes to travel and accommodation bookings
additional standard costs for treatment
medical repatriation to the UK
treatment that is ruled non-urgent
private healthcare
private clinics
Read about healthcare if you live in Bulgaria.
Travel and mental health
Read FCDO guidance on travel and mental health. There is also mental health guidance on TravelHealthPro.
