Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

There are currently limited indirect commercial options to fly to the UK from Bulgaria. Almost all direct flights between UK and Bulgaria were suspended indefinitely from 16th April 2020. Details of the limited direct flights between UK and Bulgaria will be updated on our Facebook page once operations have been confirmed.
We know this is concerning for British nationals who may be trying to leave Bulgaria. The UK government is working closely with the Bulgarian authorities to make sure further options are made available for you to return to the UK. If you live in the UK and are currently visiting Bulgaria, you are strongly advised to return now by the limited commercial options available. Do not run the risk of getting stranded.
UK special charter flights will only operate for priority countries where commercial flights are not possible. You should not assume that these flights will become available in countries where commercial routes are operating. Please do not contact the contracted travel management company if no flight is advertised here.
What to do
If you cannot leave Bulgaria at this time, you should:
Follow the advice of local authorities, including local measures to help minimise your risk of exposure to coronavirus
Find accommodation that is suitable for your needs.
Keep in regular contact with family and friends at home, so they know you are safe and well
Future travel options
The UK government is working closely with airlines, the Bulgarian authorities and other governments to make sure options are available for you to return to the UK as soon as possible.
This travel advice will be updated when departure options become available. Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British Embassy on Facebook
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British Embassy on +359 (0)2 933 9222.
The Embassy cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone. This page will be updated when departure options become available. To get the latest information, sign up for travel advice email alerts.
Flights
There are currently limited indirect commercial options to fly to the UK from Bulgaria. Almost all direct flights between UK and Bulgaria were suspended indefinitely from 16th April 2020. Details of the limited direct flights between UK and Bulgaria are updated on our Facebook page once operations have been confirmed.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Follow British Embassy Sofia on Facebook for daily updates on upcoming flights.
Travelling to the airport
Bulgarian authorities have established checkpoints at the entrances to and exits from regional cities for the purposes of conducting checks concerning citizens’ reasons for travelling.
Persons are allowed through the checkpoints only where travel cannot be postponed due to a person’s professional obligations, health considerations, or to return to one’s current or permanent address (including onward travel to the UK).
To pass through checkpoints, you need to present a declaration in Bulgarian stating the reason for your travel, along with any accompanying documents (such an onward travel ticket).You can find the declaration that needs to be filled out for travel between cities, including if you are travelling to Sofia to catch a flight, here.
Road
Restrictions apply at many European land borders, including with Bulgaria, which affect road and rail travel. You should check the travel advice for any countries through which you are considering travel before you depart.
Arrival in the UK
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Further information
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
