

Terrorism 
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.     
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Bulgaria
Terrorist attacks in Bulgaria cannot be ruled out.  
Attacks could be indiscriminate, including in places visited by foreign nationals. Stay aware of your surroundings, keep up to date with local media reports and follow the advice of local authorities.
Protests and demonstrations
There are occasional political protests in towns and cities across Bulgaria. They can cause disruption to transport as protestors or police may set up roadblocks. Most protests are peaceful but there have been occasional incidents of violence, including by the police. Avoid all protests and follow the advice of local authorities. 
Crime
Protecting yourself and your belongings
Take sensible precautions to protect yourself from street crime, particularly in larger cities and late at night. Beware of any attempts to distract you. Watch out for pickpockets and bag thefts in tourist areas, on buses and trains and major public transport hubs, including airports.
Thefts from unattended cars at petrol stations have increased. Lock your car when going inside the petrol station to pay for your fuel.
Tourists are targeted by thieves and pickpockets in Sunny Beach and other larger cities and resorts. Thefts on the bus from Nessebar to Sunny Beach have also increased. Do not take valuables to the beach and be wary of poorly lit roads around the resort at night.
Scams
Some tourists have been the victims of overcharging in so-called ‘gentlemen’s clubs’ in Sofia and in some resorts including Bansko, Borovets and Sunny Beach. Overcharging can amount to hundreds of pounds. Victims can be threatened with violence if they refuse to pay.
Get recommendations for bars and clubs from your hotel or other holidaymakers. When paying by card make sure the transaction is completed in your presence and be wary if asked to re-enter your PIN.   
Thefts from accommodation
There have been burglaries from hotel rooms in Sunny Beach. Make sure you lock your room (including windows and balcony doors) and keep valuables locked in a safe.
There have been break-ins at properties in the residential areas of cities, and rural areas.
Thefts from cars
Criminals may puncture your tyres or flag down your car. When you get out, the thieves can distract you and steal from your vehicle. Make sure the boot is locked and your luggage is secure.
Property fraud
Buyers have been defrauded while buying property. Be cautious and get legal advice before you buy. Only deal with established and reputable real estate agents or with other contacts who you know to be reliable and genuine.
See more details about buying property.
Laws and cultural differences
Personal ID
Always carry ID. A printed copy of the photo page of your passport is acceptable.
Illegal drugs and sex offences
The Bulgarian authorities treat all drug-related and sex offences very seriously. Any foreign nationals convicted of such offences can expect a prison sentence.
Drunken and disorderly behaviour
Offences relating to drunken, disorderly behaviour and hooliganism may be treated more seriously than in the UK. Police can arrest or fine anyone for loud and boisterous behaviour or urination in public places.       
Football matches
Crowd control measures and stewarding can be different from the UK and there have been a small number of incidents where ‘throwdown fireworks’ such as firecrackers or bangers have been set off in stadiums, risking injuries. Stay aware of your surroundings and be alert in crowded venues. 
Using cameras and binoculars in secure areas
Avoid taking photographs near potentially sensitive areas like military establishments. If in doubt, ask permission.
Race-related incidents
The majority of visitors experience no difficulties related to their race, ethnicity or religious beliefs. However there have been a small number of verbal and physical attacks against ethnic minority UK nationals, including residents, in Bulgaria, and others have experienced unwanted attention or harassment in public places.
Instances have increased at times of demonstrations organised by groups connected to populist or right-wing movements. Avoid all protests and stay aware of your surroundings, particularly when travelling alone or at night.
LGBT+ travellers
Same-sex sexual activity is not illegal, but public attitudes are less tolerant than in the UK and the LGBT+ community generally keeps a low profile.
There are a few gay bars and clubs in Sofia. The city also holds the annual Sofia Pride. Sofia Pride is growing in popularity and was attended in recent years by over 10,000 people. However, it attracts some negative attention locally and is held with a heightened police presence and security measures. If you want to join the parade, read the organisers’ Sofia Pride safety rules.
In 2023, some verbal abuse and threatening behaviour was directed at people attending events related to Sofia Pride, including foreign visitors. You can report any hate crime to the organisers and the local police.
Attitudes outside Sofia tend to be more conservative. There have been isolated cases of hostility towards people perceived to be from LGBT+ communities reported in Burgas and Plovdiv. You can find local information on LGBT+ issues in Bulgaria on the website of the Bulgarian Helsinki Committee.
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Face-covering ban
Covering your face with a niqab, burka or similar head covering in public places is illegal in Bulgaria and police could give you a fine. This applies in public buildings, streets, parks, restaurants, shops and on public transport.      
Outdoor activities and adventure tourism
Sports activities like skiing, potholing and mountaineering, and sports classed as particularly dangerous – mountain biking, climbing, paragliding or BASE jumping – all carry risks. Your insurance should include:
mountain rescue services
helicopter costs
repatriation to your home country or possible transfer to neighbouring countries for treatment
There’s more information about mountain insurance on the Bulgarian Red Cross website.
Quad biking and motorbikes
Quad biking is an extreme sport and carries the risk of serious injury or death. You need specific travel insurance to cover quad biking. Always read the details of your insurance cover, especially the small print and exclusions on your policy.
Make sure you are given full instructions and training before your activity.
Insurance sold by the hire company usually only provides third-party insurance. It’s likely you will be charged for any damage to the rental vehicle and you may face arrest if you do not pay.
If you hire a motorbike, you need a full motorbike licence. Make sure the vehicle is in good condition. Drivers and passengers must wear helmets. Failure to do so may invalidate your insurance.
Swimming and water sports
Obey any warning signs at coastal areas and beaches. Follow instructions from lifeguards and observe the flag indicators if they are present. Follow local advice if jellyfish or sea urchins are present.
For more advice, see Water safety on holiday from the Royal Life Saving Society.
Book activities at a licensed water sports centre and before you start:
make sure the paperwork is completed
ask for a safety demonstration
make sure you know how to call for help
See ⁠watersports safety advice from the Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents (ROSPA).
Winter sports
Read advice about preparing for winter sports abroad. The Bulgarian Mountain Rescue service publishes safety rules on the ski slopes (in Bulgarian).
Avalanches are a risk in some areas. Always check the local snow and weather conditions if you plan to ski off-piste, and ski with a guide. There’s more information about avalanche risk from the Bulgarian Mountain Rescue Service (in Bulgarian).
Transport risks
Road travel
If you plan to drive in Bulgaria, see information on driving abroad and check the rules of the road in the RAC’s Bulgaria guide. The guide lists driving regulations and other legal requirements you need to be aware of.
If you bring your own car to Bulgaria, you must have:
your driving licence
all original registration and ownership documents
proof of insurance that is valid in Bulgaria – although you are not required to have a green card to drive in Bulgaria, you may need it in some neighbouring countries
Check if you need a UK sticker to drive your car outside the UK.
If it’s a hired car, you must keep the contract document. Border officials will impound your vehicle if they are not satisfied that you own it or have permission to use it in Bulgaria.
Vehicles that are registered outside the EU are considered to be ‘temporarily imported’ when driven inside Bulgaria. If your car is stolen in Bulgaria, you will be liable for import duty and related taxes.
See driving requirements if you live in Bulgaria.
Driving conditions
Road conditions can be dangerous. Take care when driving, particularly at night and outside major cities. Many roads (and pavements) are in poor repair and roadworks are often unmarked and unlit at night. Driving standards are generally poor, and drivers can be aggressive, particularly on motorways. Avoid confrontations.
There may be slow-moving cars and animal-drawn vehicles on the roads, particularly in rural areas.
You must drive with side lights or dipped headlights, even during the daytime. Keep to the speed limit and make sure your vehicle is roadworthy. Traffic police issue on-the-spot fines for minor violations.
Bulgaria has strict penalties for driving under the influence of alcohol and drugs, and doing so could lead to vehicle confiscation, a prison sentence and fines. If you receive a penalty and do not own the vehicle, you could be required to pay a fine equivalent to the vehicle’s value. 
Tolls
If you want to use motorways and main roads outside towns, you’ll need to buy a digital vignette in advance of your journey. The vignette is a form of toll. If you use the roads without a vignette, traffic police will issue a fine. You can buy a vignette online.  
Taxis
Taxis may not be in very good condition. Avoid taxis parked outside hotels or in tourist areas. Ask your hotel to call a taxi or flag down a passing taxi with a green ‘available’ light in the window. Check the licence sticker and the tariffs on the window before getting in as costs can vary considerably. Licensed taxis run by ‘Yellow’ operators are the most reliable.
There are regular reports of robberies and threatening behaviour by taxi drivers in Sunny Beach. Use a taxi recommended by your tour operator or accommodation provider.
There has been an increase in unlicensed taxis from Sofia airport overcharging passengers. If you’re travelling from the airport, make sure you take an official, licensed taxi. There is an official taxi booking office in the arrivals hall. Check that the taxi meter is working before starting your journey.
Rail and bus travel
Thieves operate on trains. Make sure that documents and valuables are safe. The train system is very poor by European standards. There have been several fires on Bulgarian trains. Bulgaria has a comprehensive rail network, but trains can be cancelled at short notice. For travel updates see the Bulgaria Railways website.
 The roadworthiness of vehicles and driving standards are not always good, and there have been a number of serious accidents in recent years.
Extreme weather and natural disasters
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards. 
Wildfires
In summer and early autumn, Bulgaria is on a regular alert for wildfires. There is danger of large-scale and quick-spreading fires in forests and fields. Follow media reports and the advice of local authorities if wildfires occur in your area.
Flooding
Many parts of Bulgaria flood following heavy rains. Flooding is usually localised but can occasionally be widespread and has caused deaths. Watch for weather warnings on the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology website.
Earthquakes
There are earthquakes and small tremors throughout the year, usually without serious consequences. The last significant earthquakes were in 1928.
The US Federal Emergency Management Agency website has advice about what to do before, during and after an earthquake. 
