This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Bulgaria as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Bulgaria to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Bulgaria
For information on entering Bulgaria, see Entry Requirements
The State of Emergency in Bulgaria ended on 13 May 2020, but an Emergency Epidemic situation has been declared until 15 July 2020. Therefore coronavirus measures and restrictions remain in force.
Full information and details of the restrictions currently in place in Bulgaria is regularly reviewed and updated via the Embassy Facebook page. The police are strictly enforcing measures and failure to comply could result in a 300 to 1,000 lev (£135-£450) fine.
Health
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Bulgaria
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Bulgaria, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
The Bulgarian Ministry of Health has published information (in Bulgarian) and has set up a hotline +359 2 807 87 57.
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
