The FCDO advises against all but essential travel to:
the whole of Bulgaria based on the current assessment of COVID-19 risks.
On 23 December the Bulgarian Government announced that it would lift its ban on air travel between Bulgaria and the UK with immediate effect, but with a new Covid-19 testing requirement in place for all travellers to Bulgaria. Given the flight ban previously in place, many airlines have cancelled direct flights due to operate in the next few days, but some indirect flights continue to operate as per their original schedule. If you were due to travel to/from Bulgaria and your flight had been cancelled, please contact your travel operator to see if it has been reinstated. Given the large number of cancelled flights it may be difficult for airlines to offer seats to all those who had hoped to travel over the festive period. Check our advice on things to consider, and be prepared to stay overseas longer than planned.
Travel to Bulgaria is subject to entry restrictions
A temporary ban remains in place at all air, road, rail and sea border crossings into Bulgaria) on travellers arriving from the UK. Bulgarian citizens and British nationals who are able to demonstrate that they have valid residence status in Bulgaria, as well as members of their families, and a small number of other categories of traveller are exempted from this ban. This temporary ban on entry will continue to be in force even now that the Bulgarian Government has confirmed that flights may resume.
Arrivals to Bulgaria from the UK, with a small number of exemptions, are required to self-isolate on arrival for a period of ten or fourteen days. You may be subject to quarantine measures if arriving from or via another country.
From 00:01 on 24 December, rapid antigen tests will be performed on all travellers arriving by air from the UK. If the result is negative, you will be subject to a ten-day self-isolation period; if the result is positive you will be required to self-isolate for fourteen-days. If you arrive by road, rail or sea –and are not required to undergo a rapid antigen test upon arrival- you will be required to self-isolate for ten days.
From 00:01 on 01 January 2021, all arrivals to Bulgaria from the UK will be required to provide evidence of a PCR test with a negative result undertaken up-to 72 hours before arrival. You should carry a hard-copy certificate showing your negative PCR test result when you travel. Check the list of UK private providers of Coronavirus testing and make arrangements for your test in good time. It may not be possible to secure a test at short notice. Bulgarian citizens and residents who do not provide evidence of a negative PCR-test will be required to self-isolate for a ten-day period.
The quarantine and requirement to undertake a rapid test upon arrival or to provide evidence of a negative PCR test do not apply to hauliers and others in transit by road through Bulgaria, and crewmembers of vessels and aircraft.
You may also be subject to quarantine measures if arriving from or via another country.
Many land border crossings in the region are also restricted or closed for passenger traffic.
See Entry requirements for more information before you plan to travel.
Preparing for your return journey to the UK
If you’re returning to the UK from overseas, you will need to:
provide your journey and contact details before you travel
check if you need to self-isolate on your return
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
If you’re planning travel to Bulgaria, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCDO’s guidance on foreign travel insurance.
The UK has left the European Union. The rules on travel to EU countries will stay the same until 31 December 2020. This page will be updated with country-specific information for travellers to Bulgaria as things change. Sign up for email alerts and view the latest updates for UK nationals travelling to and living in Europe.
Sporadic protests occur across Bulgaria. You should avoid all protests, keep up to date with media reports and follow the advice of the local authorities. Such protests can become violent without warning and are best avoided. There are currently ongoing protests against the Government in Sofia city centre around the National Assembly and President’s buildings that should be avoided.
Be aware of pickpockets, bag thefts and street attacks on visitors in city centres and coastal resorts especially in crowded areas like buses, trains and busy streets. There has been an increase in thefts on the bus from Nessebar to Sunny Beach. Keep valuables in a safe. See Crime
There are regular reports of robberies and threatening behaviour by taxi drivers in Sunny Beach. There has also been an increase in the number of unlicensed taxis from Sofia airport overcharging passengers. If you’re travelling from the airport, make sure you take an official, licensed taxi. There is an official taxi rank in the arrivals hall. See Local travel
Terrorist attacks in Bulgaria can’t be ruled out. On 30 December 2016, the Bulgarian authorities announced heightened security measures in all cities, winter ski resorts, and places where large gatherings are expected. See Terrorism
There have been reports of holidaymakers being encouraged to submit a claim for personal injury if they have experienced gastric illness during their stay. You can find more information about the action you can take if you have suffered a personal injury on the Citizens Advice website. You should only consider pursuing a complaint or claim if you have genuinely suffered from injury or illness. If you make a false or fraudulent claim, you may face legal proceedings in the UK or Bulgaria.
If you’re living in or moving to Bulgaria, visit our Living in Bulgaria guide in addition to this travel advice.
If you need to contact the emergency services in Bulgaria call 112. English speaking operators are available. See Health
Carry a copy of the information pages of your passport at all times as proof of identity.
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.
The Overseas Business Risk service offers information and advice for British companies operating overseas on how to manage political, economic, and business security-related risks.
