This page has information on travelling to the Republic of Korea (South Korea). Check what you must do to return to the UK.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport from the UK, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in South Korea set and enforce entry rules.
All travellers
Testing on arrival
All foreign nationals arriving in South Korea are required to provide a negative PCR test certificate (with some exceptions – see ‘Exemptions’ below). The PCR test (RT-PCR, LAMP, TMA, SDA, and NEAR DNA amplification-based tests are also valid) must have been taken within the 48 hours prior to departure. As of 23 May 2022, a supervised Rapid Antigen Test (RAT, i.e. lateral flow test) issued by a hospital or clinic within 24 hours prior to departure will also be accepted. You should review the detailed information on the Embassy of the Republic of Korea in London website. If you have recently recovered from COVID-19 in Korea, you may upload a certificate of recovery rather than a negative PCR result into the Q-Code system prior to departure. For all other foreign travellers, it is required to receive a negative PCR/supervised RAT test result as described above before you are able to fly to South Korea. See the ‘If you’ve had COVID-19 in the past year’ section below for more information.
All arrivals, including children aged 5 and younger, and regardless of nationality and length of stay, are also required to be tested for coronavirus (COVID-19) within 72 hours after entering South Korea. You can reserve an appointment for a PCR test upon arrival at Incheon Airport through the Airport Clinic’s website or take a PCR test within 72 hours of arrival in South Korea at a medical institution near your accommodation or residence. Foreign short-term travellers must pay for a PCR test at either the Airport Clinic or a medical institution while Korean citizens and long-term visa-holders may visit a local public health centre to take a PCR test for free within 72 hours of arrival.
If you have registered your overseas vaccination history through the Quarantine COVID19 Defence (Q-Code) system before traveling to Korea, you may proceed to your final destination by public transport and take a PCR test within 72 hours (see ‘Quarantine requirements’ below). If your test is positive, you must comply with self-quarantine and treatment instructions issued by the Korean authorities. You will be required to stay at a quarantine centre for 7 days (if you are a short-term visitor) or to isolate at home (if you are a long-term resident and if your accommodation meets certain standards). You will not need to take another PCR test at the end of your quarantine. For more information contact the Korea Disease Control and Prevention Agency on 1339 from inside South Korea (support is available in English).
Quarantine requirements
Vaccinated travellers who have completed their COVID-19 vaccination in Korea or have completed vaccination overseas and have registered their vaccination history through the Quarantine COVID19 Defence (Q-Code) system before traveling to Korea will be eligible for quarantine exemption.
Vaccination is considered to be complete and remains valid indefinitely 14 days after the 2nd shot for a two-dose vaccine.
For those who have not completed vaccination or who have not registered their vaccination history through the Q-Code system, the default requirement when entering South Korea is to quarantine for seven days at home (if you are resident in South Korea) or in a government quarantine facility (if you are visiting). You can avoid quarantine entirely if you register your vaccination status through the Quarantine COVID19 Defence (Q-Code) system or if you have a ‘quarantine exemption’ certificate issued by a Korean embassy – see ‘Quarantine exemptions’ below.
If you’re visiting and must quarantine, you can quarantine with relatives if you can prove your relationship to them and if their accommodation meets certain standards. If you must quarantine and are a Korean national or long-term foreign resident with an Alien Registration Card and Korean residence, you may self-quarantine at home.
Foreign short-term travellers who are not eligible for quarantine exemption may be able to quarantine with family members under specific circumstances. Your family member must be your spouse or a “lineal” family member (parents/grandparents or children/grandchildren, not a sibling) of you or your spouse and must be resident in Korea (i.e. a Korean national or a foreigner with a long-term stay visa). You must be able to prove your family relationship, for example by showing your ID, a copy of your family member’s Korean ID, and a marriage or birth certificate, which must be legalised (or “apostilled”). UK-issued documents can be legalised by the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office - find out how to get a document legalised. Certified translations are required for documents not in English. Your family’s accommodation must meet certain basic standards (typically, they must have a separate bedroom and a separate bathroom for you). Your family must also be available to pick you up from the airport or the quarantine facility. These rules may change at short notice – your family member in Korea should double-check the rules before you travel by calling the Korea Disease Control and Prevention Agency on 1339 (support is available in English).
Foreign short-term travellers who are unvaccinated or who have not registered their vaccination history through the Quarantine COVID19 Defence (Q-Code) system must quarantine at a government-designated facility for seven days. Individuals are required to pay a daily charge of around 120,000KRW (approximately £75) while in government quarantine facilities.
Onward travel from the airport
If you are an unvaccinated, short-term visitor quarantining with family members, your family members must pick you up from the airport or from a quarantine facility later.
Quarantine transport options are available from the airport for unvaccinated travellers. Guidance is available at the airport on how best to proceed to your destination.
Vaccinated travellers may proceed to their final destination by public transport.
Data collection
Individuals from the UK will be tested for COVID-19 on arrival, and will need to participate with an active monitoring system via regular calls with a health expert and a specialised mobile app.
Make sure you have with you a mobile telephone with the roaming function enabled, and/or the telephone number of a friend, relative or contact who can update the authorities daily on your state of health. A hotel telephone number will not be accepted. Immigration authorities will undertake a test call before travellers leave the airport, and any individual unable to verify their contact details may be denied entry to South Korea.
If you’re fully vaccinated
Quarantine exemption availability
Vaccinated travellers who have completed their COVID-19 vaccination in Korea or have completed vaccination overseas and have registered their vaccination history through the Quarantine COVID19 Defence (Q-Code) system before traveling to Korea will be eligible for quarantine exemption.
Vaccination is considered to be complete and remains valid indefinitely 14 days after the 2nd shot for a two-dose vaccine.
Entrants from certain countries may be excluded from exemption, even if fully vaccinated. Check the Ministry of Health and Welfare’s website for further details.
Unvaccinated individuals may be able to apply for Quarantine Exemptions from Korean embassies in some circumstances. See ‘Quarantine exemptions’ below.
Proof of vaccination status
You do not need to demonstrate proof of overseas vaccination in order to enter South Korea, however, if you do not register completed overseas vaccinations through the Q-Code system, you will be expected to quarantine for seven days. If you were vaccinated in South Korea, your vaccination status will be automatically linked to the Q-Code system from the COOV database. All arrivals are required to be tested.
If you’re not fully vaccinated
There are no special provisions for unvaccinated individuals. Unvaccinated travellers should follow the rules for ‘All travellers’ above.
If you’ve had COVID-19 in the past year
If you have recently recovered from COVID-19, you will still need to receive a negative PCR or supervised RAT (lateral flow test) result as described in ‘Testing on arrival’ above before you are able to fly to South Korea. You should bring with you an official note from your doctor detailing when you tested positive, what treatment you received and/or what isolation you observed. If you test positive or inconclusive on arrival, Korean officials will consider this information when deciding how to proceed. Some British Nationals have tested negative in the UK and then tested positive on arrival in South Korea. Korean health officials have broad discretion in deciding what precautions are required and you may be required to quarantine even if you are no longer testing positive.
Otherwise, there are no special provisions for individuals who have had COVID-19 in the past year. You should follow the rules for ‘All travellers’ above.
Children and young people
Children aged 17 and under can follow the rules for ‘All travellers’ to enter South Korea.
There are some exceptions to the requirement for children to present a pre-departure PCR test on arrival – see ‘Exemptions from pre-departure COVID-19 tests’ below. Parents should note that young children are required to take a PCR test within 72 hours of arriving in South Korea, in line with the rules for adults.
Unvaccinated children aged 11 and younger do not need to quarantine if accompanied by family members whose vaccinations are registered through the Quarantine COVID19 Defence (Q-Code) system.
For more information see ‘If you’re fully vaccinated’.
If you’re transiting through South Korea
Transiting is when you pass through one country on the way to your final destination.
All transit passengers receive a temperature check on arrival in Korea. Symptomatic individuals will be subject to a COVID-19 test and hospitalisation if found positive. Passengers who do not show symptoms and/or test negative may continue their journey.
Transit passengers at Seoul Incheon Airport require a ticket/boarding pass for their onward flight to their final destination. They should confirm with the airline(s) before departure that their bags have been checked through to their final destination (as transit passengers are not able to collect and re-check in baggage on arrival in Incheon Airport).
Transit hotels are available in both Terminals 1 and 2 at Incheon Airport. A “layover” – i.e. passing through immigration to enter South Korea during a long gap between flights – is not possible in South Korea, as everyone who enters the country through immigration must proceed directly into the COVID-19 testing system and is subject, in most cases, to a seven day quarantine requirement.
Exemptions
Exemptions from pre-departure COVID-19 tests
Children aged five and under are not required to provide a negative PCR test certificate on arrival in South Korea. Individuals with quarantine exemptions issued by a Korean embassy for “humanitarian reasons” (i.e. to attend a funeral) or official business reasons are also exempt.
Quarantine exemptions
For overseas unvaccinated travellers arriving in South Korea, quarantine exemptions will be issued from Korean embassies only for attendance at the funeral of a close family member. You can apply for a quarantine exemption via the Korean Embassy in the country where you are resident. “Family member” is defined as your spouse, a sibling of you or your spouse, or a “lineal” family member (parents/grandparents or children/grandchildren) of you or your spouse. Guidance is available from the Embassy of the Republic of Korea in London.
Any UK family relationship certificates (i.e. marriage or birth certificates) that you submit as part of your application need to be legalised (or “apostilled”) by the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office before you submit them. Find out how to get a document legalised. South Korea does not accept marriage certificates or civil partnership documents between same-sex partners for the purposes of applying for a quarantine exemption.
If you are unvaccinated and are travelling to Korea for business, your employer can apply for a Quarantine Exemption Certificate through the Business Support Centre (in Korean).
Vaccinated travellers who have completed vaccination overseas and have registered their vaccination history through the Quarantine COVID19 Defence (Q-Code) system before traveling to Korea will be eligible for quarantine exemption.
For more information on the Q-Code System, see the ‘If you’re fully vaccinated’ section.
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
Passport validity
For those entering South Korea with a long-term visa, your passport should be valid for a minimum period of 6 months from the date of entry into South Korea. For short-term visitors applying for a Korea Electronic Travel Authorization (K-ETA) to enter South Korea without a visa, there is no requirement for a minimum period of passport validity. However, your passport should be valid for the duration of your entire stay in South Korea.
All foreigners living in South Korea are required to report any changes in their passport information (such as when receiving a new passport) either online using the Korean Immigration Office website or by visiting a local immigration office in South Korea. For further information, call the Korean Immigration Contact Centre (Tel: +82 1345).
Check with your travel provider to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Visas
Visas and K-ETA
If you have a British Citizen passport you can enter South Korea as a tourist for up to 90 days without a visa, though you should remain aware of the quarantine requirements. You must also have an onward or return ticket. It’s illegal to work on a tourist visa, whether as a teacher or in any other capacity.
You must be in possession of a Korea Electronic Travel Authorization (K-ETA) to enter Korea visa-free. You can complete your K-ETA application up to 24 hours before boarding your flight and it will be valid for two years from the date of approval. There is a small, non-refundable charge. Visit the official K-ETA website for more information and to apply.
If you have a different type of British nationality, or are travelling for any purpose other than tourism, you should check visa requirements with the Embassy of the Republic of Korea in London.
Long-term visa holders: re-entry permits
Foreign nationals residing in South Korea on most long-term visa types are allowed to re-enter South Korea within 1 year of departure without the need for a re-entry permit. For further information on re-entry permit exemption eligibility, call the Korean Immigration Contact Centre (Tel: 1345) or see the list of official announcements.
Foreign residents who intend to spend more than a year outside of South Korea should, in most cases, apply for a multiple re-entry permit via the HiKorea website before departure. If you require a re-entry permit, you should engage early with the Immigration Authorities and apply for a re-entry permit in good time – at least four working days – ahead of any planned travel.
Visas for working as an English teacher
To get a visa to teach English in South Korea, you must have a 3-year university degree. A TEFL qualification alone is not sufficient. If you are found to have obtained a teaching visa by deception, you will be detained and deported.
British nationals teaching English in South Korea have sometimes found living and working conditions to be below expectations, and have encountered difficulties getting the correct visas and residence permits. There have also been complaints of breach of contract, confiscation of passports, payment being withheld and inadequate or no medical insurance. Check all terms and conditions of your employment carefully and if possible speak to other teachers from the place where you plan to work before accepting any offer. If you are in South Korea and in need of assistance, you should contact British Embassy Seoul.
For those in possession of a work visa, all employment changes must be authorised by Korean Immigration.
British males of Korean origin
If you are a British male of Korean origin whose name appears on the Korean family register, you may be liable for military service even if you are travelling on your British passport.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents are accepted for entry, airside transit and exit from South Korea.
Customs declarations
Check the website of the Korea Customs Service for information on restricted or prohibited items that may not be brought into the country. If you are in any doubt about the legality of any items - including medications - you should declare them on entry.
South Korean customs authorities allow you to bring small amounts of medication for your personal use, provided that it is kept in carry-on baggage. It is advised to take an English language prescription from your doctor at home for both your prescription drugs and non-prescription medicines. It is also a good idea to consult the website of the South Korean Ministry of Food and Drug Safety before you travel to South Korea.
Returning to the UK
Check what you must do to return to the UK.
