At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
South Korean customs authorities allow you to bring small amounts of medication for your personal use, provided that it is kept in carry-on baggage. It is advised to take an English language prescription from your doctor at home for both your prescription drugs and non-prescription medicines. It is also a good idea to consult the website of the South Korean Ministry of Food and Drug Safety before you travel to South Korea.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Coronavirus
Cases of coronavirus (COVID-19) have been confirmed throughout South Korea.
While the majority of new and existing cases are within the designated “special care zones”, the number of cases elsewhere in South Korea also continues to rise. The virus may cause more severe symptoms in older people, and those with pre-existing medical conditions.You should exercise caution throughout the country, follow the advice of local authorities, and continue to comply with any additional screening measures put in place. You should ensure you have up to date, comprehensive health insurance.
The South Korean authorities have introduced a number of measures to limit the spread of the virus.
Special care zones
The Government of South Korea has designated the cities of Daegu, Cheongdo and Gyeongsan as “special care zones” following a high number of cases of coronavirus (COVID-19) in these areas. Medical services in these areas are under pressure and you may experience delays in receiving treatment should you become ill. If you’re already in Daegu, Cheongdo or Gyeongsan, follow the instructions and advice of the local authorities and pay particular regard to virus control testing and measures.
Screening
From 19 March, all travellers are subject to additional screening for COVID-19 on arrival at South Korean ports and airports. They will also be asked to report their health status to the authorities for 14 days after arrival. This reporting can be done via a special mobile app which can be downloaded to a smartphone at the airport. Travellers without a smartphone will be required to submit a working telephone number able to receive calls in South Korea for 14 consecutive days.
You should ensure you have with you a mobile telephone with the roaming function enabled, and/or the telephone number of a friend, relative or contact who can update the authorities daily on your state of health. A hotel telephone number is unlikely to be accepted.
If you are travelling as part of a group, at least one person in the group should meet this requirement. Immigration authorities will undertake a test call before travellers leave the airport, and any individual or group unable to verify their contact details may be denied entry to South Korea.
Travellers arriving with symptoms consistent with COVID-19 will be required to undergo testing at the airport, which will take 4-6 hours. Anyone testing positive for the virus will not be permitted to leave South Korea until they are clear of the virus. Testing and any subsequent treatment will be free of charge.
If you display symptoms or return a positive test result for COVID-19, you must comply with self-quarantine and treatment instructions issued by the Korean authorities. Failure to do so could result in deportation, the revocation of visas or residence permits and an entry ban, and you may be held liable for economic losses incurred by further transmission of the virus. The Ministry of Justice has made clear that this policy applies to foreign residents as well as short-term visitors.
Travel disruption
Flights between South Korea and a number of countries have been reduced, and some countries have altered their entry requirements for travellers who started their journey in, or transited through, South Korea. You should check with your airline, travel agency or the relevant websites for your destination for the latest information.
The Government of South Korea has announced that foreign nationals who have been in Hubei province in China within the previous 14 days will not be allowed to enter South Korea.
Further information
For British nationals in all affected areas, Public Health England advise that you should maintain good hand, respiratory and personal hygiene and should avoid visiting animal and bird markets or people who are ill with respiratory symptoms. There is a shortage in the supply of facemasks inside South Korea at present. Travellers who wish to use a facemask while in South Korea should aim to bring their own supply with them.
Further advice and details on confirmed cases can be found on the Korean Ministry of Health and Welfare website in English and Korean. South Korea’s Center for Disease Control and Prevention (KCDC) also provides daily updates in English and in Korean.
Further advice on coronavirus is also available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
You can find more information about cases in South Korea on the TravelHealthPro country page.
Medical treatment
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 119 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
Medical and dental care in South Korea is usually of a good standard but can be expensive. Staff may not speak English. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation.
Health risks
In spring there’s a risk of tick-borne disease across Korea. The national Disease Control and Prevention Centre advise all people taking part in leisure activities on grass to wear long sleeved shirts/tops and trousers.
Air pollution, including yellow dust pollution, is common in South Korea throughout the year and especially during spring months. When the concentration levels of dust particles are high, residents and visitors are advised to stay indoors as much as possible, close windows and drink plenty of water. This is particularly important for the elderly and those with respiratory problems. Follow local media reporting and the Korean Meteorological Service website for the latest advice.
