In the event of a natural disaster, the South Korean government will publish updates in Korean and English to the Natural Disaster Safety Portal.
The South Korean government’s Emergency Ready App, available from major app stores, provides safety guidance including translations into English of the emergency alerts which are pushed to mobile phones.
Typhoons
The typhoon season normally runs from June to November. You should monitor the progress of approaching storms on the Korea Meteorological Administration website or call 131 in Korea to get an accurate weather forecast in English and follow any advice given by the local authorities.   
See our tropical cyclones page for advice about what to do if you are caught up in a typhoon.
Typhoon Khanun
Typhoon Khanun is forecast to make landfall on the southern coast of South Korea on Thursday 10th August, and later to affect much of the Korean peninsula, including the Seoul metropolitan area. If you are in an affected area, you should monitor advisories issued by national and local authorities and take appropriate action as instructed. Progress of the typhoon can be monitored (in English) via the Ministry of the Interior and Safety website. You can subscribe to our email alert service to be notified of future updates.
Flooding and landslides
South Korea experiences heavy rainfall across the country during the summer rainy season, usually in June and July. Torrential rain may cause flooding near rivers and creeks, including in developed areas. Sites located downstream from large reservoirs or rivers may be subject to flash flooding after relatively short periods of intense rainfall and landslides are possible in hilly or mountainous areas.
You should monitor the forecasts for heavy rainfall on the Korea Meteorological Administration website and follow any advice given by the local authorities.
Earthquakes
Strong earthquakes are unusual in South Korea but not unheard of. Most earthquakes in South Korea are relatively weak (between 2.0 and 5.0 on the Richter scale). Information on earthquakes is published on the Korea Meteorological Administration website.
You should familiarise yourself with any guidance from your local authorities on safety procedures in the event of an earthquake. To learn more about what to do in case of an earthquake, check the safety tips from the Seoul Metropolitan Government.
