There remain commercial options to return to the UK from South Korea.
If you live in the UK and are currently visiting South Korea, you’re strongly advised to return now by commercial means. Don’t run the risk of getting stranded.
Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British Embassy on Twitter and Facebook.
Flights
Korean Air continue to operate direct flights from South Korea to the UK twice a week on Wednesday and Saturday. From 1 June, this will increase to three flights a week.
British Airways suspended its direct service from 12 April. If you have flights booked with British Airways after this date, contact British Airways urgently to make alternative arrangements to return home.
Indirect flights to the UK transiting via a third country are also available. Flights between South Korea and a number of countries have been reduced, and some countries have altered their entry requirements for travellers who started their journey in, or transited through, South Korea. Before flying, you should check with your airline, travel agency or the relevant websites for your destination for the latest information.
From 27 May, passengers will be required to wear masks on all flights from Korea.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Travelling to the airport
Buses, trains, taxis or domestic flights are available in Korea for inter-city travel and to reach the airport. From 27 May, the wearing of masks will be compulsory on Korean public transport.
Transiting in South Korea
Transit passengers will receive a temperature check on arrival in Korea. Symptomatic individuals will be subject to a COVID-19 test and hospitalisation if found positive. Passengers who do not show symptoms and/or test negative may continue their journey. Transit hotels are available in both Terminals 1 and 2 at Incheon Airport.
Your journey home: re-entering the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK. You:
need to provide your journey and contact details up to 48 hours before you’re due to arrive in the UK
are not allowed to leave the place you’re staying for the first 14 days you’re in the UK except in very limited situations (known as ‘self-isolating’)
See also the list of people who are exempt from the border rules.
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) also provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
If you cannot leave South Korea
See advice on staying in South Korea during coronavirus.
Further information
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
