Political situation
Tensions increased throughout 2017 due to the number of missile launches carried out by North Korea and the threat of further missile or nuclear tests. There were 2 nuclear tests in 2016 and one in 2017, a series of ballistic missile tests in 2016 and 2017, 2 intercontinental ballistic missile tests in July 2017 and one in November 2017. On 21 April 2018, North Korea announced a halt to nuclear and intercontinental ballistic missile testing. In early May 2019, the DPRK launched a series of short and close range ballistic missiles into the Sea of Japan.
Since the start of 2018 there has been a renewed contact between the North and South Korean governments, and North Korea and the United States. The two Koreas competed under a unified flag at the 2018 Winter Olympics, exchanged high-level delegations for the opening and closing ceremonies, and held three inter-Korean leaders’ summit in April, May and September 2018. The Panmunjom Declaration, signed at the first summit, confirmed the common goal of realising, through complete denuclearisation, a nuclear-free Korean Peninsula. Both countries also pledged to agree a peace treaty to formally end the Korean War, alongside a number of other commitments to build inter-Korean ties, reduce military tensions and establish a peace regime.
On 12 June 2018, US President Donald Trump met North Korea’s leader Kim Jong Un in Singapore. Their summit was the first ever meeting between a sitting US President and North Korean leader. In a joint statement, North Korea reaffirmed the commitment it made on 27 April to work towards complete denuclearisation of the Korean Peninsula. The US and North Korea also committed to establish new US-North Korea relations, to join their efforts to build a lasting and stable peace regime on the Korean peninsula, and to recover the remains of prisoners of war and those missing in action from the Korean War, and repatriate any remains already identified. The two leaders held a second summit in Hanoi on 27 to 28 February 2019. The meeting broke up without agreement. A further meeting between President Trump and Kim Jong Un took place on 30 June 2019 at the Demilitarized Zone (DMZ) that separates the two Koreas, in which the two agreed that working-level negotiations would resume within weeks.
However, the level of tension on the Korean Peninsula can change with little notice. Tensions increased after the sinking of the South Korean Navy Shipo Cheonan and an artillery attack against Yeonpyeong Island in 2010; when North Korea carried out 2 missile tests in 2012; and after nuclear tests in 2013, 2016, and 2017. Tensions can also rise during the regular South Korean-US military exercises, which take place throughout the year. You should follow the advice of local authorities and keep up to date with developments, including via news broadcasts and this travel advice.
Since the end of the Korean War in 1953, the Korean Peninsula has been divided by a demilitarised zone (DMZ) separating the DPRK and the Republic of Korea. Peace has been maintained under an armistice agreement but no formal peace treaty has ever been signed. If you’re in the area of the DMZ, you should exercise caution and follow the advice of the local authorities.
Contingency planning
At times of increased tensions, you should make yourself familiar with local procedures and preparations, including civil emergency exercises and advice (see below). You can also stay up to date with our travel advice for South Korea by subscribing to our email alert service to be notified of future updates, and by following our Twitter and Facebook channels.
As part of your own contingency plans, you should make sure you have easy access to your passport and other important documents such as nationality documents and birth and marriage certificates, as well as any essential medication. You can read our crisis overseas page for further information and advice, including sections on what you can do to prepare effectively, what you should do in the event of a crisis abroad, and how we can help you.
If the situation were to deteriorate, the British Embassy would pass information via this travel advice page and via Embassy Facebook and Twitter feeds.
Civil emergency exercises and advice
The South Korean authorities sometimes hold civil emergency exercises. Sirens are sounded, transport stopped and some people are asked to take shelter indoors, including in designated metro stations or basements. Shelters in Seoul are marked with a special symbol. Participation by foreign nationals in these exercises isn’t obligatory but you should follow any instructions by local authorities during any exercises.
The South Korean government has developed a smartphone application with civil emergency advice, including shelter locations, different types of alarms, medical facilities and emergency services. Search for ‘emergency ready app’ on Android or Apple app stores.
Crime
Crime against foreigners is rare but there are occasional isolated incidents. While most reported crimes are thefts, there have been some rare cases of assaults, including sexual assaults, particularly around bars and nightlife areas.
Take extra care of passports, credit cards and money in crowded areas and be careful in areas visited by foreigners, like Itaewon. Take care when travelling alone at night and only use legitimate taxis or public transport.
For emergency assistance, or to report a crime, call 112 for police (a 24 hour interpretation service is available) and 119 for ambulance and fire.
Demonstrations
Public demonstrations in South Korea are common. These gatherings are mostly peaceful and well-policed, but you should take extra care as in any crowded place. You should also be aware that under Korean law, foreign nationals are prohibited from engaging in political activities in South Korea.
Road travel
Changes to Korean traffic law came into effect on 25 June 2019. These changes lowered the maximum blood alcohol content threshold permitted when driving or in charge of a vehicle to 0.03% (from 0.05%). This change differs to the legal threshold in the UK, which is 0.035%.
All passengers in vehicles must wear seat belts including in rear seats. City buses that are not fitted with seat belts are exempt from this regulation.
Drivers are required to take precautionary measures when parking on hills/slopes (such as placing stops behind each wheel, or turning the steering wheel to ensure that the front wheels of the vehicle are angled towards the kerb).
Further information can be found in the Korean Road Traffic Act, though there is currently no English translation. If you need additional advice, contact the Korean police authority.
You’ll need an International Driving Permit to drive in South Korea. Make sure you have fully comprehensive insurance.
Car and motorbike drivers are presumed to be at fault in accidents involving motorcycles or pedestrians. Criminal charges and heavy penalties are common when accidents result in injury, even if guilt is not proved. Watch out for motorcycles travelling at speed on pavements.
Taxi drivers tend to speak little or no English. Although translation services are available, have your destination written in Korean, if possible with a map.
In 2016, there were 4,899 reported road deaths in South Korea. This equates to 9.5 road deaths per 100,000 of population and compares to the UK average of 2.8 road deaths per 100,000 of population in 2015.
Mobile telephones
Older (non-3G) phones bought outside South Korea will not normally work in the country, and fitting foreign phones with local SIMs (e.g. to avoid roaming fees) is not usually possible.
