Coronavirus guidance is being updated.
Read the Prime Minister’s statement for the latest information.

This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in South Korea as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in South Korea to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in South Korea
For information on entering South Korea, see Entry Requirements
Visas
The Government of South Korea has announced measures to extend the expiry date of some visas automatically due to the current situation with COVID-19. You should continue to consult the Korea Immigration Service website for more information, or contact 1345 (option 3 then *) from inside South Korea.
Long-term visa holders
From 1 June 2020, foreign nationals residing in South Korea on most types of long-term visa will need to apply for a re-entry permit at a local immigration office or at the airport before undertaking any travel out of South Korea. Those travelling with a re-entry permit will also be required to have a medical examination no earlier than 48 hours before they plan to return to South Korea, and to obtain a medical certificate in English or Korean to present to the Korean authorities on their arrival. The medical certificate must be signed by a medical professional at a recognised medical institution and include the date of the medical examination and either confirmation of a negative test for COVID-19 or a record of the presence or absence of fever, cough, chills, headache, breathing difficulty, muscle pain, and pulmonary symptoms. Long-term visa holders seeking to return to South Korea without a medical certificate may be refused entry.
Long-term visa holders leaving South Korea without a re-entry permit will have their visa and Alien Registration Card cancelled and will need to obtain a new long-term visa before they can re-enter South Korea.
Exceptions to this requirement include holders of A-1, A-2, A-3 and F-4 visas, or those issued with an Isolation Exemption Certificate by a Korean Embassy or consulate overseas.
For further information, call the Korean Immigration Contact Centre (Tel: 1345) or see the official announcement here.
Health
Make sure you have up to date, comprehensive health insurance.
Many public buildings, as well as public transport and airlines, require masks to be worn.
There is a shortage in the supply of facemasks inside South Korea at present. If you wish to use a facemask while in South Korea, you’re advised to bring your own supply with you.
For more information, visit our overview of medical treatment in South Korea.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in South Korea.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in South Korea, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
Further advice and details on confirmed cases can be found on the Korean Ministry of Health and Welfare website in English and Korean. South Korea’s Center for Disease Control and Prevention (KCDC) also provides daily updates in English and in Korean.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
