

Elevated political tensions
The Constitutional Court has announced that it will deliver its verdict on President Yoon’s impeachment on Friday 4 April. Large demonstrations are likely in response to the verdict. Protests are particularly likely in the following areas:
Around the Constitutional Court (near Anguk station)
Gwanghwamun Square and Sejong-daero, particularly between the City Hall/Deoksugung area and Gyeongbokgung
Around the Presidential Residence (in Hannam-dong)
Around the National Assembly (in Yeouido)
Access may be disrupted to facilities such as schools and offices in the likely protest locations, and to nearby tourist attractions including the palaces of Gyeongbokgung and Deoksugung, Gwanghwamun Square, Bukchon Hanok Village, and Insadong. Protests may also occur in other locations, including in other cities around South Korea.
You should follow the advice of local authorities and avoid large public gatherings. If you regularly travel to the affected locations, you may want to consider alternative arrangements while protests are ongoing. Be aware that under Korean law, it is illegal for foreign nationals to take part in political activities when in the country.
Protests may continue after the day of the verdict. You should monitor local media and this Travel Advice for updates. See  Safety and security page for more information.
Before you travel
No travel can be guaranteed safe. Read all the advice in this guide. You may also find it helpful to:
see general advice for women travellers
read our guide on disability and travel abroad
see general advice for LGBT+ travellers
read about safety for solo and independent travel
see advice on volunteering and adventure travel abroad
Travel insurance
If you choose to travel, research your destinations and get appropriate travel insurance. Insurance should cover your itinerary, planned activities and expenses in an emergency.
About FCDO travel advice
The Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) provides advice about risks of travel to help you make informed decisions. Find out more about FCDO travel advice.
Get travel advice updates
Sign up to get email notifications when this travel advice is updated.
Follow FCDO:   
travel advice on X
travel advice on Facebook
Travel Aware on Instagram
