Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Andorra on the TravelHealthPro website.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
In order to travel from Andorra via France, you must complete a travel certificate online. See FCDO Travel Advice on entry requirements to France. You can find further details on the French government website.
In order to travel from Andorra via Spain, you will need to complete a travel certificate online. See FCDO Travel advice for Spain. You can find further details here.
Before travelling to France or Spain from Andorra, you should consult the web pages of the relevant Andorran, Spanish or French authorities.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Andorra.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Andorra
The Andorran authorities have various restrictions in place including social distancing of 1.5m unless specific protocols are in place. The use of a mask is not mandatory in public spaces and on urban roads, provided that there are no crowds of people that do not allow you to maintain the minimum distance of 1.5 meters. The use of face masks is mandatory in enclosed public premises such as bars, restaurants, shops and cultural establishments, among others. All people eight years old and over are required to wear masks.
Groups of up to 10 people are able to meet indoors and up to 20 in outdoor spaces, including in private spaces. Limits to capacity are also in place in shops and other places of interest, and you should follow the instructions displayed locally. Similar restrictions are in place in gyms and sports centres. Smoking is not permitted in any public area.
A COVID certificate must be shown by those 16 years of age and over to access most public places, including bars, restaurants, tourist accommodation, spas and other tourism activities. The Andorran authorities consider either a vaccination certificate, a recovery certificate, or a negative diagnostic test as an acceptable COVID certificate.
You can find more information regarding the measures in place on the Andorran government website.
Healthcare in Andorra
If you believe you have COVID-19 symptoms, call 116. Do not go directly to a hospital or healthcare facility.
For general information surrounding the measures introduced by the Andorran authorities, call 118.
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Andorra.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Andorra
Wherever possible British nationals should aim to be vaccinated in the country where they live. We will update this page when the Government of Andorra announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Andorran national vaccination programme started in February 2021 and is using the Pfizer-BioNTech and Astra-Zeneca vaccines. The Andorran Ministry of Health has published information about their national vaccination programme registration system (only available in Catalan). You can only register online if you are registered as a resident of the Principality or if you have a valid work permit. Children under the age of sixteen cannot register. For more general information from the Andorran government regarding vaccines in Andorra, see their information page (only available in Catalan).
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in Andorra, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
