This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Andorra set and enforce entry rules. For further information contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to. You should also consider checking with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Entry rules in response to coronavirus (COVID-19)
All travel into Andorra requires transit via neighbouring France or Spain. You should check the entry requirements for France or Spain in conjunction with this travel advice.
If you’re travelling to Andorra via Spain and not staying overnight in Spain, then when completing Spain’s online Health Control Form you should use the address of your arrival airport as the address of your stay.
Passengers arriving from UK are not required to provide any health certification upon arrival in Andorra. All travellers are advised by the Andorran authorities to take preventive measures (including social distancing, hands sanitation and wearing masks) and to minimise social interactions.
For further information, visit the Andorra COVID information page.
Regular entry requirements
The information on this page covers the most common types of travel and reflects the UK government’s understanding of the rules currently in place. Unless otherwise stated, this information is for travellers using a full ‘British Citizen’ passport.
The authorities in the country or territory you’re travelling to are responsible for setting and enforcing the rules for entry. If you’re unclear about any aspect of the entry requirements, or you need further reassurance, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
You should also consider checking with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Travelling to Andorra
All travel into Andorra requires transit via neighbouring France or Spain. You should check the entry requirements for each country in conjunction with this travel advice.
Visas
British nationals don’t need a visa to visit Andorra.
If you wish to stay for longer than 3 months, you must apply for a work or residence permit through the local immigration services. You can find information on the different requirements (in Catalan) from the Andorran government.
Passport validity
For entry to Andorra, your passport should be valid for the proposed duration of your stay. No additional period of validity beyond this is required under Andorran entry requirements.
All travel into Andorra requires transit via neighbouring France or Spain.
If you are planning to travel to an EU country (except Ireland), or Switzerland, Norway, Iceland, Liechtenstein, Andorra, Monaco, San Marino or Vatican City, you must meet the Schengen area rules.
Your passport must meet 2 requirements. It must be:
less than 10 years old on the day you enter (check the ‘date of issue’)
valid for at least 3 months after the day you plan to leave (check the ‘expiry date’)
We are asking the European Commission to clarify the 10-year rule. Their guidance for Schengen border guards may not be updated until the spring of 2022. Until then, for some Schengen countries your passport may need to be less than 10 years old during your whole visit, and the 3 months at the end of your visit may need to be within 10 years of your passport’s issue date.
Check both the issue date and the expiry date in your passport. If you renewed your passport early, extra months may have been added to its expiry date. This could affect the requirement for your passport to be less than 10 years old.
Contact your travel provider or embassy of the country you are visiting if you think that your passport does not meet both these requirements. Renew your passport if you need to.
Travelling with children
Single parents or other adults travelling alone with children should travel with a copy of any custody documents and written authorisation of the other parent.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are accepted for entry and exit from Andorra.
