At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Coronavirus
The Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advise against all but essential travel to Andorra due to an ongoing outbreak of coronavirus (COVID-19), and in line with various controls and restrictions announced by the Andorran authorities and measures taken in neighbouring France and Spain.
On 16 March the Andorran authorities announced a series of preventive measures, including the closure of most shops other than those selling food or other essential items such as pharmacies. This follows the cancellation of all leisure, cultural and sports activities organised by public administrations, and closure of ski resorts. Public transport is operating at a reduced capacity and schools, higher education institutions and vocational training centres are closed.
You can find more information regarding the measures in place on the Andorran government website (in Catalan).
If you believe you have symptoms, do not go directly to a hospital or healthcare facility. Instead, please call 116. For general information surrounding the measures introduced by the Andorran authorities, call 118.
You should refer to the Spain travel advice or France travel advice for information on the restrictions to movement in those countries, and follow the advice of the Spanish or French authorities if transiting through either country.
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
You can find more information about cases in Andorra on the TravelHealthPro website.
Local medical care
The European Health Insurance Card (EHIC), does not provide health cover in Andorra. Make sure you have comprehensive travel and medical insurance that is valid for travel to non-EU countries. Check that your policy covers you for all the activities you want to undertake, like skiing or rafting.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 116 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you’re referred to a medical facility for treatment.
