Crime
Street crime is rare, but you should take care of your personal belongings. Don’t keep money and valuables all in one place. Keep a photocopy or scanned copy of your passport somewhere safe.
Be alert to the possible use of ‘date rape’ and other drugs including ‘GHB’ and liquid ecstasy. Buy your own drinks and keep sight of them at all times to make sure they are not spiked; female travellers should be particularly careful. Alcohol and drugs can make you less vigilant, less in control and less aware of your environment - especially at altitude. If you drink, know your limit - remember that drinks served in bars are often stronger than those in the UK.
Avoid splitting up from your friends, and don’t go off with people you don’t know.
Legal aid is only available for residents in Andorra. This means travellers will always need to hire a private lawyer.
Road travel
Driving is on the right in Andorra (opposite to the UK). It’s a legal requirement for motorists travelling to or transiting Andorra to carry 2 red warning triangles, to be placed in front of and behind the vehicle in the event of an accident or breakdown. Drivers must have a spare pair of glasses (if needed for driving), a spare wheel, and a full set of spare light bulbs plus the tools to change them. If you have to leave your vehicle due to an accident or breakdown, or while awaiting the arrival of the emergency services, you must wear a reflective jacket. Failure to do so could result in a heavy fine.
Carry a certificate of insurance with you in case you are stopped. If you have hired a car and bought insurance, you should be given documentation.
Andorra has stricter drink driving laws than many other countries, including the UK, and the authorities impose strict penalties.
Seat belts are required for front seat passengers. No children under the age of ten should be in the front seat and small children must be in an approved child safety seat.
Talking on mobile phones when driving is forbidden but you are allowed to use a completely hands-free unit.
See the RAC and AA guides to driving in Andorra.
Winter sports
If you’re planning a skiing holiday to Andorra, contact the Andorran Foreign Ministry for advice on safety and weather conditions before travelling.
Off-piste skiing is highly dangerous. Follow safety instructions carefully to protect yourself against avalanches. Further information can be found on the European Avalanche Warning Service and Ski Andorra websites.
If an accident occurs whilst mountaineering, canyoning, potholing or climbing, or if you become lost, telephone the Emergency Services on the following numbers:
112 - General Emergencies / Mountain Rescue
118 - Ambulance/Fire Brigade
110 - Police
116 - Medical Emergency Service
Read more about how to stay safe on the slopes.
Consular assistance
There is an Honorary British Consul in Andorra, under the supervision of the British Consulate - General, Barcelona.
To contact our Honorary Consul in Andorra or to request Consular assistance in Andorra, you should first make contact with the British Consulate General in Barcelona.
British Consulate-General
Edifico Torre de Barcelona
Avenida Diagonal 477 - 13
08036
Barcelona
Spain.consulate@fcdo.gov.uk
Telephone: (+34) 93 366 6200
