This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Andorra as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Andorra to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Andorra
On 16 March the Andorran authorities announced a series of preventive measures, including the closure of most shops other than those selling food or other essential items such as pharmacies. This follows the cancellation of all leisure, cultural and sports activities organised by public administrations, and the closure of ski resorts.
Public transport is operating at a reduced capacity and schools, higher education institutions and vocational training centres are closed.
You can find more information regarding the measures in place on the Andorran government website (in Catalan).
Health
If you believe you have symptoms, do not go directly to a hospital or healthcare facility. Instead, please call 116. For general information surrounding the measures introduced by the Andorran authorities, call 118.
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Andorra.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Andorra, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
You can find more information about cases in Andorra on the TravelHealthPro website.
