The FCDO advises against all but essential travel to:
the whole of Andorra based on the current assessment of COVID-19 risks.
If you are returning to the UK from Andorra, you will need to self-isolate on your return (unless you are exempt). Check the latest guidance for England, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales.
Travel is subject to entry restrictions
All travel into Andorra requires transit via neighbouring France or Spain. You should check the entry requirements for each country in conjunction with this travel advice
The Andorran Government advises that people traveling to Andorra from the United Kingdom must, in addition, follow COVID related safety measures.
See Entry requirements for more information before you plan to travel.
Preparing for your return journey to the UK
If you’re returning to the UK from overseas, you will need to:
provide your journey and contact details before you travel
check if you need to self-isolate on your return
If your return journey to the UK transits another country, you should check whether it is subject to a travel ban or any other additional requirements. If so, contact your travel provider.
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
If you’re planning travel to Andorra, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCDO’s guidance on foreign travel insurance.
For information about COVID-19 vaccines, see the Coronavirus page.
Around 150,000 British nationals visit Andorra every year. Most visits are trouble-free.
The European Health Insurance Card (EHIC) isn’t valid in Andorra. Take out comprehensive travel and medical insurance before travelling. See Health
Ski resorts are currently closed. See Winter sports
Terrorist attacks in Andorra can’t be ruled out. See Terrorism
Drinking alcohol in low temperatures and high altitude will have a greater impact on you and can be dangerous or even fatal.
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.
