Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Cuba on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
If coming to Cuba, you should pack masks, sanitary hand gel, handkerchiefs and other essential items that may prevent transmission, as these items are not always available in Cuba.
You may face a long queue to shop in a pharmacy. Over-the-counter medicines and pharmacy products are not always available. You should bring anything you might need with you.
You should also bring your prescription medicines with you and think about bringing extra in case you have to stay longer than planned.
You should also bring your prescription medicines and any other pharmacy-type products you need with you and bring extra in case you have to stay longer than planned.
International travel
All airports in Cuba are open again for commercial and charter flights. Havana Airport re-opened on 15 November 2020. From 6 February 2021:
The frequency of regional flights will be reduced
All international flights using Jose Marti International Airport in Havana will be at Terminal 3. This may impact on flight arrival and departure times. You should contact airlines directly to know if and when they will have scheduled flights to and from Cuba
Only airline passengers are allowed into the airport terminal buildings. When you are travelling to the airport, you can only be accompanied by the person driving you to and dropping you at the airport
At the beginning of 2021, the only direct flights between UK and Cuba were holiday charter flights to Varadero, although these are now suspended during the UK Covid-19 measures (advising against non-essential international travel) announced on 4 January 2020. Commercial airlines may insist you have a ticket for your onward connection to return to the UK to board the plane in Havana, and evidence of a negative test for COVID-19 taken within 3 days before your travel to the UK. See ‘Returning to the UK’ section.
You should check the FCDO Travel Advice for any country you have to transit on your journey to/from Cuba, to keep up to date with current entry and transit rules.
See Entry requirements and check with the airline or your travel company for the latest information.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out about entry requirements and what you will need to do when you arrive in Cuba.
Returning to the UK
Check what you must do to travel abroad and return to England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test within three days of your departure to the UK, in line with UK government testing requirements.
If you are travelling with a tour operator on a package holiday, you should speak to the representative about how to comply with this requirement. If you are travelling independently in Cuba, you can use the list of medical facilities to find the nearest test centre that can give you the result in time for your travel. You will have to pay for your COVID-19 test by credit card or with GBP or US Dollars (may be between $30 and $50).
You will be required to present your (negative) test certificate to the airline and to UK Border Force on arrival in UK.
If your pre-departure test is positive, you will not be allowed to travel and will have to follow the Cuban protocols that include being admitted to hospital or health centre.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Visa extensions and departure
If you want to remain in Cuba longer than the time allowed on arrival by Cuban Immigration Authorities, you should contact the nearest Immigration Office for advice on how to extend your visa.
If you have dual British and Cuban nationality, you are subject to Cuban measures. From 1 April 2020, dual nationals required permission (from Cuban Immigration offices) to leave Cuba on the special repatriation and humanitarian flights. That is no longer a requirement but could be re-introduced if the Cuban authorities implement any new measures.
Travel in Cuba
Travel and transport within and between Provinces varies according to the measures in place. Any change in the situation in a province or municipality may mean inter-provincial or municipal transport links also change.
Travel in and out Havana is restricted from 12 January 2021 through specific check points with sanitary controls, and (public and private) transport services in Havana will only operate between 5am and 9pm.
From Friday 24 September 2021, a curfew is in place in Havana between 10.30pm to 5am which applies to any movement of vehicles and persons. The only permitted exceptions are for the transport of essential workers and supplies, and certain other categories with official permission.
Face masks must be worn at all times when travelling on buses, in taxis, and private hire vehicles.
Visitors are allowed to hire cars (see important information in Road Travel section) but should check with the hire companies if they are open, have cars available, and check where you can drive to under current COVID-19 measures, before making plans.
Check with your tour operator and seek local advice if you have questions about excursions to other parts of Cuba, including whether car hire is allowed.
Accommodation
Hotels and guest houses are open but to a limited occupancy. Guests may have to wear face masks in some hotel areas and facilities.
Campsites are open also to a limited capacity.
Medical teams in hotels will check on health of guests, including taking their temperature, and will be available to guests who feel unwell in between those visits. Local medical representatives will visit campsites and “casas particulares”. Anyone with respiratory symptoms may be moved to a clinic or isolation centre and will have to pay for PCR test(s) and the medical services by credit card. Any travelling companion may be required to self-isolate in their accommodation pending a negative PCR test result, or be tested themselves.
Hotels may limit the numbers of people using facilities at any one time, especially swimming pools (if open) and elevators.
Public spaces and services
Wearing a face mask in public is compulsory or you risk being fined, as is social distancing of a minimum of 1.5 metres.
Shops in all Provinces can open but must limit the number of customers within the shop. This means there are queues to enter shops.
From 13 January, shops in Havana will only be allowed to open between 9am and 5pm on Monday to Saturday and between 9am and 1pm on Sunday. Shops can only open to sell essential food and hygiene products.
Cafés, bars and restaurants (except in Havana from 13 January) are allowed to open but must limit the opening hours, the number of customers and separate tables by 1.5 metres. From 24 September 2021, restaurants in Havana can open until 9:30pm if they have been approved to do so by the health authorities. More details can be found here. Drinking alcohol in public or hosting or attending a party in Havana is not allowed.
In addition:
Public parks can open, but currently only between 5am and 7pm in Havana
Social clubs, gyms, museums, gardens, theatres etc can open (except in Havana) to a limited capacity and visitors must observe social distancing
Swimming pools can open to a limited capacity and to restricted visit times, to allow cleaning for the next opening times. Public pools in Havana are open from 29 September 2021
Beaches in Havana are open from 29 September 2021 but limited numbers of people may be allowed, and there may be personnel at the beaches to manage access. Masks must be worn except when in the water
Exercising on public roads in Havana is permitted from 29 September 2021, as is the use of gyms or sports grounds
Religious gatherings in Havana are not allowed. Elsewhere, churches can open for services, following government sanitary and distancing advice
Travel agencies may be closed and tourist excursions suspended. Check with your tour operator
Anyone who does not follow local rules can be fined or even prosecuted.
Healthcare in Cuba
If you think you have COVID-19 symptoms, you should contact a local clinic straight away. If you are staying in a hotel, the hotel reception will be able to contact medical personnel for you. Owners of “casas particulares” will be able to help you to contact the local medical services.
If your PCR test is positive (even if you arrived with a certificate of a negative PCR test taken within 72 hours of your departure to Cuba) you will have to go into hospital or a centre being run by the Ministry of Health. You may not have any or much internet access. Your mobile phone roaming may not work in Cuba.
If you need to stay in hospital or under medical care, you must pay the bill by credit card when being discharged, or arrange payment directly by your travel insurance company. Cash payment (GBP, US Dollars, or Euros) is permitted too if credit cards do not work so you are advised to make contingency plans to bring cash with you.
If your PCR test is positive, any travelling companions with you will have to self-isolate in the accommodation and be tested again.
Cuban authorities aim to have PCR test results within 48 hours but that is not always achievable given the high volume of testing.
If you are staying in private home or a hotel, you are likely to receive regular home checks by medical representatives (known as “pesquisia”).
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health. You are advised to pack items to help you to pass the time in a medical facility or self-isolation.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Cuba.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Cuba
We will update this page when the Government of Cuba announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Cuban national vaccination programme started in May 2021 and is using the Abdala and Soberana 02 vaccines. The Government of Cuba has stated that British nationals resident in Cuba are eligible for vaccination if they choose to join the programme. Further information on the vaccination programme is available on the Government of Cuba Ministry of Health webiste.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in Cuba, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
