The Cuban government is reforming the currency in Cuba. From 1 January 2021 the Cuban Convertible Peso (CUC) – that wasthe currency used by visitors – is removed from circulation. Thereafter, the Cuban National Peso (CUP known as ‘moneda nacional’) will be the only legal cash currency in Cuba. CUC may be exchanged at a bank or cadeca between January and 30 June 2021 at the rate of CUC1: CUP 24.
You should not take CUC or CUP out of the country. Allow plenty of time to change any remaining Cuban currency at the airport. You will need to show your boarding pass to exchange currency. There may be limited international currencies available at that time so you may not be able to change all the Cuban currency that you have. You should exchange any CUC before you pass through immigration. CUC is not accepted in duty free shops or cafes in the departure area after immigration. It is recommended to have Euros, pound sterling or Canadian dollars for cash payments there.
Don’t change money anywhere other than at Cadeca exchange houses, large hotels or banks, due to the prevalence of forged currency. Always check transactions carefully. Where possible ask for a mix of denominations. Ignore individuals offering exchange facilities to avoid queues.
Check with your bank before you travel to confirm that your debit, credit and ATM cards will work in Cuba. If your bank can’t confirm this then you should bring sterling or euros in cash, or travellers cheques. Bank notes should be in good condition with no tears, rips or markings. Scottish bank notes cannot be exchanged. From June 21st, Cuban banks will stop accepting cash bank deposits in US dollars. This will make it difficult to exchange US dollars or use them in cash transactions.
Travellers cheques and credit cards drawn on American banks aren’t widely accepted. There are virtually no ATMs available for drawing cash against Cirrus or Switch cards. Credit card transactions, including withdrawals from ATMs, are subject to local commission charges of approximately 3% in addition to your bank transaction charges.
Many international hotel shops now only accept payment by credit card, and not in CUC or CUP. Check with your hotel or tour operator before you travel.
