Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

There are currently no scheduled commercial flight options available to return to the UK from Cuba. The last scheduled commercial flight to Europe left Cuba on 1 April 2020. From midnight on 1 April 2020, the arrival of all commercial and charter flights was suspended by Cuban authorities until further notice.
We know this is concerning for British people trying to leave Cuba. The UK government is working closely with airlines, the Cuban authorities and other governments to make sure options are available for your return to the UK as soon as possible.
What to do
You should follow our Embassy Facebook page and Embassy Twitter account where we are publishing any announcements on repatriation flights that are arranged and the latest information we have on local measures to be followed until you can leave Cuba. We are in regular contact with the various local authorities during this time. When flights resume, if you are taking a flight via another country, check the latest FCO travel advice for that country to be sure you can transit or enter that country.
If, for whatever reason, you did not leave Cuba before the last flight service you should:
follow the advice/ instructions of Cuban authorities, including local measures to help minimize your risk of exposure to coronavirus. Your safety and security is their responsibility
contact your insurance provider
see a doctor if you take prescription medicine and do so in good time before your stock runs out;
find accommodation that is suitable for your needs, being aware that the Cuban authorities may designate where tourists can stay during this period
keep up-to-date with the latest information from transport providers and local authorities on your future departure options, and our travel advice, Embassy Facebook page and Embassy Twitter account;
keep in regular contact with family and friends at home, so they know you are safe and well
Cubans who are dual nationals should check with local immigration authorities on whether they will be able to leave Cuba when flights resume and while the other current Government of Cuba measures for coronavirus are in place.
See more information and advice about staying where you are if you cannot return to the UK.
Future travel options
The UK government is working closely with airlines, the Cuban authorities and other governments to make sure options are available for you to return to the UK as soon as possible.
The Embassy Facebook page and Embassy Twitter account will be updated when departure options become available, including the information on how to book flights and where to check terms and conditions.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Travel to the Airport
If you do get a flight out of Cuba while current measures are in place in Cuba (see coronavirus travel advice) you should plan your journey to the airport carefully, with an authorised (yellow) taxi or transport service.
Your journey home
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
The Embassy Facebook page and Embassy Twitter account will be updated when departure options become available.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance you can contact the British Embassy on +53 7 214 2200.
The Embassy cannot provide further information or advice about further departure options over the phone. The Embassy Facebook page and Embassy Twitter account will be updated when departure options become available, including the information on how to book flights and where to check terms and conditions.
Further information
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
