

Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Cuba
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Cuba, attacks cannot be ruled out.
Political situation
Cuba is ruled by a single party, with a high level of social control. Opposition parties are not allowed. There are restrictions on freedom of speech, association and assembly for Cuban nationals. Any political demonstrations not approved by the government may be broken up by the authorities.
Avoid any demonstrations or large gatherings and follow the advice of the local authorities. Internet access can sometime be blocked during times of political tension.
Crime    
Levels of crime are generally lower than in the UK, but the difficult economic situation means opportunistic crime is increasing. Muggings are a risk, particularly at night.
Protecting your belongings
There is a risk of theft from luggage when baggage is being handled on arrival or departure at the airport. You should:
not pack valuables in your hold luggage
lock suitcases
shrink-wrap luggage before check-in if possible
Be aware of pickpockets and bag-snatching:
in the streets of Old Havana or any crowded areas
on public transport
in nightclubs
Do not carry large amounts of cash or wear expensive-looking jewellery. Mobiles and laptops are particularly attractive to thieves. Leave valuables in a hotel safe.
Beware of theft from your accommodation, particularly from private guest houses (‘casas particulares’).
Fake taxi drivers
There are a small number of criminals who pose as tour operators or taxi drivers. These fake drivers operate at the airport and around Old Havana. Only travel with your tour operator. If you need to use a taxi from the airport, make sure it’s a registered yellow taxi.
Vehicle crime
There are sometimes car-related crimes and muggings in Havana, and other tourist areas. Do not hail taxis or accept lifts from anyone you do not know. Take care when driving in central Havana, particularly at night. Keep doors locked and windows closed.
There have been attacks on foreigners in hire cars after deliberate puncturing of tyres. If you are in a remote area with a punctured tyre drive on to the nearest town before stopping. Do not pick up hitchhikers.
Laws and cultural differences
Illegal drugs penalties   
Cuba has strict laws on the use, possession and trafficking of illegal drugs. Cuban courts can give severe penalties for drug-related offences. Pack all luggage yourself and do not carry items for anyone else.
Using cameras in restricted areas
Avoid all military zones and other restricted areas. Do not take photographs or videos in these areas. Possession of photographs or information relating to military areas or installations can be regarded as espionage and could result in a prison sentence.  
LGBT+ travellers 
Same-sex sexual activity is legal in Cuba, but gender diversity is not fully understood or accepted by the general population. Same-sex marriages are recognised under Cuban law.
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Risk of detention
If you break the law, or are suspected of causing injury to someone, you may be stopped from leaving Cuba during the investigation and trial, and you could be imprisoned. Contact the British Embassy in Havana as soon as possible for assistance.
Money
You must only exchange money at the Cadeca exchange houses. It is illegal to exchange money anywhere else, including with any individuals who may offer exchange services. If you’re caught making an unauthorised exchange, you could be fined or get a prison sentence.
Check with your bank before you travel that your debit, credit and ATM cards will work in Cuba. There are often severe shortages of Cuban national pesos available through ATMs, so it’s a good idea to bring cash in euros or US dollars. Expect long queues.
Following a banking reform, the government is encouraging businesses and consumers to use electronic payments rather than cash. State-run hotels and shops only accept bank card payments, but privately run hostels (‘casas particulares’), restaurants and shops may ask for cash payment in local or foreign currency.
Transport risks
Road travel
If you’re planning to drive, see information on driving abroad.  
You can drive in Cuba with a UK driving licence for up to 6 months. After 6 months, you must pass a driving test and get a Cuban driving licence.
You can hire a car in Cuba, but fuel shortages can make it difficult to get petrol or diesel, especially for long distances. If you hire a car with a driver, they will know where to source fuel.
Motorcycles and scooters
If you hire a moped or motorbike, check the condition of the vehicle carefully. All drivers and passengers must wear a crash helmet.
Taxis
Three-wheel Coco-taxis may be in an unsafe condition. Tourists have been injured and killed when riding in these vehicles.
Official yellow taxis are generally reliable. Avoid private taxis and old private classic taxi cars as it is unlikely that they will be properly licensed, or have modern safety features. It is best to book rides in old classic cars from reputable companies.
Road conditions
Driving standards are variable. Many vehicles, including public transport, are badly maintained. Drivers are prone to stop suddenly and may not signal. Roads are poorly lit and badly sign-posted. Avoid driving at night as animals and unlit vehicles are a danger and you may not see hazards such as potholes.
Extreme weather and natural disasters
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards.
Hurricanes
The hurricane season in Cuba is from June to November each year. Heavy rains often cause flash floods and landslides. After a hurricane, power, communications and water supplies can be disrupted. In extreme weather conditions, flights to and from Cuba may be delayed or cancelled.
Earthquakes
Cuba is in an active earthquake zone, but strong earthquakes are not common. The US Federal Emergency Management Agency website has advice about what to do before, during and after an earthquake.
