Coronavirus guidance is being updated.
Read the Prime Minister’s statement for the latest information.

This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Cuba as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Cuba to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19). On 11 June, the Government set out three recovery phases that will gradually lift the measures in place. All Provinces, EXCEPT for Havana, are in phase 1 of the recovery. No date has been given for when Havana will enter phase 1.
Moving around in Cuba
For information on entering Cuba, see Entry Requirements
Measures still in place in Havana
Wearing masks in public places is compulsory, including in vehicles.
People must maintain a minimum of distance of one metre between them.
People should not leave their accommodation unless there are essential reasons, e.g. to get money, go to a clinic, go to the airport (only when flights resume). All excursions are suspended. A medic will visit the hotel twice per day. As the number of guests in hotels reduces, hotels will close and the guests will be moved into one hotel.
Tourists can only stay in authorised casas particulars (private houses), and must stay in the house or may be moved to government hotels. The government will cover the transport. The cost of the hotel may not be the same as the private house.
All discos, nightclubs, gymnasiums, etc (government or private owned for public access, and in hotels) are closed.
Restaurants and bars have restricted services; only delivery or take away services will be allowed.
Camp sites are closed.
Tourists can only move around for essential trips and in officially authorised and licensed transport, e.g. yellow taxis to go to a clinic. Tourists can no longer rent cars.
Transport between provinces is suspended. Urban transport services have been limited from 11 April to essential services and fewer people are allowed to travel in a bus or car. Private taxi services are suspended. Car rental is not allowed. People cannot travel from Havana to any Provinces in phase 1 recovery. Nor can anyone visit Havana unless they have special permission.
There is an increased police presence in the streets and shops, to monitor that people are following the measures.
If you have dual British and Cuban nationality, you are subject to Cuban measures and should check your immigration status to clarify if you can leave Cuba while current travel restrictions are in place (and when flights resume). If you need permission to leave, you should get this from the immigration office in Havana; permission cannot be given at the airport.
Provinces in Phase 1
Wearing masks in public places is compulsory, including in vehicles.
People in queues, or public places, must maintain a minimum of distance of one metre between them.
Restaurants, bars, gyms, swimming pools and beaches will re-open but must observe limits on number of people, following distancing requirements, and rules on opening hours.
Public and private transport services within the Province will resume but there will limits on the numbers of passengers to observe distancing. Only passengers will be allowed into bus or train terminals. Car rental is not allowed.
Visas
During the period of special Cuban government measures, visa extension requirements have been suspended. If you are still in Cuba and your visa has expired or will expire while flights are suspended, you can ask the hotel management to help you to enquire with the local immigration office (there is one in each municipality).
Health
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Cuba.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Cuba, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
