COVID-19 entry restrictions for Cuba
Before you travel, check the ‘Entry requirements’ section for Cuba’s current entry restrictions and requirements. These may change with little warning. Monitor this advice for the latest updates and stay in contact with your travel provider.
Returning to the UK
Cuba is on the amber list for entering England. Check what you must do to enter England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
If you’re planning travel to Cuba, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section. The measures in place may differ between and within Provinces and Municipalities according to the level of COVID-19 cases and transmission. The situation and measures can change quickly. Anyone not complying with local rules, including self-isolation in hotels when required, can be fined.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. COVID insurance cover is compulsory for travel to Cuba. See the FCDO’s guidance on foreign travel insurance.
For information about COVID-19 vaccines, see the Coronavirus page.
The British Embassy in is Havana open to the public by appointment only. If you need emergency consular assistance you should telephone the Embassy +53 7 214 2200 and select the option for emergency consular assistance (note there is a short time delay to connect to the officer). We are receiving an unprecedented number of calls so it may take some time to be connected. We are also receiving a high volume of email enquiries and may not be able to deal with your individual enquiry straight away.
The Cuban Convertible Peso (CUC) was removed from circulation on 1 January 2021. The Cuban National Peso (CUP) is now the currency in use. See Money.
The hurricane season in Cuba normally runs from June to November. You should monitor weather updates and track the progress of approaching storms. See Natural disasters.
In September 2019, the Cuban government announced that it was taking measures to manage electricity and fuel supplies in view of limited stocks and deliveries of oil. Government measures included prioritising supplies for essential services, and reducing transport services. The situation had normalised but services and stocks are now affected by Coronavirus.
Crime levels are low and mainly in the form of opportunistic theft. See Crime
Be cautious when travelling in Cuba. Driving standards are variable. See Road travel
UK health authorities have classified Cuba as having a risk of dengue, and Zika virus transmission. For more information and advice, visit the website of the National Travel Health Network and Centre website. You should take steps to avoid being bitten by mosquitoes.
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Cuba, attacks can’t be ruled out. See Terrorism
Most visits to Cuba are trouble free.
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.
