Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Jamaica on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
Pre-departure requirements:
You must have proof of a negative COVID-19 test to travel to England from abroad. You must take the test in the 3 days before the service on which you will arrive in England departs. For example, if you travel directly to England on Friday, you must take the test on the Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday. Test providers can be found on the “Visit Jamaica” website.
The travel ban on flights coming in country from the UK has expired. British Airways and Virgin Atlantic have resumed flights in both directions. To book you should contact BA on +44 (0) 203 250 0145 and Virgin on +1 800 744 7477.
Airlines’ plans may be subject to change.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Jamaica.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements. You should contact local authorities for information on testing facilities.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you will need to self-isolate until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment in Jamaica.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Jamaica
Anyone with colds, coughs and flu symptoms is required to stay at home. All persons over the age of 60 and over must self-isolate at home, except for those who are fully vaccinated against COVID-19.
Accommodation
Hotels and private rentals are open in Jamaica, subject to the Government of Jamaica guidance above. Travellers are advised to confirm arrangements before travelling.
Public places and services
There are a range of local measures to limit the spread of the virus and the Jamaican authorities will seek to prosecute people who breach COVID-19 protocols, including those who break quarantine protocols, which may result in a fine and/or prison sentence.
There is an island-wide curfew with extended hours at weekends. The curfew hours are:
7pm to 5am Monday to Friday
6pm on Saturdays to 5am on Sunday
2pm on Sundays to 5am on Mondays
weddings are allowed with no more than 50 persons in attendance
small events (e.g. concerts, parties, festivals and community events) are not allowed
Gatherings, including worship services, gyms, restaurants, bars etc are allowed 50% capacity of the square footage
it is mandatory to wear masks in public and maintain a minimum personal distance of six feet
people aged 60 and over are confined to home, except for those who are fully vaccinated who are exempt
church services are permitted with a limit of 50 people
wedding ceremonies can be performed with an attendance limit of 15 people
funeral services are permitted with a limit of 30 people in attendance. 30 minute burials are only permitted between Monday to Friday, 9am to 5pm, with no more than 30 people in attendance
the main business district, the Corporate Area of Kingston, will be restricted for the purposes of essential activity and residents should only venture out for such purposes
amusement arcades are closed
Public beaches are closed. Other beaches and river facilities will be allowed to open from 6am to 4pm Monday to Saturday and 6am to 1pm on Sundays and public holidays. Beach parties are not permitted
concerts, parties and boat parties are banned
nightclubs and amusements will be closed
Healthcare in Jamaica
If you think you have COVID-19 symptoms, you should contact the Jamaican Ministry of Health on +1-888-ONE-LOVE (663-5683) or on the other numbers available.
Isolation facilities are operational at all public hospitals, with a specialist facility available at the National Chest Hospital. Quarantine facilities will be provided by the Government of Jamaica. For additional information check the Jamaican Ministry of Health website.
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Jamaica.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Jamaica
Wherever possible British nationals should aim to be vaccinated in the country where they live. We will update this page when the Government of Jamaica announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Jamaican national vaccination programme started in April 2021 and is predominantly using the AstraZeneca vaccine, although other vaccines may be available in limited supply. The Jamaican authorities have confirmed that they have and will continue, to offer vaccines to foreign residents who fall into the eligible categories, as and when these are applied to Jamaican citizens. Further information on the vaccination programme is available on the Government of Jamaica’s Ministry of Health and Wellness website.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in Jamaica, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
For further information visit the Jamaican Ministry of Health website.
