This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Jamaica set and enforce entry rules. For further information contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to. You should also consider checking with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Restrictions in response to coronavirus
Entry to Jamaica
The following measures apply to travellers to Jamaica:
Prior to checking in for a flight to Jamaica, you must get authorisation to enter from the Visit Jamaica website
All travellers from 12 years and upwards arriving in Jamaica must present a certificate issued by a UKAS accredited laboratory showing a negative COVID-19 molecular (PCR, NAA, RNA) or Antigen test result, with the test taken within the 72 hours prior to the date of travel
All fully vaccinated travellers whose pre-travel test result is negative and from a PCR test are exempted from self-isolation or post-travel testing on arrival
Business travellers must submit a negative COVID-19 test and be subject to testing on arrival (which they will need to pay for)
All travellers arriving in Jamaica may be screened for COVID 19 symptoms at the airport
Testing and Screening on arrival
All travellers arriving in Jamaica may be tested for COVID-19 if assessed as high-risk as a result of exhibiting symptoms, exposure to persons who have tested positive, belonging to a high-risk group or other risk factors. Travellers may be screened for symptoms at the airport.
Quarantine requirements
All fully vaccinated travellers to Jamaica with a negative result from a pre-travel PCR test are exempt from quarantine and will not normally be required to take any further tests on arrival. You should ensure that you have evidence of a pre-travel negative PCR test result and full vaccination status to avoid quarantine.
All other travellers arriving in Jamaica will be subject to the following quarantine requirements:
Category 1: Residents - Jamaican nationals and non-nationals (including British Citizens) ordinarily resident in Jamaica
Jamaican nationals and non-nationals ordinarily resident in Jamaica may be subject to testing on arrival if assessed as high-risk
if you are not fully vaccinated, or arrive with a pre-travel antigen test, you will be required to remain in quarantine at home for 14 days from your date of entry to Jamaica. If you are fully vaccinated this is reduced to 8 days. If fully vaccinated, and take a PCR test on arrival at your own expense, you can be released from quarantine on receipt of a negative result
if the test is positive, you will be isolated either at home or in a government facility as determined by the health authorities
Category 2: Non-residents visiting Jamaica for tourism purposes and staying at approved “resilient corridor” accommodation
The pre-testing requirement described above is applicable to persons in this category if they are residents of locations designated as high risk by the Jamaican health authorities.
Based on health screening and risk assessment on arrival, you may still be required to be tested at the airport or designated facility. In this case, you would await your test result in your hotel room.
If the test is negative, you will remain at your hotel/resort within the “resilient corridor” and restricted to property under the “Stay in Resilient Corridor” measure with only permitted excursions
If the test is positive, you will be isolated either at the hotel/resort or in a government facility as determined by the health authorities.
Details of ‘resilient corridor’ accommodation can be found on the Visit Jamaica website.
Category 3: Non-residents visiting Jamaica for business purposes
This traveller category does NOT include other non-residents or residents travelling to attend funerals, weddings, other family gatherings or conduct personal interest activities.
Business travellers who are either unvaccinated or took an antigen test before travel will be tested on arrival at the airport in Jamaica. They will await their test results under a “Quarantine for Business Traveller” measure at their hotel/intended address. If the test is negative, they will be released from quarantine and be under a “Stay at Intended Address for Business Travellers” measure for a period of 14 days from their date of entry to Jamaica or for the duration of their stay if shorter than 14 days. If the test is positive, they will be isolated either at their hotel/intended address or in a government facility as determined by the health authorities.
Category 4: Non-residents visiting Jamaica for other purposes including tourists not staying within the “resilient corridor”
The pre-testing requirement described above is applicable to persons in this category if they are residents of locations designated as high risk by the Jamaican health authorities. Persons may be required to be tested at the airport or other designated facility, if assessed by the health authorities as high-risk. They will then await their test results under quarantine at their hotel/intended address.
if you are not fully vaccinated, or arrive with a pre-travel antigen negative test result, you will be required to remain in quarantine at home for 14 days from your date of entry to Jamaica. If you are fully vaccinated this is reduced to 8 days. If fully vaccinated and you take a PCR test on arrival at your own expense, you can be released from quarantine on receipt of a negative result.
If the test is positive, you will be isolated either at home or in a government facility as determined by the health authorities.
Regular entry requirements
Visas
British nationals don’t need a visa to visit Jamaica. Visitors are usually granted entry for a maximum of 90 days.
The date by which you must leave Jamaica will be stamped in your passport. If you wish to extend your stay beyond this date you will need to apply to the Jamaican Passport, Immigration and Citizenship Agency. Overstaying without the proper authority can result in detention and/or a fine.
For further information about entry requirements, see the website of the Jamaican High Commission.
Passport validity
Your passport should be valid for the proposed duration of your stay; you don’t need any additional period of validity on your passport beyond this.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are accepted for entry to and exit from Jamaica. If your passport has been stolen you do not need to obtain a police report unless it is for insurance purposes. If you’re travelling via the USA using an ETD, you’ll need to get a US visa as ETDs are not valid for entry into the United States under the Visa Waiver Programme (VWP).
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
Arrival and departure taxes
Arrival and departure taxes are usually included in the cost of your ticket, but this isn’t always the case for charter flights. Departure tax is US $35 for air passengers. Check with your carrier if you’re unsure whether the tax has been included in your ticket. Landing fees for cruise ship passengers are usually included in the cost of the cruise.
Customs regulations
You can bring local currency (Jamaican dollars) into the country. However, you must declare on your customs form all currencies and monetary instruments over the value of US$10,000.
Personal imports of meat and dairy products from the UK are banned. Customs officials may search baggage and will destroy banned foodstuffs.
