At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Coronavirus
There is an ongoing outbreak of coronavirus (COVID-19) in China, some other countries in the region and elsewhere.
The Jamaican Ministry of Health has advised that visitors from China who have left China within the last 14 days, and who do not have long-stay arrangements in Jamaica, will not be granted landing privileges at any of the island’s ports of entry. All maritime vessels originating from China will be subject to the same restrictions. Travellers with permanent and/or temporary residency will be permitted to land. However, all individuals will be subject to immediate quarantine for a minimum of 14 days, depending on the time they left China. Individuals returning from China who have been granted landing privileges and who show any symptoms of the novel coronavirus will be put in immediate isolation.
Travellers who have visited Italy, South Korea, Iran and Singapore in the last 14 days and who do not have permanent residency or marriage exemption in Jamaica will not be granted landing privileges at any of the country’s ports of entry. Travellers who have permanent residence and marriage exemptions who have visited Italy, South Korea, Iran, and Singapore in the last 14 days will be subject to a health assessment and quarantine. All travellers returning from Italy, South Korea, Iran and Singapore who have been granted landing privileges and who display any symptom of COVID-19, as per the case definition published by the Pan American Health Organization/World Health Organization, will be placed in immediate isolation at a health facility.
Isolation facilities are operational at all public hospitals, with a specialist facility available at the National Chest Hospital. Quarantine facilities will be provided by the Government of Jamaica. For additional information, check the Jamaican Ministry of Health website.
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
Health risks
Mosquito-borne diseases, such as Zika, Dengue fever and Chikungunya have been confirmed in Jamaica. You should take steps to avoid being bitten by mosquitoes.
UK health authorities have classified Jamaica as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For more information and advice, visit the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
There has been a significant increase in the number of confirmed cases of Dengue fever in Jamaica during the first half of 2016. Dengue fever is endemic to Latin America and the Caribbean and can occur throughout the year.
For more details about the Chikungunya virus outbreak, see the website of the National Health Network and Centre.
The 2013 UNAIDS Report on the global AIDS epidemic estimates that around 28,000 adults aged 15 or over in Jamaica were living with HIV; the prevalence percentage was estimated at around 1.7% of the adult population compared to the prevalence percentage in adults in the UK of around 0.2%. You should exercise normal precautions to avoid exposure to HIV/AIDS.
Medical treatment
The standard of medical facilities, both private and government operated, can vary throughout Jamaica and may not meet UK standards; getting access to medication can be challenging.
Medical treatment can be expensive with doctors and hospitals often expecting immediate cash payment for health services. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 110 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
