There are currently extremely limited commercial options available to return to the UK from Jamaica.
UK special flight
A special flight will depart from Kingston Norman Manley International Airport on 3 June to London Heathrow. This flight is now fully booked.
The UK government has organised another flight with TUI on Monday 8 June. This is likely to be the final such special flight.
This flight will operate from Jamaica and be for British tourists, short-term visitors and their direct dependants.
These flights are for British nationals, normally resident in the UK and dependants travelling with a British national. Vulnerable non-British UK residents with Indefinite Leave to Remain who have been outside the UK for no more than 12 months may be accommodated if there is sufficient capacity. Eligibility, including your UK address, will be checked before tickets are issued. Vulnerable British nationals will be prioritised.
Passengers who tried to book on the 3 June flight and were not offered a seat will be considered for a seat on the flight on 8 June. These passengers will receive an email to inform them of the new flight date and give them the option to cancel and claim a refund.
The 8 June flight will depart from Kingston Norman Manley International Airport at 16.30. It will land at London Heathrow Airport at 08.00 on 9 June.
The cost of the flight is £537 per person.
Passengers must be in possession of correct and valid documentation which allows entry to the UK. This will be checked before you board.
Your eligibility will be checked before your tickets are issued.
How to book
CTM is working on behalf of the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) to manage special flight bookings.
If you wish to travel, book on the CTM website as soon as possible.
To book flights on the CTM website, you will need:
a valid passport and be able to meet the entry requirements of the UK
contact details for each traveller you are registering
your UK home address and postcode
your means of payment, such as credit or debit card details
Completing the booking process does not guarantee you a seat on a flight. Tickets will not be on sale at the airport. Do not travel to the airport without a confirmed ticket.
What to do after making your booking
When your flight details are confirmed, you will be sent an itinerary at least 24 hours prior to the flight departure. This will include additional check in information.
You will need to organise your own travel to the airport.
Passengers travelling must arrive at the airport by 12.30 on Monday 8 June.
Passengers on this flight will be required to follow new Home Office rules for people entering the UK, and self-isolate for 14 days.
Financial support for a flight
If you are a British Citizen and have exhausted all other options available to you for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government to cover the cost of the ticket.
You would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK.
Our partner CTM is authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO and details will be available when you are asked to pay.
Travel to the airport
You will need to make your own travel arrangements to get to Kingston, Norman Manley International airport. Please do not go to the airport if you do not have a confirmed seat.
Your journey home
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
If you’re returning to the UK before 8 June, follow the current guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others. From 8 June there will be new rules for entering the UK. If your flight arrives on or after 8 June, you will need to follow the latest government guidance.
Future travel options
The Government of Jamaica has announced that borders will be open to international travellers from 15 June. This will offer the opportunity to airlines to resume scheduled operations from that date if they choose to do so. British High Commission is in contact with airlines, the Jamaican authorities and other governments to make sure information on commercial options for returning to the UK is available as soon as possible.
You may be able to make indirect travel arrangements via the USA or Canada if possible but you may have to wait before a flight becomes available. You should refer to those countries’ restrictions before travelling to ensure that you will be allowed to enter the country for onward connection.
Currently no airlines are regularly scheduled to fly to the USA or Canada in May. JetBlue is operating flights at short notice from Kingston and Montego Bay to Fort Lauderdale, Florida from time to time. Miami International Airport is 30 minutes away by bus and flights to the United Kingdom are operating. You will need an ESTA or a valid US visa.
This travel advice will be updated when further departure options become available. Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British High Commission on Twitter and Facebook.
Help and support
If you are a tourist in Jamaica and need information and help, you can email the British High Commission at kingston.consular@fco.gov.uk.
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British High Commission on +1 876 936 0700.
The British High Commission cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone. This page will be updated when departure options become available. To get the latest information, sign up for travel advice email alerts.
If you cannot leave Jamaica
If you cannot leave Jamaica at this time, see advice on staying in Jamaica during coronavirus.
