

Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. You should remain vigilant at all times.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Jamaica
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Jamaica, attacks cannot be ruled out.
Political situation   
Zones of Special Operations
The government can put enhanced security measures in place in response to outbursts of violence and shootings, such as a State of Emergency (SOE) or Zone of Special Operations (ZOSOs). A SOE or ZOSO will have specific boundaries and will temporarily give the police and military additional powers. These can include imposing curfews, cordons, searching of persons, vehicles, and places. Curfews can be imposed with little notice and are usually a short-term measure. Tourists and visitors are not usually affected by SOE or ZOZOs. Check locally whether any security measures or curfews apply and follow the advice of the local authorities.
Crowds and demonstrations
Protests and demonstrations occur across Jamaica and can cause significant disruption to traffic and public transportation. Any event with large crowds has the potential to turn violent, including large celebratory gatherings. They can also be used by criminals as cover for robbery and theft. Stay away from areas where protests, demonstrations or marches are taking place. Monitor local and social media updates.
Crime
Crime and homicide rates are high in Jamaica. Gang violence and shootings mostly occur in inner city areas. Tourist areas are not usually affected by gang-related crime and violence.
Be cautious particularly when travelling in and around:
Kingston
Spanish Town
Savanna-la-Mar
parts of Montego Bay including Flankers, Barrett Town, Glendevon, Rose Heights and Mount Salem
Protecting yourself and your belongings
The motive for most attacks on tourists is robbery. Take extra care in more run-down areas and those less visited by tourists.
 Be aware of your surroundings and:
do not walk in isolated areas or deserted beaches, even during the day
travel with others or go on a tour with a reputable company when possible
be careful when withdrawing money from ATMs. Do not withdraw a lot of money at one time or use ATMs in badly lit areas. It is generally safer to use ATMs during daylight hours
avoid using buses at night
do not display valuables or leave them in your car
consider removing expensive jewellery
stay alert and be wary of people who approach you
avoid walking at night 
be aware that resisting a robbery could lead to a violent response, including the use of weapons, that could result in physical injury
Most hotels and resorts are well guarded, but burglaries can occur. Follow hotel security instructions, use hotel safes for your valuables, including your passport, and lock windows and doors. In residential accommodation ensure that proper locks and window grilles are fitted.
Rape and sexual assault  
There have been incidents where tourists and visitors have been targets for rape and sexual assault. Take care when using dating apps in Jamaica, especially those used by the LGBT+ community. Criminals have used apps to lure victims to meet in a public place but later assault and rob them.
Read more advice for women travelling abroad.
Laws and cultural differences
Illegal drugs and prison sentences
It’s illegal to smoke marijuana (ganja) in Jamaica. There are penalties for all drug offences including those involving marijuana. For possession of amounts of up to 2 ounces you will get a fine of 500 Jamaican dollars, to be paid within 30 days. Severe penalties apply for all other drug related offences, including attempting to export narcotics.
All prison sentences are served in full in Jamaica. Prison conditions are harsh. Always pack your own luggage and do not carry anything through customs for someone else.
LGBT+ travellers
Male same-sex sexual activity is illegal, but the law is not always strictly enforced. The attitude of many Jamaicans towards same-sex relationships is hostile. Be mindful of local attitudes and be aware that showing affection in public may receive unwanted attention.
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Transport risks
Travel to and from Norman Manley International Airport
There’s been sporadic violence in recent years in the Mountain View area – one of 2 routes between Kingston and Norman Manley International Airport. Most people take the Humming Bird route via South Camp Road to reduce the risk of being robbed on route.
British nationals have been tracked and robbed when travelling from the airport to their private accommodation. Be cautious when driving and getting out of the car.
Road travel    
If you are planning to drive, see information on driving abroad.
You can use a UK photocard driving licence to drive in Jamaica. If you still have a paper driving licence, you need to update it to a photocard licence. Your UK driving licence can be used to drive in Jamaica for up to 6 months.
If you are unfamiliar with Kingston, do not drive in the city. If you get lost, you and your passengers may be at risk.
Drink-driving is a serious offence in Jamaica. If convicted, you may get a fine and possible imprisonment.
Road conditions and driving standards
Many roads are badly maintained with poor signage. In some locations a 4-wheel-drive vehicle is recommended. Road accidents and fatalities are common. Roads in rural areas are often narrow and winding and poorly lit at night. Weather conditions can exacerbate poor driving conditions.
Driving standards vary. Lane discipline is poor.  Speeding and drink-driving is common. Many drivers do not have car insurance.
Drivers and front-seat passengers must wear a seatbelt at all times. However, hire cars and minibuses do not always have rear seatbelts.
Motorbike riders must wear a helmet.
Taxi safety
Use Jamaican Tourist Board (JTB) approved taxis and minibuses for excursions, airport transfers and sightseeing. Most hotels and resorts have assigned JTB drivers who carry photo ID and display a blue JTB sticker on the front windscreen. Taxi-hailing apps such as Uber are now available in some areas of the island (including Kingston).
Extreme weather and natural disasters   
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards.
Hurricanes
Hurricane season is normally from June to November. We are seeing more uncharacteristic weather in Jamaica and the region is increasingly vulnerable to climate change impacts.
Hurricanes can cause fallen trees, damaged or blocked roads and flooding. Check your route in advance. Exercise caution in areas close to swamps, rivers, gullies and mangroves.
Monitor local news and check World Meteorological Association weather reports for Jamaica.
See Extreme weather and natural hazards for advice about how to prepare effectively and what to do if you’re likely to be affected by a hurricane.
Earthquakes
The US Federal Emergency Management Agency website has advice about what to do before, during and after an earthquake.
