This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Jamaica as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Jamaica to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Jamaica
For information on entering Jamaica, see Entry Requirements
There are a range of local measures to limit the spread of the virus:
overnight curfews are in place
gatherings of more than 10 people in any one place are not permitted
it is mandatory to wear masks in public and maintain a minimum personal distance of 6 feet
Anyone with colds, coughs and flu symptoms is required to stay at home. All persons over the age of 70 must self-isolate at home.
Health
Isolation facilities are operational at all public hospitals, with a specialist facility available at the National Chest Hospital. Quarantine facilities will be provided by the Government of Jamaica. For additional information check the Jamaican Ministry of Health website.
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Jamaica.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Jamaica, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
