The FCDO advises against all but essential travel to:
the whole of Jamaica based on the current assessment of COVID-19 risks.
If you are returning to the UK from Jamaica, you will need to self-isolate on your return (unless you are exempt). Check the latest guidance for England, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales.
Travel is subject to entry restrictions
Prior to checking in for a flight to Jamaica, you must get authorisation to enter from the Visit Jamaica website
There is a ban on all flights arriving in Jamaica from the UK until Sunday 28 February 2021. Additionally, all non-Jamaicans who have been in the UK within the last 14 days prior to intended arrival date in Jamaica, who may seek to enter the island through another country will not be permitted to enter Jamaica.
All travellers arriving in Jamaica will be screened for Covid 19 symptoms at the airport and travellers from the USA, Brazil, Dominican Republic, Mexico and Panama require appropriate evidence of a Covid 19 negative test.
See Entry requirements for more information before you plan to travel.
Preparing for your return journey to the UK
If you’re returning to the UK from overseas, you will need to:
provide your journey and contact details before you travel
check if you need to self-isolate on your return
If your return journey to the UK transits another country, you should check whether it is subject to a travel ban or any other additional requirements. If so, contact your travel provider.
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
If you’re planning travel to Jamaica, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCDO’s guidance on foreign travel insurance.
For information about COVID-19 vaccines, see the Coronavirus page.
Over 225,000 British nationals visited Jamaica in 2019. Most visits are trouble-free.
There are high levels of crime and violence, particularly in the capital Kingston. See Crime
There are currently Zones of Special Operations (ZOSOs) in place in a number of areas. These measures allow the military to support the police in joint security operations in response to recent violence and shooting incidents. See Security operations
The hurricane season in Jamaica normally runs from June to November. See Natural disasters
Public order incidents and demonstrations can occur across Jamaica, and may cause significant disruption to traffic and public transportation. You should avoid all demonstrations; they have the potential to turn violent and are often used by criminals as cover for robbery and theft. See Demonstrations
UK health authorities have classified Jamaica as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For more information and advice, visit the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Jamaica, attacks can’t be ruled out. See Terrorism
You can contact the emergency services by calling 119 for police, ambulance and fire.
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.
The Overseas Business Risk service offers information and advice for British companies operating overseas on how to manage political, economic, and business security-related risks.
