Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Liberia on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
Roberts International Airport (RIA) is open for commercial flights, however flights to and from Liberia remain limited. There are no direct flights between the UK and Liberia.
If you’re travelling to the UK, you should check the availability of onward flights from transit countries on your route. Schedules may be reduced and can change at very short notice. For the latest information on your planned route, you should check with airlines and your travel company.
If you’re transiting another country between Liberia and the UK, you should check travel advice of the countries on your route for the latest entry requirements. Your airline may refuse to allow you to board in Liberia if you do not meet all requirements. The Belgian Government currently lists Liberia as a “red” country for coronavirus risk. There may be additional requirements for transiting through Brussels to return to the UK. You should check travel advice before travelling. From 11:59 pm on 21 June, the United Arab Emirates (UAE) will not permit entry to travellers from Liberia. This includes transit passengers (except for upcoming transit flights to Liberia). You should check travel advice before travelling.
Some regional airlines are operating with reduced flight schedules.
Currently all land borders (with Sierra Leone, Guinea and Côte d’Ivoire) are closed to travellers. Ports remain open.
Coronavirus testing for departing travellers
Before departure from Liberia, you will need a negative COVID-19 PCR test result, and a travel certificate issued by Liberia’s National Public Health Reference Laboratory. For exemptions, see Exemptions to PCR testing on departure section below.
You must present a negative COVID-19 PCR test result, from a test conducted by Liberia’s National Public Health Reference Laboratory within 72 hours of departure. Some airlines may require a shorter testing period. You should check with your airline before travelling
COVID-19 testing for travellers is available at the Union Center, located on Sophia Road in Congo Town, Monrovia from 9am to 4pm 7 days per week. Individuals have reported wait-times of up to 5 hours during busy periods. An appointment system is not available
Tests are US$50 for travel within the ECOWAS region or US$75 for travel outside the ECOWAS region. Individuals have reported significant delays to receiving results due to laboratory backlogs
Sample processing could take several days. It is recommended you submit your sample as soon as possible within 72 hours of your departure to allow the greatest time for processing as results can take over 48 hours
The National Public Health Institute of Liberia (NPHIL) encourages all travellers to register at http://liberiacovidtravel.org before arrival at the Union Center. This website does not employ SSL technology and is not a secure website. To register, select “Request a Travel Certificate” and submit the required information. You will be asked to provide personal information (name, gender, date of birth, nationality, address in Liberia, county of residence (in Liberia), passport details, phone number(s) and email address) and travel details (destination, departure date, flight number). When you complete your registration you will receive a unique identification number to retrieve your test results
You must pay the test fee before submitting your sample. There are two payment options available. If you have completed registration on the website, you can click “Proceed to Payment” to be redirected to a secure payment site which employs SSL technology. Alternatively, you can pay at the United Bank for Africa (UBA) window at the Union Center (in US dollars cash or by card)
To check your PCR test results online, visit www.liberiacovidresult.org 1 to 3 days after sample collected you must enter your unique identification number (provided when your sample was collected), and your year of birth. The National Reference Lab is experiencing capacity constraints and your result may be delayed beyond the 72 hours target.
If your test result is negative, you can apply for a travel certificate online by visiting http://liberiacovidtravel.org and clicking on “Print Travel Certificate”. You should print your certificate
If your test result is positive, the Ministry of Health or the National Public Health Institute of Liberia (NPHIL) will contact you and you will not be permitted to travel. You will be subject to Liberia’s case management guidelines. This means NPHIL will consider your care on a case-by-case basis and you may be taken to a government COVID-19 Treatment Unit. Private health care facilities are not currently permitted to treat COVID-19 patients. Authorities usually aim to keep families with minors together. If you are travelling with minors, this could mean all family members being transferred to a government COVID-19 Treatment Unit or “Precautionary Observation Center” (POC), i.e. quarantine, even if only one person has tested positive. Home-based care is considered on a case-by-case basis. If you test positive, your hotel may ask you to leave your accommodation. The Liberian authorities will not provide financial assistance or support with alternative accommodation for any travellers required to leave their hotel as a result of a positive COVID-19 test result. Liberian “Precautionary Observation Centers” (POCs) and treatment units are basic, and not guaranteed to meet Public Health England standards. For more information see Quarantine requirements.
Exemptions to PCR testing on departure:
Children under the age of 5 years old are exempt from COVID-19 testing and do not require a test result certificate. However, if your airline or the country you are travelling to requires testing of children under 5 years, the testing fees will apply as above
Diplomats and their families, honorary consuls, duly accredited international organisations’ staff and Liberian diplomats are exempt from testing on departure. However, voluntary testing at the Union Center is available free of charge
Cabin crew, captains, flight engineers and first officers with layovers less than 48 hours (subject to airline policy)
Short-term travellers (visits up to 3 days) are exempt from pre-departure testing if the negative PCR test result presented on arrival remains valid (i.e. the sample was taken a maximum of 72 hours before you will depart from Liberia – this is unlikely to apply unless you are leaving on the same day or had a short journey to Liberia). To be eligible for this exemption, on arrival in Liberia you must present evidence of your short stay (e.g. airplane ticket or confirmed flight itinerary) and provide contact details in Liberia (phone number, email, name of hotel or other accommodation)
Although Government of Liberia does not require exempt travellers to do testing on departure, airlines may require proof of negative test result to allow boarding, regardless of exemption status
Testing protocols could change at short notice. You should monitor this travel advice for updates, contact your airline before travel, and consult government sources for announcements (see Further information).
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do before travelling and when you arrive in Liberia.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK. The Government of Liberia requires most travellers leaving Liberia to submit a negative PCR test result. See Coronavirus testing for departing travellers above.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Liberia
In response to rising COVID-19 cases, revised COVID-19 National Health Guidelines have been published by the Government of Liberia on the Ministry of Health website. Measures in place to minimise the spread of COVID-19 apply in all 15 counties. These measures will remain in place until announced otherwise. Violation of health measures is punishable by a fine of up to US$200 and/or imprisonment of up to 30 days. Measures could be changed at short notice. Authorities may impose a lockdown or curfew if COVID-19 cases continue to rise. You should monitor government communications for announcements (see Further information).
If you go out in public, you must wear a face mask which covers your nose and mouth. You must also wear a mask when using public transport. Limits on passenger numbers apply: taxis must not carry more than 3 passengers in the back and 1 in the front; “keh-kehs” (tricycle taxis) must not carry more than 2 passengers in the back and none in the front. Motorbikes may only carry one passenger.
You must maintain social distancing of a minimum of 1 metre (3 feet) from others in public places and businesses (except in public transport). Mandatory hand washing with soap and clean water, or alcohol-based sanitiser is required at all premises.
Liberian authorities have advised community members to report those showing coronavirus symptoms (coughing, fever, and difficulty breathing) by calling 4455.
Accommodation
You must ensure you have made arrangements for accommodation before travelling to Liberia. Some hotels are open but you should check and book in advance. Health measures including hand washing, wearing a mask and social distancing of 1 metre (3 feet), apply in all hotels.
Public places and services
Businesses such as banks, supermarkets, restaurants and salons are open. Health measures including handwashing, wearing a mask and social distancing of 1 metre (3 feet) apply. Some businesses have limits on the number of customers permitted to enter at one time. Only 20 customers are permitted inside bank service areas, supermarkets and large stores. Prevention measures must be followed inside and while queuing to enter. Some offices and businesses may also require temperature checks before entry. Nightclubs, bars, beaches, cinemas, entertainment centres, including hotel restaurants and guest houses, must close by 11pm.
You are required to wear face masks in all commercial premises, public places and government buildings. Places of worship are permitted to hold services. Education facilities, healthcare facilities and pharmacies remain open with health measures in place.
Indoor gatherings of up to 20 people are permitted as long as preventative measures can be maintained (masks, social distancing, hand-sanitiser/washing). Sporting venues are allowed to host at no more than fifty percent capacity.
Offices (public and private) and businesses must reduce staff by 20% with other staff working at home.
Dead bodies confirmed as COVID-positive may not be transported into or out of Liberia.
Healthcare in Liberia
Due to a significant increase in serious COVID-19 cases, Liberian healthcare facilities are experiencing severe capacity constraints, including lack of oxygen and critical care beds. You should consider the significant health risks before travelling to Liberia. For further information, see Health.
Patients who test positive for coronavirus will be subject to Liberia’s case management guidelines. This means the National Public Health Institute of Liberia (NPHIL) will consider on a case-by-case basis and you may be taken to a government COVID-19 Treatment Unit or quarantine facility. See Quarantine requirements. Home-based care is considered on a case-by-case basis. Private medical facilities are currently not permitted to test for or treat coronavirus. If you test positive, you must answer phone calls from the health authorities. If you think you have COVID-19 symptoms, you should call the COVID-19 hotline on 4455.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Liberia.
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 Vaccines if you live in Liberia
Wherever possible British nationals should aim to be vaccinated in the country where they live. As further information is available about the national vaccination programme, this page will be updated. Sign up to get email notifications.
The Liberian national vaccination programme started in April 2021. British nationals aged 18 or over resident in Liberia are eligible for vaccination. The first phase of the programme, providing first doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine is complete. Second doses of AstraZeneca vaccine commenced in August. The second phase of the national programme, using the Janssen (Johnson & Johnson) single-dose vaccine commenced in Montserrado County on 5 August 2021. You cannot take a Johnson & Johnson vaccine if you have already received a first dose of AstraZeneca vaccine.
Johnson & Johnson vaccine will be provided at the locations below. Vaccination sites could change at short notice. You should monitor the Ministry of Health website for updated information.
Temporary sites: Paynesville Town Hall, Monrovia City Town Hall, Barnersville Town Hall, Garnersville Town Hall, General Services Agency, Farmington Hotel, APM Terminals
Marketplaces: Waterside, Red Light, Goba Chop,Jacob’s Town, Redemption Day/Gardnersville, Jukpan Town, ELWA, Duala, Kuwait, Clara Town, Old Road, Poultry Market, VOA, Duport Road, Rehab, Rally Town, Roto Town, Pepperwood Town, Barnersville, 72nd Market
Health facilities in Somalia Drive district: R. H. Ferguson, Bardnersville, Chocolate City, Hope for Women, JDJ Hospital, New Georgia, Iron Factory, Jamale
Health facilities in Central Monrovia district: St. Joseph Catholic Hospital, SOS Clinic, UN Clinic, Mercy International, PUCC, Joanna Clinic, Peace Clinic, Soniwein Clinic, JFK Hospital, Darlington Clinic
Health facilities in Todee district: Zannah Town Clinic, Koon Town Clinic
Health facilities in Bushrod district: Star of the Sea, Slipway Clinic, Redemption Hospital, Cynthia Nelson Clinic, Clara Town Health Center, Anthony Clinic
Health facilities in Commonwealth district: Benson Hospital, ELWA Hospital, J&J Health Center, Pipeline Health Center, Omega Market Clinic, 14 Military Hospital
Health facilities in Careysburg district: Bensonville Hospital, Careysburg Community Clinic
Health facilities in St. Paul District: RCD Marshall Clinic, Home of Dignity Health Clnic, Kpalla Clinic, Bromely Health Center.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in Liberia, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
The Government of Liberia usually posts announcements on the following Facebook pages:
Ministry of Information, Culture & Tourism (MICAT)
Executive Mansion – Liberia
National Public Health Institute of Liberia (NPHIL)
Ministry of Health
Information may also be available on the following websites:
Ministry of Health
National Public Health Institute of Liberia (NPHIL)
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
