The information on this page covers the most common types of travel and reflects the UK government’s understanding of the rules currently in place. Unless otherwise stated, this information is for travellers using a full ‘British Citizen’ passport.
The authorities in the country or territory you’re travelling to are responsible for setting and enforcing the rules for entry. If you’re unclear about any aspect of the entry requirements, or you need further reassurance, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
You should also consider checking with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Entry rules in response to coronavirus (COVID-19)
Entry to Liberia
Passengers who have travelled from India, Pakistan or Bangladesh in the previous 14 days are banned from entering Liberia.
Roberts International Airport (RIA) is open for commercial flights. There are no direct flights from the UK. Air France, Brussels Airlines and Royal Air Maroc usually offer a connecting service via Paris, Brussels or Casablanca. However, services between the UK and Casablanca are not operating currently. Flight availability could change at very short notice. Some regional airlines are operating with reduced flight schedules. If you wish to travel, you should contact your airline or travel agent for confirmation of flight schedules. You must wear a mask during transit and on arrival in Liberia. In Roberts International Airport, you must stand in marked spaces within the terminal to allow for social distancing.
Before travelling to Liberia, you must have a negative COVID-19 PCR test result from an accredited lab, regardless of COVID-19 vaccination status. Your test must be conducted a maximum of 96 hours before arrival in Liberia.
Before arrival, in Liberia, you must download the Lib Travel mobile app from Android Play or the Apple Store. If you have problems with the app, staff at Roberts International Airport can assist you.
Android app
Apple Store
You must complete a Health Screening Arrival Form before arrival, for monitoring and contact tracing. You must provide your passport details, contact details in Liberia, next of kin details, your travel details (including flight details, with seat number and any transit locations), any countries visited in the previous 14 days, and you must complete the symptom checker. You must select a payment option for your COVID-19 test (payment via app or payment on arrival). Some travellers have reported problems with online payment. You should ensure you carry sufficient cash (US dollars) for payment on arrival. If double-charged you can present proof of online payment and seek a refund. Each adult traveller must download the app and register individually. You can register children via a parent’s app. When you arrive in Liberia, you must be able to show proof that you have completed the symptom tracker form. If you experience problems using the app, staff will assist you at the airport on arrival.
Currently all land borders (with Sierra Leone, Guinea and Côte d’Ivoire) are closed to travellers. Ports remain open.
Testing / screening on arrival
All non-exempt travellers arriving in Liberia will be screened for the coronavirus. For exemptions, see Exemptions to PCR testing on arrival below. Different rules apply for travellers who have been in Nepal or Brazil in the previous 14 days; travellers on short-term missions; and humanitarian workers, see separate guidance below.
On arrival at entry points, staff will check your temperature and you must wash your hands with soap and water. You must show your symptom checking screening form (mobile app) to public health staff. You must also show your flight itinerary.
If you display symptoms of coronavirus, public health officials may take you to a government quarantine or medical facility. See Quarantine requirements.
Passengers entering Liberia will be tested for COVID-19 by the National Public Health Reference Laboratory team (unless exempt from testing). Sample collection involves taking a swab of the inside of your nose and the back of your throat, using a long cotton bud, for PCR testing. Sample processing could take several days. You will receive a unique identification number to retrieve your test results online.
You must present proof of payment for your PCR test before your sample is collected. Travellers arriving from ECOWAS countries must pay US$50. Travellers from countries outside the ECOWAS region must pay US$75. There are two payment options available. You can pay in advance via the Lib Travel mobile app, or alternatively, you can pay at the United Bank for Africa (UBA) banking window (in US dollars cash or by card) on arrival.
To check your PCR test results online, visit the Self Check Portal 2 to 3 days after your sample was collected. You must enter your unique identification number (provided when your sample was collected), and your year of birth. The National Reference Lab is experiencing capacity constraints and your result may be delayed beyond the 72 hours target.
Government of Liberia strongly recommends that all travellers self-isolate for 7 days and self-monitor symptoms via the Lib Travel app for 14 days, beginning the day after arrival in Liberia.
If your PCR test is positive, you will be subject to Liberia’s case management guidelines. This means the National Public Health Institute of Liberia (NPHIL) will consider your care on a case-by-case basis and you may be taken to a government COVID-19 Treatment Unit. Private health care facilities are not currently permitted to treat COVID-19 patients. Home-based care is considered on a case-by-case basis.
For information on testing for travellers departing Liberia, see International Travel.
Travellers from India, Pakistan or Bangladesh
Passengers who have travelled from India, Pakistan or Bangladesh in the previous 14 days are banned from entering Liberia.
Travellers from Nepal or Brazil
If you have been in Nepal or Brazil in the previous 14 days there are additional entry requirements (managed quarantine). You must complete the general traveller processes above (provide negative PCR test result, complete a Health Screening Arrival Form before arrival, provide your travel itinerary and submit a sample for PCR testing on arrival). You must also book your managed quarantine package before arrival in Liberia.
On arrival, all travellers from Nepal or Brazil will be taken directly from the airport to a government-approved quarantine facility (“Precautionary Observation Center/POC”). You must pay your quarantine fees before entering the facility. You will be tested 7 days after arrival. If your test is negative you will be released. It may take several days to receive this result, so you could spend up to 10 days in the POC.
If you test positive for COVID-19 while in the POC, you will be transferred from your POC to a government COVID-19 Treatment Unit at Star Base. You will only be released from the treatment unit after two consecutive negative COVID-19 tests. This could mean staying for 20 days or more. Liberian POCs and treatment units are basic, and not guaranteed to meet Public Health England standards.
There are two approved POCs:
Star Base (government facility), Bushrod Island. Fees are US$1000 for an individual; US$1200 for a couple; $15000 for families of 3 or more. Fees include lodging and 3 meals per day, plus transportation from the airport to Star Base. Payment for Star Base is by US dollars bank transfer to United Bank for Africa (UBA).
Correspondent Bank: CITI Bank New York
SWIFT Code: CITIUS33
ABA: 021000089
Account title: GOL COVID-19 Account
UBA Account No. USD 53030030026154
Address Broad & Nelson Streets, Monrovia, Liberia
SWIFT: UNAFLRLM
Beneficiary Name: Insert your name (this will be cross-referenced on your arrival)
Beneficiary Account No. Insert your account number (this will be cross-referenced on your arrival)
Murex Plaza Hotel & Suites, 10th Street Sinkor (12 rooms). Fees are US$90 per person per day, plus a US$25 transportation fee from the airport to the hotel. Fees include lodging and 1 breakfast per day, plus laundry. Lunch and dinner are charged separately. Contact the hotel directly for bookings: +231-7760988-880 or https://www.murexplaza.com.
If you test positive for COVID-19 whilst quarantining in the hotel, you will be transferred to the government COVID-19 Treatment Unit at Star Base and must remain there until you have two consecutive negative tests.
Travellers visiting on short missions of up to 5 days
If you are visiting Liberia for up to 5 days on a short mission (e.g. you were invited by government or an international NGO to provide technical assistance), you are exempt from testing on arrival, if you meet the following requirements (and have not travelled from Nepal or Brazil):
The organisation that has invited you should inform the chair or co-chair of the COVID-19 Incident Management System (IMS) in advance of your visit, of the purpose of your visit, the number of travellers, duration of visit, activity to be conducted, exact location you will stay, contact details while in Liberia, and address and contacts of references in Liberia.
You must present a negative PCR COVID-19 test result certificate from an accredited lab within 96 hours of testing (i.e. your test sample must have been collected a maximum of 4 days before arrival in Liberia);
You must present evidence of short stay (i.e. flight ticket); you must provide details of stay including telephone number, contact person and address; you must observe preventative measures while in Liberia;
You should provide your invitation documents.
You must present a negative test result on departure if your airline requires this (see Coronavirus testing for departing travellers).
If your mission is likely to be extended, your organisation must inform the IMS chair or co-chair 24-48 hours in advance.
If your stay in Liberia is extended beyond 5 days, you must undergo PCR testing before leaving Liberia (see Coronavirus testing for departing travellers).
Humanitarian workers deploying to Liberia
If you have travelled from Nepal or Brazil you must follow the rules above for managed quarantine.
If you have not travelled from Nepal or Brazil and are deploying to Liberia for a period of less than 15 days you should contact your organisation for advice on which rules to follow. If you have not travelled from Nepal or Brazil and are deploying to Liberia for a period of 15-60 days, you should follow a different process:
The organisation that is deploying you should inform the chair or co-chair of the COVID-19 Incident Management System (IMS) in advance of your proposed deployment, of the purpose of your deployment, the area of deployment, exact location you will stay, and contact details while in Liberia.
You must present a negative PCR COVID-19 test result certificate from an accredited lab within 96 hours of testing (i.e. your test sample must have been collected a maximum of 4 days before arrival in Liberia).
You must self-isolate for 7 days, beginning the day after arrival in Liberia. You must remain in your hotel or place of lodging and inform your employer if you develop any symptoms of COVID-19.
At the end of your 7-day self-isolation period, you must be tested for COVID-19 by the National Public Health Reference Laboratory team. Sample collection involves taking a swab of the inside of your nose and the back of your throat, using a long cotton bud, for PCR testing. Sample processing could take several days. See Testing on departure for information on test locations.
If your PCR test result is negative, you can proceed with your deployment. If your PCR test is positive, you will be subject to Liberia’s case management guidelines. This means NPHIL will consider your care on a case-by-case basis and you may be taken to a government COVID-19 treatment unit. Private health care facilities are not currently permitted to treat COVID-19 patients. Home-based care is considered on a case-by-case basis.
Exemptions to PCR testing on arrival:
Children under the age of 5 years old are exempt from COVID-19 testing and do not require a test result certificate. However, you should check your airline’s requirements.
Cabin crew, captains, flight engineers and first officers with layovers less than 48 hours are exempt from testing if they complete pre-boarding testing as per their airline’s policy and comply with screening procedures while in Liberia. They must complete screening on arrival and proceed to their designated flight crew hotel. If layover is more than 48 hours, cabin crew, captains, flight engineers and first officers must undergo PCR testing before leaving Liberia (see Coronavirus testing for departing travellers)
Diplomats and their families, honorary consuls, duly accredited international organisations’ staff and Liberian diplomats must present a negative PCR COVID-19 test result certificate from an accredited lab within 96 hours of testing (i.e. your test sample must have been collected a maximum of 4 days before arrival in Liberia). Alternatively, voluntary testing at the airport is available free of charge. If you do not present a valid negative PCR COVID-19 test result certificate, NPHIL staff will seek to test you on arrival.
You should not use the NHS testing service to get a test in order to facilitate your travel to another country. You should arrange to take a private test.
You should be prepared for travel restrictions, and changes to screening and quarantine requirements with no advance notice.
Quarantine requirements
Travellers from Nepal or Brazil must stay in an approved quarantine facility for a minimum of 8 days (see Travellers from Nepal or Brazil above).
For other travellers, depending on the length and reason for your visit, you may not have to isolate on arrival. However, for the majority of travellers Liberia recommends self-isolation for 7 days after arrival. Humanitarian works staying longer than 15 days will need to isolate on arrival for 7 days and then take a further PCR test. There is a risk for British nationals of being put into a government quarantine or medical facility, either on arrival or during your trip to Liberia. Liberian precautionary observation centre (POCs) are basic, and not guaranteed to meet Public Health England standards.
You are at risk of being put into quarantine or instructed to self-isolate even after completing your post-arrival self-isolation, if you develop symptoms (fever, cough or respiratory illness), or it is suspected you have been in contact with some who has tested positive for coronavirus. If you test positive for COVID-19, you may be transferred to a government quarantine facility or treatment centre. You are strongly advised to familiarise yourself with these risks before travelling.
If you are travelling on behalf of government, an international organisation/NGO or a company, you should check with your organisation whether they have pre-arranged a private POC, i.e. quarantine facility, authorised by NHPIL. The British Embassy cannot provide POC facilities. If you show symptoms, you may be transferred to a government POC or treatment centre.
Visitors arriving on a laissez-passer (except UN or EU), may also be taken to quarantine for secondary screening. Any suspicion of illegal attempts to circumvent the process will result in removal to quarantine.
Visas
If you are unable to leave Liberia and your visa is due to expire, you must apply for an extension. The maximum extension period is 60 days. It is only possible to extend your visa once. To apply for an extension in Monrovia, you should visit the Immigration Office at Gbarngaye’s Town, 24th Street, Sinkor. The office is open 9am to 3pm, Monday to Friday. You should ask for the Registration Section.
You must bring your passport and pay a fee of US$25. If you are staying outside Montserrado County, you should contact your local Immigration Office to seek a visa extension authorised by the Immigration County Commander. If you have already extended your visa once and it is due to expire, you must apply for a residence permit. In this case, please contact the British Embassy for advice by emailing Monrovia.GeneralEnquiries@fcdo.gov.uk
Regular entry requirements
Visas
British nationals need a visa to enter Liberia. You can get a visa from the Embassy of the Republic of Liberia in London.
Passport validity
Your passport should be valid for the proposed duration of your stay. No additional period of validity beyond this is required.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) aren’t valid for entry into Liberia. However, ETDs are accepted for airside transit and exit from Liberia.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
Registration of residents
If you’re intending to live in Liberia, you will need to register with the Liberian Immigration Service (LIS), Airfield New Road, Sinkor Monrovia. Visitors do not need to register with the LIS.
