If you have a health condition, or you are pregnant, you may need specialist healthcare abroad. Check whether your destination country can provide the healthcare you may need and ensure you have appropriate travel insurance for unexpected medical evacuation or local treatment.
See the Coronavirus travel health and Healthcare sections in the Coronavirus page for COVID-19 health information.
At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Other health risks
Malaria is a serious problem throughout Liberia, including in Monrovia. Typhoid is also common. Cases of circulating vaccine-derived poliovirus type 2 (cVDPV2) have occurred in 2021.
On 6 August 2021 the Ministry of Health in neighbouring Guinea confirmed a case of Marburg virus disease in Guekédou, Forestière Region. This is close to the border with Liberia. Liberian authorities are increasing their epidemiological surveillance levels in response. Monitor the NaTHNaC website for the latest information. You can find more information on Marburg virus disease from the World Health Organisation.
There have been previous outbreaks of Ebola in Liberia and there was recently an outbreak of Ebola in Guinea close to the Liberian border (the end was declared on 19 June 2021 following a 42 day countdown). Further information on Ebola can be found on the WHO website and the Public Health England (PHE) website. Public Health England has guidance for humanitarian or healthcare workers travelling to countries at risk of Ebola.
Cholera and malaria are present in Liberia and have similar early symptoms to Ebola. You should check this travel advice before travelling to Liberia and follow the health advice on the NHS website.
There is a risk of Lassa fever in Liberia, with several confirmed cases occurring this year. For more information on Lassa fever, you should visit the NaTHNaC website. If you’re concerned that you might have been exposed to, or are showing symptoms of Lassa fever, you should seek immediate medical advice.
The 2012 UNAIDS Report on the Global AIDS Epidemic estimated that around 18,000 adults aged 15 or over in Liberia were living with HIV; the prevalence percentage was estimated at around 0.9% of the adult population compared to the prevalence percentage in adults in the UK of around 0.25%.  You should exercise normal precautions to avoid exposure to HIV/AIDS.
Local medical care
Hospitals and medical facilities throughout Liberia are poorly equipped. There are no emergency services. Blood supplies are unreliable and unsafe, and medication is scarce. There is no effective public or commercial accident and emergency or ambulance service anywhere in the country. You should carry basic medical supplies. Medication is usually sold over the counter in pharmacies, without a prescription. However, supplies can be unreliable and medications available in the UK may not be available in Liberia. Ensure you have adequate supplies of prescription medication, bearing in mind the risk of delays due to flight cancellations. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad, medical evacuation and repatriation. Most health care providers only accept cash payments.
Previous increases in serious COVID-19 cases caused Liberian healthcare facilities to experience severe capacity constraints. There was a lack of oxygen, medication, personal protective equipment and critical care beds. There were reports that accident victims with serious injuries were turned away from hospitals, and that patients experiencing respiratory distress died due to lack of oxygen. Although confirmed COVID-19 cases have now reduced, they could increase again. You should consider the significant health risks before travelling to Liberia.
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
