There are currently no commercial options available to return to the UK from Liberia. All commercial flights (except cargo, charter and special flights) are suspended.
Currently all land borders (with Sierra Leone, Guinea and Côte d’Ivoire) are closed to travellers.
UK special flights
A special flight will depart from Roberts International Airport in Monrovia on 3 June to the UK.
Eligibility
These flights are for:
British nationals, normally resident in the UK
dependants travelling with a British national
Vulnerable British nationals will be prioritised.
Vulnerable, non-British UK residents with Indefinite Leave to Remain, and other foreign nationals, may be accommodated if there is sufficient capacity.
Your eligibility will be checked before your tickets are issued.
Cost
The cost of the flight is £600 per person.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government to cover the cost of the ticket. This is a last resort option only available to British nationals and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK.
Our partner CTM is authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO and details will be available when you are asked to pay.
How to book
CTM is working on behalf of the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) to manage special flight bookings.
If you wish to travel, book on the CTM website as soon as possible.
To book flights on the CTM website, you will need:
full passport and contact details for each traveller
your UK home address and postcode
your means of payment, such as credit or debit card details
The booking website is only available to British nationals. If you have difficulty booking online, or if you are a vulnerable non-British UK resident with Indefinite Leave to Remain, or another foreign national, then you will need to contact us. To do so, send an SMS text message containing only your full name to +44 (0) 753 745 3868. Some international charges may apply. A member of the CTM team will then be in touch.
Tickets will not be on sale at the airport. Do not travel to the airport without a confirmed ticket.
You may find it helpful to read our guide to eligibility and the booking process for special charter flights.
Travel to the airport
A nationwide State of Emergency is currently in place across Liberia, and all counties are subject to travel restrictions. If you are staying outside Montserrado or Margibi counties and will need to cross county borders to reach the airport, you will require a travel pass issued by the Government of Liberia. You should contact the British Embassy immediately to request our assistance.
Please also note the nationwide daily curfew between 6.00pm and 6.00am daily. Make sure to complete your journey before the curfew. For travellers far from the airport, this may mean travelling the day before and staying overnight in Monrovia or near the airport. If you are travelling to the airport for the special flight to the UK, Liberian police may ask to see your ticket and passport in order to let you pass the checkpoints.
Your journey home
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
If you’re returning home before 8 June, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others. From 8 June there will be new rules for entering the UK.
Future travel options
Thank you to everyone who registered their details via our Travel Advice. Your information helped us plan for this special flight. We do not plan any further UK government repatriation flights from Liberia after 3 June. All British travellers wanting to return to the UK should apply for flight tickets using the process above.
If you don’t take this flight, you should be prepared to remain in Liberia until travel returns to normal. International commercial passenger flights are unlikely to resume for some time. The Foreign and Commonwealth Office is in contact with airlines, the Liberia authorities and other governments to make sure commercial options for returning to the UK are available as soon as possible.
This travel advice will be updated with any information on resumption of commercial passenger flights. Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British Embassy on Twitter and Facebook. In the meantime, you should continue to follow any regulations set out by the Liberian government during the lockdown.
If you cannot leave Liberia
If you cannot leave Liberia, see advice on staying in Liberia during coronavirus.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British Embassy on +231 777 530 320 or use our Consular Contact Form.
The British Embassy cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone. This page will be updated when departure options become available. To get the latest information, sign up for travel advice email alerts.
Further information
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot travel immediately.
