

Political Situation
Liberia has become increasingly stable since the internal conflict ended in 2003. The Liberian government is working closely with the UN and the international community to provide increased stability and development.
Protests and demonstrations do take place on occasion. You should avoid protests, demonstrations, political rallies, large gatherings and crowds and follow the advice of local authorities.
Liberia’s general and Presidential elections take place on 10 October and the electoral process could last for several weeks. Avoid political gatherings or demonstrations.
Demonstrations and rallies can be unpredictable and may turn violent. You should exercise a high degree of caution and monitor local media for developments.
Crime
Most visits to Liberia are incident free but there is a high level of crime in Monrovia, including armed robbery. Foreigners are occasionally targeted, although Liberians are the main victims of crime. The Liberian National Police has very limited capability to prevent or detect crime, or to provide emergency response in any part of the country. Levels of crime are much higher after dark. Don’t walk anywhere in the city at night.
Take care when walking alone and only do so during daylight hours. Avoid areas where there are few people, such as beaches.
Most crime is opportunistic theft, but there are organised criminal gangs. Thieves are often armed with knives or machetes, but occasionally also carry firearms. While Liberians are the main victims of crime, the relative wealth of international visitors makes them an attractive target for criminals. Avoid carrying valuables or large sums of money in public and be vigilant at all times, especially at night. Mobile phones and laptops are common targets of theft.
Foreigners have been mugged in the Mamba Point and Sinkor areas of Monrovia (including Sinkor beach in broad daylight), where most international visitors stay. Be wary if you are approached by strangers. Criminals also operate in nightclubs and on beaches.
Accommodation occupied by international workers has occasionally been targeted by burglars. Thefts have occurred in taxis. You should avoid local public transport. There is a high incidence of rape in Liberia. There have been cases of rapes and attempted rapes involving foreign women although these are rare.
Take extra care when driving in heavy traffic or off the main roads.
Consider your security arrangements carefully before your arrival in Liberia. Stay only in reputable accommodation with adequate guarding and other security arrangements, and arrange for transport, including travel to and from the airport in advance. Roberts International Airport is around 30 miles from central Monrovia, much of the journey passing through rural areas.
Local Travel
There are sometimes clashes between armed groups from both sides of the Liberian/Cote d’Ivoire border in some of the more remote border areas of Grand Gedeh and River Gee counties. To avoid straying into these areas, use the main roads when travelling in these counties.
The ability of the national authorities to provide emergency help outside Monrovia is limited. Check the security situation before travelling to any part of the country. Violent incidents, particularly in rural areas, are possible as a result of land disputes, illegal mining and occupation of rubber plantations. Organised groups of former combatants may be present in areas of the country where there is limited government security presence, including Sinoe rubber plantation and Sapo National Park.
The Samuel K Doe Stadium in Monrovia can become overcrowded during major football matches or events.
Road Travel
An International Driving Permit (IDP) is recommended. A temporary local licence may be obtained on production of a UK licence, but this may be time consuming and more expensive. From 28 March 2019, you will need to have a 1968 International Driving Permit (IDP). 1949 IDPs previously issued by the UK may no longer be accepted for use in Liberia after this date.
From 1 February 2019, you can only get IDPs over the counter from 2,500 UK Post Offices. You will not be able to buy an IDP outside the UK, so get one before you travel.
The roads from Monrovia to the port town of Buchanan and to the border with Sierra Leone at Bo Waterside, and to the border with Guinea at Ganta, are mainly paved and in reasonable condition. However, the road from Monrovia to Roberts International Airport is currently undergoing roadworks and can be hazardous, and most other roads outside Monrovia are unpaved. Driving and road conditions deteriorate significantly during the rainy season (May to November), and many roads may become impassable.
Avoid travelling at night outside Monrovia, except to or from Roberts International Airport (but with care due to ongoing roadworks). Roads are treacherous and all roads are unlit. Vehicles often do not have lights. You are more vulnerable to being robbed at an illegal check point at night.
Make precautionary arrangements for dealing with breakdowns, including considering travel with more than one vehicle. Traffic accidents can quickly draw hostile crowds, who may attempt to take justice into their own hands. Use a local driver outside Monrovia rather than driving yourself.
The standard of driving is generally poor. Be particularly alert to dangers from other vehicles swerving to avoid potholes and from taxis slowing or stopping unpredictably to pick up or drop off passengers and motorcycle taxis ‘Pein-Peins’ (the main cause of road accidents). Motorcycle taxis are very dangerous.
Be prepared to stop at checkpoints operated by the Liberian National Police, or other Liberian security authorities, which are found on roads throughout the country. Pull over to the side of the road immediately when instructed by security forces accompanying VIP convoys.
Air Travel
Travellers should be aware that all Liberia-certified air carriers are included on the UK Air Safety List (ASL).
The UK Air Safety List identifies foreign airlines which do not fulfil the necessary international safety standards, and are banned from operating commercial air services to, from, and within the United Kingdom. Its purpose is to help UK travellers to make informed decisions on which air carriers to use when flying overseas, including on domestic flights. We advise UK nationals travelling overseas to take account of the UK Air Safety List when considering which carriers to fly with. The list is maintained by the UK Civil Aviation Authority.
Keep up to date with real-time information from your airline, tour operator or accommodation provider on the impact on any existing travel plans.
River and Sea Travel
Liberia has many attractive beaches, but the Atlantic Ocean is subject to rip tides and other dangerous currents. Swimmers should take care and seek local advice before entering the water. Avoid canoes and fishing boats offering passenger services. They are regularly overwhelmed by strong waves and currents.
