This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Liberia as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Liberia to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Liberia
For information on entering Liberia, see Entry requirements.
A nationwide State of Emergency, which includes a range of measures to prevent the spread of coronavirus, is in place for 60 days from 10 April. Security forces will enforce measures. You should adhere to all rules and seek information from local authorities. Details could change and further restrictions be imposed.
Under the State of Emergency, all 15 counties will be quarantined from 10 April until further notice. Movement between counties will be prohibited (except between Montserrado and Margibi counties, which are quarantined as a single unit). A permit is required for essential travel between counties.
All residents were ordered to stay at home for 30 days from 10 April, with a curfew in place from 3pm to 6am. The Government has extended this ‘Stay at Home’ order, by two further weeks, to 24 May.
You may only leave your home for essential journeys (food purchases or health care needs), restricted to your local community. Only one member of your household may go out for a maximum of one hour. If you go out in public, you must wear a mask. Essential businesses (e.g. supermarkets and pharmacies) must close by 15:00 each day. If you are an essential worker (e.g. government, utilities, food production, healthcare, etc.) you may be exempt from some restrictions.
Preventative measures introduced on 22 March continue to apply, including mandatory hand washing with soap and clean water at all premises, limits on gatherings and numbers of persons allowed in public premises at any one time. Some offices and businesses may also require temperature checks.
Liberian authorities have advised community members to report those showing coronavirus symptoms (coughing, fever, and difficulty breathing) by calling 4455.
Visas
If you are unable to leave Liberia and your visa is due to expire, you must apply for an extension. The maximum extension period is 60 days. It is only possible to extend your visa once. To apply for an extension in Monrovia, you should visit the Immigration Office at Gbarngaye’s Town, 24th Street, Sinkor. The office is open 9am to 3pm, Monday to Friday. You should ask for the Registration Section.
You must bring your passport and pay a fee of US$25. If you are staying outside Montserrado County, you should contact your local Immigration Office to seek a visa extension authorised by the Immigration County Commander. If you have already extended your visa once and it is due to expire, you must apply for a residence permit. In this case, please contact the British Embassy for advice by emailing Monrovia.GeneralEnquiries@fco.gov.uk
Health
Patients who test positive for coronavirus will be transferred to government treatment facilities. Patients displaying coronavirus symptoms will be transferred to a government quarantine facility. Private medical facilities are currently not permitted to test for or treat coronavirus.
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Liberia.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Quarantine
There is a high risk for British nationals of being put into 14 days of quarantine, either on arrival or during your trip to Liberia. Liberian quarantine centres are basic, and not guaranteed to meet Public Health England standards.
You are at risk of being put into quarantine or instructed to self-isolate for 14 days even after you have arrived in Liberia, if you have been to an affected country, or develop symptoms (fever, cough or respiratory illness), or it is suspected you have been in contact with some who has tested positive for coronavirus. If you test positive for COVID-19, you may be transferred to a government treatment centre. You are strongly advised to familiarise yourself with these risks before travelling.
All foreign citizens at Precautionary Observation Centre (POCs) will have their passports removed and held by NPHIL. You will be given a copy of your passport to retain whilst in the POC.
If you are travelling on behalf of government, an international organisation/NGO or a company, you should check with your organisation whether they have pre-arranged a private POC, i.e. quarantine facility, authorised by NHPIL. The British Embassy cannot provide POC facilities. If you show symptoms, you may be transferred to quarantine or a government treatment centre.
Visitors arriving on a laissez-passer (except UN or EU), will also be taken to a POC (quarantine) for secondary screening. Any suspicion of illegal attempts to circumvent the process will result in 14 days of quarantine.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
The Government of Liberia usually posts announcements on the following Facebook pages:
Ministry of Information, Culture & Tourism (MICAT)
Executive Mansion – Liberia
National Public Health Institute of Liberia (NPHIL)
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
