The FCDO advises against all but essential travel to the whole of Liberia based on the current assessment of COVID-19 risks.
COVID-19 entry restrictions for Liberia
Before you travel, check the ‘Entry requirements’ section for Liberia’s current entry restrictions and requirements. These may change with little warning. Monitor this advice for the latest updates and stay in contact with your travel provider.
Returning to the UK
Liberia is on the amber list for entering England. Check what you must do to enter England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
If you’re planning travel to Liberia, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) guidance on foreign travel insurance.
For information about COVID-19 vaccines, see the Coronavirus page.
On 6 August 2021 the Ministry of Health in neighbouring Guinea confirmed a case of Marburg virus disease in Guekédou, Forestière Region. This is close to the border with Liberia. Monitor the NaTHNaC website for the latest information. You can find more information on Marburg virus disease from the World Health Organisation. See Health.
On arrival at Roberts International Airport, all non-exempt travellers will be tested for COVID-19 using rapid tests. Any travellers testing positive will be transported by health authorities to the government COVID-19 Treatment Unit. Travellers will be held there for a minimum of 7 days, and possibly for more than 2 weeks, depending on clinical assessment. Liberian treatment units are basic, and not guaranteed to meet Public Health England standards. For more information, see Entry requirements.
Due to increased coronavirus cases, Liberian healthcare facilities recently experienced severe capacity constraints. You should consider the significant health risks before travelling to Liberia. For more information see Health.
Liberia’s banking sector is currently experiencing cash shortages (of both US dollars and Liberian dollars). Banks and foreign exchange facilities may be unable to pay out transferred funds or fulfil ATM withdrawals. Bring sufficient funds, in US dollars cash, to cover all expenses. See Money.
Protests and demonstrations do take place in Monrovia on occasion. You should avoid protests, demonstrations, political rallies, large gatherings and crowds and follow the advice of local authorities.
Terrorists are likely to try to carry out attacks in Liberia. Attacks could be indiscriminate. You should be vigilant, especially in places visited by foreigners. See Terrorism
General medical facilities throughout Liberia are unable to provide the same standard of healthcare as in the UK. Facilities in rural areas are rudimentary. Many medical facilities expect to be paid up-front for treatment. If you travel to Liberia, stay in contact with your employer or host organisation about the support that they can provide to you while you’re in the country.
If you’re concerned that you might have been exposed to, or showing symptoms of Marburg virus disease, Ebola or Lassa fever, you should seek immediate medical advice. If you’re in the UK call NHS on 111.
Avoid travelling at night outside Monrovia, except to or from Roberts International Airport. Make sure you have pre-arranged transport from the airport. See Crime and Road travel
The small British Embassy in Monrovia can only offer limited consular assistance.
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.
