Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for São Tomé and Príncipe on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in São Tomé and Príncipe.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
You are responsible for organizing your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements. You should check that the test result can be provided in the correct format and language.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in São Tomé and Príncipe
The government of São Tomé and Príncipe has declared a “State of Calamity”. This continues to impose a number of restrictions and public health measures to limit the spread of the virus.
Accommodation
Some hotels remain closed. Other hotels and private rentals continue to operate with some restrictions and coronavirus precautionary measures in place. You should contact your accommodation provider before booking to confirm whether your preferred accommodation is open and what restrictions are in place.
Public places and services
The majority of shops, banks and restaurants continue to operate, with some restrictions (e.g. reduced opening hours) and coronavirus precautionary measures in place.
People are advised to maintain hygiene standards, which includes regular hand washing, wearing face masks in public and maintaining social distancing.
Face masks are compulsory in all closed public areas and inside vehicles.
Public gatherings at market places and churches to continue operate at 50% capacity
Nightclubs and festivals continue to be banned.
Healthcare
If you think you have COVID-19 symptoms, you should contact your nearest clinic or medical centre. Dial 115 for emergencies.
View Health for further details on healthcare in São Tomé and Príncipe.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in São Tomé and Principe
Wherever possible British nationals should aim to be vaccinated in the country where they live. We will update this page when the Government of São Tomé and Príncipe announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The São Tomé and Príncipe national vaccination programme started in March 2021 and is using the AstraZeneca vaccine. British nationals resident in São Tomé and Príncipe are eligible for vaccination. Further information on the vaccination programme is available here.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in São Tomé and Príncipe, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
If you need urgent consular assistance, you should contact the British Embassy in Luanda, Angola.
