This page has information on travelling to São Tomé and Príncipe.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in São Tomé and Príncipe set and enforce entry rules. If you’re unsure how São Tomé and Príncipe entry requirements apply to you, contact its UK embassy, high commission or consulate.
All travellers
There are currently no restrictions on UK nationals entering São Tomé and Príncipe, provided you comply with the entry requirements outlined below.
All air passengers arriving or departing in São Tomé and Principe are not required to have proof of a negative COVID-19 PCR test.
If you’re fully vaccinated
If you’re fully vaccinated, you can enter São Tomé and Principe without needing to quarantine regardless of your reason for travel. However, you should check with your airline in advance of travelling as the rules may differ if travelling from a third country. Only vaccines authorised by the European Medicines Agency or by the World Health Organisation are accepted.
Proof of vaccination status
São Tomé and Principe will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 recovery and COVID-19 vaccination record and proof of COVID-19 vaccination issued in the Crown Dependencies. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
If you’re not fully vaccinated
You can still enter São Tomé and Principe without vaccination provided you have proof of a negative COVID-19 PCR test.
If you’ve had COVID-19 in the past year
Entry requirements for São Tomé and Principe are the same for all travellers, regardless of whether you have tested positive for COVID-19 in the past year.
Children and young people
Children under the age of 12 years old do not need to show proof of vaccination on entry to São Tomé and Príncipe.
If you’re transiting through São Tomé and Principe
Transiting is when you pass through one country on the way to your final destination.
Check with your airline before departing.
Exemptions
There are no exemptions to São Tomé and Principe’s entry requirements.
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
Passport validity
Your passport should be valid for the proposed duration of your stay. No additional period of validity beyond this is required.
Visas
If you’re visiting São Tomé and Principe for tourism for a period of up to 15 days, you don’t need a visa. However, visitors are currently required to pay a €20.00 entry fee on arrival. For more information on visas, contact direccaosmf@gmail.com.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
UK emergency travel documents
A UK emergency travel document will be accepted on entry to, departure from and transit through São Tomé and Príncipe.
