There are currently no commercial options available to return to the UK from São Tomé and Príncipe. Charter flights and cruise ships are prohibited.
We know this is concerning for British people trying to leave São Tomé and Príncipe. The UK government is working closely with airlines, the São Tomé and Príncipe authorities and other governments to make sure options are available for any British citizens stranded in the country to return to the UK as soon as possible.
If you have flights booked to or from São Tomé and Príncipe on a future date, you should contact your airline or tour operator to confirm travel arrangements.
Future travel options
This travel advice will be updated when departure options become available. Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British Embassy Luanda on Twitter and Facebook
If you wish to return to the UK from São Tomé and Príncipe, you should also contact the British Embassy Luanda on BritishEmbassy.LuandaGeral@fco.gov.uk and we will update you directly with details of any possible future flight options.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Your journey home
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British Embassy in Luanda, Angola on +244 222 334 583.
The Embassy cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone. This page will be updated when departure options become available. To get the latest information, sign up for travel advice email alerts.
