

Terrorism  
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.      
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad. 
Terrorism in São Tomé and Príncipe 
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in São Tomé and Príncipe, attacks cannot be ruled out.   
Political situation  
Economic difficulties and political rows over the handling of investments in São Tomé and Príncipe’s development can occasionally lead to civil unrest. 
Crime 
The crime rate in São Tomé and Príncipe is generally low, but burglaries and armed robberies can happen. You can take steps to reduce your risk and help protect your belongings, including: 
not wearing expensive jewellery or carrying large amounts of cash 
not taking valuables to the beach 
keeping valuable documents somewhere secure, such as a hotel safe 
Laws and cultural differences 
Illegal drugs and prison sentences 
There are severe penalties for all drug offences. Pack all luggage yourself and do not carry anything through customs for anyone else.   
LGBT+ travellers 
Same-sex sexual activity is legal in São Tomé and Príncipe. Attitudes towards same-sex relationships are less tolerant than in the UK and showing affection in public may attract unwanted and negative attention. 
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers. 
Money 
Credit cards are not widely accepted in São Tomé and Príncipe. Check if your hotel or restaurant accepts credit cards. There are only a small number of ATMs. You can withdraw cash from the main bank in the capital city, São Tomé. 
Transport risks  
Road travel 
If you are planning to drive in São Tomé and Príncipe, see information on driving abroad. 
You’ll need to have both the correct version of the international driving permit (IDP) and your UK driving licence with you in the car. 
Road conditions 
Many roads are in poor condition and unlit, particularly outside the capital. Animals often walk on roads at night. Landslides after heavy rain can block roads. 
Public transport 
Taxis and motorbike taxis (‘motoqueiros’) are the only forms of public transport. They are often unsafe and in poor condition. It’s common for people to share taxis.  
Air travel 
The UK Air Safety List (ASL) lists all known airlines in São Tomé and Príncipe that do not meet international safety standards and are banned from operating commercial air services to, from, and within the UK. Check the UK Air Safety List when considering which airlines to fly with. The list is maintained by the Department for Transport, based on advice from the UK Civil Aviation Authority.  
