Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

Cases of coronavirus (COVID-19) have been confirmed in Albania. The Albanian authorities have introduced a number of measures to limit the spread of the virus.
International travel
All borders are closed (with the exception of freight) to all nationals.
There are currently extremely limited commercial options available to return to the UK from Albania. The only commercial means of leaving Albania to return to the UK is an Air Albania flight scheduled to leave on 2 May. For information on how to return to the UK from Albania, see Return to the UK
We know this is concerning for British nationals trying to leave Albania. The UK government is working closely with airlines, the Albanian authorities and other governments to make sure options are available to return to the UK as soon as possible.
What to do
If you cannot leave Albania at this time, you should:
follow the advice of local authorities, including local measures to help minimise your risk of exposure to coronavirus;
find accommodation that’s suitable for your needs;
keep in regular contact with family and friends at home, so they know you are safe and well.
Keep up to date with information from your tour operator, transport or accommodation provider on the impact on any existing travel plans. If you need further information about entry requirements, contact the local immigration authorities or the nearest Albanian Embassy/Consulate. You should also check with your airline or travel company for the latest information.
If you are worried about overstaying in Albania due to international travel restrictions, you should send a request via e-mail to migracioni.tirane@asp.gov.al and policiakufitare@asp.gov.al and require an extension to your stay in Albania. You should attach your travel document to the e-mail. You should retain the confirmation e-mail as you will need to show it at the police checkpoint when you exit Albania once travel restrictions are removed.
Other measures
The Albanian Government has extended the State Emergency until 23 June 2020.
Albanian residents who currently return to Albania via the repatriation flights organised by the Albanian Government on set schedules, undergo mandatory 14-day isolation at facilities around Durres district as authorised by the Albanian authorities.
Public transport country wide has been suspended until further notice. Inter-urban transport is suspended for the following national roads: Fier-Vlorë, Vlorë-Lushnjë, Shkodër-Lezhë and Elbasan-Korcë until further notice. Certain exemptions apply e.g. ambulances, and transport linked to food and pharmaceutical supplies or the media.
Starting from Monday 27 April, cities which are considered by local authorities as “green areas” will allow citizens to move in their private vehicles without authorisation from 09:30 to 17:30 as long as they have no more than two passengers and no elderly people with them. The cities categorised as green areas are currently as follows: Mat, Diber, Klos, Bulqize, Librazhd, Prrenjas, Pogradec, Divjake, Memaliaj, Kelcyre, Tepelene, Himare, Gjirokaster, Permet, Libohove, Dropull, Finiq, Konispol and Sarande.
Starting Monday, 27 April taxis will be allowed to move within cities. Only one passenger will be allowed at a time except where passengers are from the same family or the passenger has special needs where they may be accompanied by another adult.
Updated restrictions on movement within Albania were introduced on 13 April, with a €16,000 fine for non-compliance. People outside of the “green areas” with permission to work from the Albanian State Police can do so between 0500 to 1730. You can travel to work in your private vehicle with a maximum of one co-worker allowed as a passenger between 0500 and 0800, and return home between 1600 and 1730.
A large number of businesses were allowed to restart their activities as of 20 April under strict protective measures. Reopened businesses include those involved in the production industry, textile, sales of clothing, hotels, fishing, cosmetic stores (not beauty parlours), sales of electronic supplies, furniture sales, sales of jewellery and watches as well as activities organised by religious and political organisations except those which require gatherings of citizens.
Bars, restaurants, gyms and dental clinics remain closed until further notice.
All schools are closed until further notice.
Permission to go shopping is granted to one person per household for 2 hours per day, with authorisation from the Albanian Police.
Movement is not allowed from Fridays 1730 until Mondays 0500, except the elderly who are allowed to go out on Saturdays until 1100 and mothers with children up to 10 years old who are allowed to go out on Sundays until 1100.
There is a ban on sitting in parks or public areas with a potential fine of up to 20,000 ALL.
If you’re in Albania, you should adhere to these instructions and follow the advice of the local authorities.
Further information
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
You can find more information about cases in Albania on the TravelHealthPro country page.
