This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Albania set and enforce entry rules. For further information contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to. You should also consider checking with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Entry rules in response to coronavirus (COVID-19)
All land borders are open. However neighbouring countries may have different entry and exit restrictions on their side of the border. You should check before travelling.
Keep up to date with information from your tour operator, transport or accommodation provider on the impact on any existing travel plans. If you need further information about entry requirements, contact the local immigration authorities or the nearest Albanian Embassy/Consulate. You should also check with your airline or travel company for the latest information.
Entering Albania from the UK
British nationals, aged six and above, travelling to Albania from the UK and elsewhere, must demonstrate one of the following:
proof of COVID-19 vaccination. The second/final dose of vaccine must have been administered at least 14 days before arrival. (See ‘Demonstrating your COVID-19 status’)
negative PCR COVID-19 test performed up to 72 hours ahead of arrival
rapid Antigen (COVID-19) test performed no more than 48 hours ahead of arrival
evidence proving that you have recovered from COVID-19 within the last six months
These requirements also apply to those travellers who transit through Albania. Those who cannot provide such evidence may not be granted entry to Albania. For more detailed information, check the information provided by the Albanian Ministry for Europe and Foreign Affairs.
All passengers who are allowed to enter the territory of the Republic of Albania, in addition to complying with the protocols of airline international standards worldwide, must also adhere to the rules listed below:
only travelling passengers can enter the airport building
passengers must maintain social distancing of 1.5 meters during their entire time in the airport
priority is given to the elderly, people in need and families with minor children
for more information, see the Tirana International Airport website
Demonstrating your COVID-19 status
Albania will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 recovery and vaccination record and proof of COVID-19 vaccination issued in the Crown Dependencies. If you are travelling with a printed PDF proof of vaccination status, it must date from 1 November 2021 to ensure that the certificate can be scanned successfully. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
Quarantine and testing requirements if you’re travelling to neighbouring countries from Albania
If you are a British national travelling from Albania to Kosovo, you can enter Kosovo only by providing proof of vaccination with three doses or by providing proof of vaccination with two doses and a negative PCR test. British nationals transiting through Kosovo who leave within 3 hours of arrival are exempt, as are British nationals passing through Kosovo by organised transport (i.e. regular bus line), provided they leave within 5 hours. If you are a British national resident in Kosovo and have not been vaccinated but are returning to Kosovo, will be offered a vaccine at the border.
If you are a British national travelling from Albania to North Macedonia you must provide a full vaccination certificate, or a negative PCR test taken within 72 hours before arrival or a certificate of recovery from COVID-19 in the last 45 days. Transit through North Macedonia within 5 hours will be possible by signing a statement at the border.
If you are a British national aged 18 and above travelling from Albania to Montenegro as of 13 January 2022 you must provide at least one of the following: a negative PCR test taken within 72 hours of travel; a negative rapid antigen test recognized by the European Commission, taken within 48 hours of arrival, a positive PCR test or rapid antigen test, which is older than 10 days and not older than 180 days since the day of the test, demonstrating recovery from COVID-19 or proof that you have been fully vaccinated against COVID-19, including with a booster dose if your vaccination was more than 6 months earlier.
If you are a British national aged 5 and above travelling from Albania to Greece you can enter it only by the following land borders: Kakavia and Qafë-Botë. Travellers must fill in a Passenger Locator Form (PLF) before arrival in Greece. You must provide either proof of a negative COVID-19 PCR test, undertaken within the 72 hour period before arrival into Greece; or proof of a negative COVID-19 rapid antigen test from an authorized laboratory, undertaken within the 24 hour period before your arrival into Greece. Travellers with proof of either are exempted from the need to self-isolate on arrival in Greece. Failure to provide proof of either will likely result in the Greek authorities refusing you permission to enter Greece.
If you are a British national travelling from Albania to Italy as of 16 December 2021 you can enter Italy only for work, health, study or exceptional emergency reasons. The exception applies also for citizens who are resident in Italy and need to return to their homes and for nationals who are currently in Italy and need to return to their residency address outside of Italy. Travellers must provide proof of a negative COVID-19 PCR test taken within 72hrs of the time of travel, a completed Passenger Locator Form (PLF) and must quarantine for 10 full days in the location provided on the PLF. These requirements remain in effect until 31 January 2022.
Regular entry requirements
Visas
British citizens can enter and remain in Albania for a maximum of 90 days in every 6-month period without a visa. The Albanian authorities require anyone staying longer than 90 days to apply at a local police station for a residence permit.
As of 9 September 2021, British citizens who have a valid residence permit in the Republic of Albania can apply to be issued with a Biometric Card for foreign citizens. The design of this card is very similar to the National ID Card issued to Albanian citizens.
Holding this card enables registration on the e-Albania platform, providing access to the services that the platform offers for foreign citizens.
In order to apply you should buy a coupon at the nearest Albanian Post Office and visit the ALEAT office located at the Border and Migration Directorate (the same office which issues residence permits) to submit your application in person.
You can find further information on the Albanian Ministry of Interior website.
Passport validity 
Your passport should be valid for a minimum period of 3 months from the date of entry into Albania.  
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents are accepted for entry, airside transit and exit from Albania.
