Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

One commercial option to return to the UK from Albania remains.
If you live in the UK and are currently visiting Albania, you’re strongly advised to return now by commercial means. Don’t run the risk of getting stranded.
UK special charter flights will only operate for priority countries where commercial flights are not possible. You should not assume that these flights will become available in countries where commercial routes are operating. Please do not contact the contracted travel management company if no flight is advertised here.
Flights
Air Albania are operating a flight from Tirana to London on Thursday 7 May. For details of how to book tickets, please consult the Air Albania website.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Future travel options
At present there are no other flights planned to the UK after 7 May. We know this is concerning for British nationals trying to leave Albania. The UK government is working closely with airlines, the Albanian authorities and other governments to make sure options are available to return to the UK as soon as possible.
Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British Embassy on Twitter and Facebook.
Travelling to the airport
The Albanian authorities have suspended all public transport. Taxis will be allowed movement from Monday 27 April. If you are returning to the UK via Air Albania and you need to travel to Tirana International Airport, you should provide the private vehicle/taxi driver with a copy of your flight ticket in case he/she is stopped by the local police en route to the airport.
Arrival in the UK
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
If you cannot leave Albania
What to do
If you cannot leave Albania at this time, you should:
follow the advice of local authorities, including local measures to help minimise your risk of exposure to coronavirus;
find accommodation that’s suitable for your needs;
keep in regular contact with family and friends at home, so they know you are safe and well.
If you are worried about overstaying in Albania due to international travel restrictions, you should send a request via e-mail to migracioni.tirane@asp.gov.al and policiakufitare@asp.gov.al and require an extension to your stay in Albania. You should attach your travel document to the e-mail. You should retain the confirmation e-mail as you will need to show it at the police checkpoint when you exit Albania once travel restrictions are removed.
See more information and advice about staying where you are if you cannot return to the UK.
