

Terrorism 
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.     
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Albania
Terrorist attacks in Albania cannot be ruled out.
Attacks could be indiscriminate including in places visited by foreigners. Stay aware of your surroundings, keep up to date with local media reports and follow the advice of local authorities.
Political situation
Relations between the majority Muslim population and other ethnic groups in Albania are generally good. The expression of extremist or anti-western views is very rare.    
Political and other demonstrations have been held in central Tirana, with some reported incidents of violence. Demonstrations can cause traffic diversions and other disruption. Demonstrations could happen elsewhere, and may take place outside the capital city.
You should:
check local media for the latest information
avoid any demonstrations, large-scale gatherings or political rallies
follow the advice of the local authorities
Crime
There is crime and violence in some areas, but reports of crime targeting foreigners are rare. There have been occasional shootings and small explosions related to internal disputes over criminal, business or political interests.    
Protecting yourself and your belongings
Take sensible precautions to protect yourself from street crime, particularly in larger cities and late at night.
Watch out for pickpockets and bag thieves in tourist areas, on buses and trains and major public transport hubs, including airports.
Laws and cultural differences
Illegal drugs and prison sentences
Penalties for drug-related crimes are severe. Possession of illegal drugs could result in a prison sentence of 5 to 10 years. The penalty for supplying drugs is up to 15 years in prison.     
Being arrested
The Albanian authorities do not always inform the British Embassy when British nationals have been arrested. If you are detained, you may insist on your right to contact the British Embassy in Tirana.
LGBT+ travellers
Same-sex relationships are legal in Albania. Anti-discrimination and anti-hate-crime legislation is in place. Tirana has several gay-friendly bars and a number of LGBT+ support groups.
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Outdoor activities and adventure tourism
Water sports and swimming safety   
There are some local press reports that jet skis and boats being rented along the coasts may lack adequate safety precautions and equipment.
If you are considering taking part in water sports activities, do so through a licensed water sports centre and make sure paperwork is completed before starting the activity.
See watersports safety abroad from the Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents.
Take note of warning signs, follow instructions from lifeguards and observe the flag indicators on beaches. Take local advice if jellyfish or urchins are present.
The 2023 European Environment Agency report noted that a small number of beaches are polluted because of inadequate sewage disposal and treatment.
See water safety on holiday from the Royal Life Saving Society.
Transport risks
Road travel
If you are planning to drive in Albania, see information on driving abroad and check the rules of the road in the RAC’s Albania guide. The guide lists driving regulations and other legal requirements you need to be aware of.
You may find it useful to have a 1968 international driving permit (IDP) as well as your UK licence. The 1949 IDP is not accepted any more. You cannot buy an IDP outside the UK, so get one before you travel.
You must carry a green card as proof of vehicle insurance to drive your car in Albania. If you’re planning to hire a car, check with your car hire company for information on their requirements before you travel.
Check if you need a UK sticker to drive your car outside the UK.
If you stay longer than one year, or live in Albania, you will need to apply for an Albanian driving licence.
To import a vehicle into Albania, make sure you have all the necessary papers on arrival at the border. Consult the Albanian Embassy in the UK before you leave. The British Embassy will be unable to help anyone attempting to bring a vehicle into Albania without the correct paperwork.
Dangers of driving in Albania
Driving can be very hazardous and often aggressive and erratic. Deaths from road traffic accidents are amongst the highest in Europe. Police have taken some measures to decrease the number of accidents.
Minor traffic disputes can quickly escalate, especially as some motorists could be armed. Avoid reacting to provocative behaviour by other road users.
If you are involved in a traffic accident, even a minor one, remain at the scene until the police arrive. This will usually happen quite quickly in built-up areas. Failing to wait could result in charges under the Albanian Penal Code and you could get a fine.
Road conditions
Road surfaces are poor, especially in rural areas. If you are travelling at night, watch out for unmarked roadworks, potholes and vehicles without lights. Four-wheel drive vehicles are more practical on rural and minor roads.
Power cuts can affect street lighting in towns and cities. Elsewhere, even on the major routes, there is no street lighting.
Landmines
There are still unexploded landmines in some remote areas around hill towns on the northern border with Kosovo. Take care, particularly if hiking, and follow any warning signs. Do not walk on uncultivated land or step off the marked paths. If in doubt, seek local advice.    
Extreme weather and natural disasters     
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards.
Earthquakes
There is a risk of earthquakes – tremors are common. Serious earthquakes are less frequent but do happen.
The US Federal Emergency Management Agency website has advice about what to do before, during and after an earthquake.
Flooding and snow
From December to February, severe weather may cause flooding, particularly in northern Albania. Heavy snowfall in mountainous areas can lead to disruption to transport and services. Monitor local and international media for the latest information.
Wildfires
During especially hot and dry periods, there is a danger of forest fires. Intentionally causing a fire is illegal in Albania and you could be imprisoned.
Properly extinguish cigarette ends and do not leave any rubbish behind, particularly empty bottles, as these are known to start fires.
