This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Albania as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Albania to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Albania
For information on entering Albania, see Entry Requirements
The Albanian Government has extended the State of Emergency until 23 June 2020. If you’re in Albania, you should adhere to these instructions and follow the advice of the local authorities.
Updated restrictions on movement within Albania were introduced on 13 April, with a €16,000 fine for non-compliance.
Starting from Monday 27 April, cities which are considered by local authorities as “green areas” will allow citizens to move in their private vehicles without authorisation from 09:30 to 17:30 as long as they have no more than two passengers and no elderly people with them. The cities categorised as green areas are currently as follows: Mat, Diber, Klos, Bulqize, Librazhd, Prrenjas, Pogradec, Divjake, Memaliaj, Kelcyre, Tepelene, Himare, Gjirokaster, Permet, Libohove, Dropull, Finiq, Konispol and Sarande.
People outside of the “green areas” with permission to work from the Albanian State Police can do so between 5am and 5.30pm. You can travel to work in your private vehicle with a maximum of one co-worker allowed as a passenger between 5am and 8am, and return home between 4pm and 5.30pm.
Permission to go shopping is granted to one person per household for 2 hours per day, with authorisation from the Albanian Police.
Movement is not allowed from Fridays at 5.30pm until Mondays at 5am, except the elderly who are allowed to go out on Saturdays until 11am and mothers with children up to 10 years old who are allowed to go out on Sundays until 11am.
There is a ban on sitting in parks or public areas with a potential fine of up to 20,000 ALL.
Transport
Public transport country wide has been suspended until further notice. Inter-urban transport is suspended for the following national roads: Fier-Vlorë, Vlorë-Lushnjë, Shkodër-Lezhë and Elbasan-Korcë until further notice. Certain exemptions apply e.g. ambulances, and transport linked to food and pharmaceutical supplies or the media.
Starting Monday 27 April, taxis will be allowed to move within cities. Only one passenger will be allowed at a time except where passengers are from the same family or the passenger has special needs where they may be accompanied by another adult.
Public places and businesses
A large number of businesses were allowed to restart their activities as of 20 April under strict protective measures. Reopened businesses include those involved in the production industry, textile, sales of clothing, hotels, fishing, cosmetic stores (not beauty parlours), sales of electronic supplies, furniture sales, sales of jewellery and watches as well as activities organised by religious and political organisations except those which require gatherings of citizens.
Bars, restaurants, gyms and dental clinics remain closed until further notice.
All schools are closed until further notice.
Health
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Albania.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Albania, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
