The FCDO advises against all but essential travel to:
the whole of Albania based on the current assessment of COVID-19 risks.
Coronavirus: stay up to date
Find out how to return to the UK from Albania.
See how to stay safely as a visitor if you cannot return
See coronavirus travel advice for guidance on international travel
Sign up for email alerts for Albania travel advice
The Minister of Health suspended all direct flights between the UK and Albania on 22 December. The suspension was due to be lifted on 7 January. However, due to concerns about the newly discovered COVID variant, the suspension has been extended until 18 January. You should check with your airline before attempting to travel. If you arrive in Albania via a third country from the UK, you are expected to self-isolate for a period of 14 days. We are aware of situations where recent visitors to Albania have stayed less than 14 days and been fined when checking in at the airport to leave the country for breaking the self-isolation rules (fines can be in excess of £5,000). See Return to the UK
The British Embassy continue to carry out essential work including providing 24/7 consular assistance and support to British nationals in Albania. However, there is no access to the Embassy building for visitors at this time.
Over 120,000 British nationals visit Albania every year. Most visits are trouble-free.
There were small protests in central Tirana and other cities during the evenings of 9 and 10 December. The protests in Tirana turned violent and water cannon and tear gas were deployed by the police in response. Further protests are possible. You should avoid all demonstrations and follow the advice of the local authorities.
There is a general threat from terrorism. There may be increased security in place over the festive period, including at Christmas markets and other major events that might attract large crowds. You should remain vigilant and follow the advice of the local authorities.
From December to February severe weather may cause flooding, particularly in northern Albania. See Natural disasters
Public security is generally good, particularly in Tirana. Crime and violence does occur in some areas, but is not typically targeted at foreigners. Gun ownership is widespread. See Crime
When visiting hill towns on the northern border with Kosovo, you should exercise caution and heed warning signs about unexploded landmines and other unexploded ordnance. See Landmines
Terrorists are likely to try to carry out attacks in Albania. See Terrorism
High levels of air pollution can occur in Albania. See Health
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.
Take out comprehensive travel and medical insurance before you travel.
