Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Lebanon on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
Commercial flights are operating to and from Lebanon. Check with your travel company for the latest information.
Travellers to Lebanon are required to present a negative PCR test result taken within 96 hours prior to arrival in Lebanon at check-in.
From 28 April, Lebanon has banned passengers travelling from India and Brazil unless they have spent at least 14 days in a third country directly prior to entry to Lebanon. This applies to entry via Beirut airport and the land and maritime borders.
All travellers will also have to take a PCR test at Beirut International Airport upon arrival (which is provided at the airline’s expense) and then to quarantine for 72 hours, unless an exemption applies:
If you have previously tested positive for COVID-19 (i.e. can present proof of a positive test, dated more than 15 days prior to arrival in Lebanon), providing you now have a negative test
If you have an IgG positive antibody test showing a percentage of those antibodies in the blood above the required rate
For disabled passengers, those with special needs or autism, holding a medical report, which is approved on an individual basis by the Ministry of Public Health representatives at the airport. You should check with the Lebanese Embassy in the UK if you need more details.
Travellers will also be required to download and activate the “Covid Leb Track” mobile application on arrival to Lebanon, and to present the application to the authorities at Beirut International Airport at the time of the PCR test.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Lebanon.
Travel in Lebanon
From 5am on Thursday 13 May until 5am Saturday 15 May there will be a full lockdown in Lebanon. Restaurants and cafes will be closed and movement is prohibited. Supermarkets will remain open during the lockdown but you should check opening hours in advance. Taxis are running but you must have a permit to travel or a valid flight ticket for a journey to the airport. You must apply online via this platform to undertake certain activities such as going to the bank or going food shopping. Certain activities e.g. going to clothes shops, the hairdressers or veterinary clinics do not require this authorisation. Contact the Lebanese embassy for further details. Indoor restaurants, cafes and gyms are open between 6am and 9pm. From Saturday 15 May, restaurants with outdoor spaces will be allowed to operate until 12:30am. Restaurants and cafes are restricted to 50% capacity. Gyms are restricted to 30% capacity and cannot deliver exercise classes. Places of worship may open at 30% capacity for prayer. Supermarket, pharmacy and restaurant delivery services are operating 24/7. Hotels are also open 24/7.
Beirut International airport remains open. All passengers are required to have their tickets with them when transferring to and from the airport. Some exemptions to COVID-19 restrictions are applied to aid workers. For further clarification, aid workers should contact the United Nations for advice.
Taxis continue to operate during Ramadan. Given the curfew, you are advised to book taxis ahead of time. Taxis and private cars should have no more than four people in them (including the driver). Buses are allowed to operate with a maximum capacity of 50%.
Fabric masks covering the mouth and nose must be worn when outside the home and in vehicles (unless travelling alone).
Lebanese authorities may issue fines, impose road blocks, or imprison those violating these measures for up to three years. You should comply with all measures introduced by the Lebanese authorities and obey the instructions of the security forces. These measures may be changed at short notice.
Keep up to date with information from your tour operator, transport or accommodation provider on the impact on any existing travel plans.
Accommodation
Hotels and private rentals are available. You should check that accommodation is open and receiving guests before booking, and request information on the measures being taken to prevent the spread of COVID-19.
Healthcare in Lebanon
For contact details of English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers. If you think you have COVID-19 symptoms you should self-isolate. You should call the Lebanese Ministry of Health Coronavirus Hotline on1787 (from a local number) if you require further advice. The 24 hour number for those with COVID-19 who require hospitalisation is +961 (0) 1832 700. British nationals in Lebanon should comply with local restrictions and monitor local media for updates.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Lebanon. See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Lebanon
Wherever possible British nationals should aim to be vaccinated in the country where they live. As further information is available about the national vaccination programme, this page will be updated. Sign up to get email notifications.
The Lebanon authorities have issued a pre-registration form to register to receive the vaccine in Lebanon (you will need some assistance completing the form if you are a non-arabic speaker).
The Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) is the UK authority responsible for assessing the safety, quality and efficacy of vaccines. It has authorised the Pfizer/BioNTech, Oxford/AstraZeneca and Moderna vaccines for temporary supply and use in the UK. Find out more about MHRA approval for these vaccines.
British nationals living overseas should seek medical advice from their local healthcare provider in the country where they reside. Information about vaccines used in other national programmes, including regulatory status, should be available from the local authorities. This list of Stringent Regulatory Authorities recognised by the World Health Organisation may also be a useful source of additional information. Find out more about COVID-19 vaccines on the World Health Organisation COVID-19 vaccines page.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements. You should contact local authorities for information on testing facilities.
Further information
The Lebanese authorities have put in place a number of measures to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19). The detailed measures are changing on a regular basis. The latest Lebanese Government decisions and guidance can be found here (in Arabic).
