The information on this page covers the most common types of travel and reflects the UK government’s understanding of the rules currently in place. Unless otherwise stated, this information is for travellers using a full ‘British Citizen’ passport.
The authorities in Lebanon are responsible for setting and enforcing the rules for entry. If you’re unclear about any aspect of the entry requirements, or you need further reassurance, you’ll need to contact the Lebanese embassy in the UK.
You should also consider checking with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Entry rules in response to coronavirus (COVID-19)
Entry to Lebanon
Beirut’s Rafik Hariri international airport re-opened on 1 July 2020 and there are direct and indirect commercial flights operating daily.
Travellers should ensure they make all necessary preparations prior to travelling to Lebanon. These measures change frequently so you should check details regularly.
From 6 August, there are special rules for those travelling from the UK, Cyprus, Turkey, Brazil, UAE, Iraq, India, Malawi, Ethiopia, Zambia, Liberia, Kenya, Gambia and Sierra Leone, in addition to those applicable to all travellers. These are described below under ‘Self isolation requirements and tests after arrival’. Where hotel quarantine is required, you will need to prove you have a booking in order to be permitted to board the plane.
Certificate requirements and measures within Lebanon
If you’re travelling to Lebanon, you are required to take a PCR test at a laboratory certified by local authorities 96 hours before you travel, and to show the result – which must include a QR code – at check-in at your departure airport. If you do not have a negative PCR test result within this time frame and in an approved form (paper or email, not SMS) with a QR code, you will not be allowed to board your flight to Lebanon. You should check with your test provider beforehand that a QR code is provided with the test result.
Children under 12 are exempt from this requirement. The government has announced that you are exempt from this requirement if you have received both doses of the COVID-19 vaccine more than 15 days prior to your departure to Lebanon. However, you must have received the second dose of the vaccine in one of the following places: Lebanon, US, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, European countries (including the UK), Asian countries, Egypt, Algeria, Morocco or Tunisia. See ‘Demonstrating your COVID-19 vaccination status’ below.
You should not use the NHS testing service to get a test in order to facilitate your travel to another country. You should arrange to take a private test.
Any passenger who shows symptoms of illness including COVID-19 will not be allowed to board the aircraft.
Passengers who left Lebanon for a period not exceeding one week are not required to do a PCR test before departure, but will be subject to a PCR test in Lebanon.
Demonstrating your COVID-19 vaccination status
The Lebanese Directorate General of Civil Aviation have said that they will accept any official document that confirms vaccination status. You should check with your airline what proof is required.
Lebanon will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 recovery and vaccination record. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
Self-isolation requirements and tests after arrival
Travellers subject to supplementary COVID-19 measures
From 6 August, all travellers from the UK, Cyprus, Turkey, Brazil, UAE, Iraq, India, Malawi, Ethiopia, Zambia, Liberia, Kenya, Gambia and Sierra Leone to Lebanon will be subject to supplementary COVID-19 measures in addition to the ones already in place.
Hotel quarantine: Passengers must have a hotel booking for 4 days/3 nights on arrival in a government-approved hotel where they must complete 4 days of quarantine before taking a PCR test. A hotel booking is required to board the plane. The current list of approved hotels is below. Upon arrival, buses provided by the hotel will transport passengers from the airport to their hotel. You should contact the Lebanese embassy for more information.
Lancaster Plaza, Beirut
Lancaster Tamar Hotel, Hadat
Radisson Blue Martinez Hotel, Ain El Mraiseh
Monte Cassino Hotel, Jounieh
Mayflower Beirut, Hamra
Royal Tulip Hotel, Achrafieh
Hansa Hotels Worldwide, Sodeco
Gefina Rotana, Beirut
Raouche Arjaan by Rotana
Riviera Hotel, Beirut
Assaha Hotel, Airport road
The Parisian Hotel, Ain El Mraiseh
Le Royal Hotel, Dbayeh
Hotel Sunrise, Sahel Alma, Jounieh
Warwick Stone 55, Zalka Highway
Elite hotel & Spa, Raoucheh, Australia Street
Hotel Saint Jean, Zahle
Beirut Golden Plaza, Airport Road
Exemptions from hotel quarantine:
Passengers who can prove:
that they have received both doses of the COVID-19 vaccine at least 2 weeks before departure to Lebanon, or
that they have had and recovered from COVID-19 within 90 days prior to travel, or
that they have travelled out of Lebanon and returned within one week
are exempt both from taking a pre-departure PCR test and from hotel quarantine. Contact your airline and local Lebanese embassy to check what proof of vaccination is required.
Passengers who:
have received one dose of any COVID-19 vaccine at least 2 weeks before their departure to Lebanon, or
are transiting via Beirut airport to Syria through the land border, or
are under the age of 18 (accompanied or unaccompanied)
are exempt from hotel quarantine.
National and foreign diplomats and their families are exempt from quarantining in a hotel but must quarantine for 4 days at their accommodation.
PCR test on arrival: All passengers (apart from children under the age of 12 and UNIFIL) must take a PCR test at Beirut airport (provided at the airline’s expense) on arrival.
Travellers coming from any other country
All travellers (apart from children under the age of 12 and UNIFIL) to Lebanon coming from places other than the countries mentioned above, will be required to take a PCR test at Beirut International Airport upon arrival (which is provided at the airline’s expense) and then to quarantine for 72 hours.
Diplomats and their families, official delegations and UNFIL officers are exempt from the quarantine measures, as well as those who have received both doses of the COVID-19 vaccination, on the condition that they have proof of vaccination and take a PCR test on arrival as a precautionary measure.
All travellers
All travellers will also be required to download and activate the “Covid Leb Track” mobile application on arrival to Lebanon, and to present the application to the authorities at Beirut International Airport at the time of the PCR test.
The Lebanese government is keeping these measures under review and they may change at short notice. You must comply with any amended regulations for testing and self-isolation. You should check with your airline and the Embassy of Lebanon in the country you are travelling from before travel.
Transit passengers
There are no testing or additional COVID-19 related procedures required for transiting travellers. Passengers with a short transit time will be allowed to proceed directly to their gate, those with a longer transit time will have to wait at a designated gate where a cafeteria is available.
Regular entry requirements
Visas
British citizens can normally apply for a free single entry tourist or family visit visa on arrival. British Overseas Citizens and British Protected Persons will need to get a visa before travelling to Lebanon. Persons of Palestinian origin may also require a visa before travelling, or may be required to carry additional documentation with them when travelling. Entry requirements are subject to change, so you should check with the Lebanese Embassy before you travel.
Overstaying without the proper authority is a serious matter. You may be refused permission to leave until a fine has been paid.
Passport validity
Your passport should be valid for a minimum period of 3 months from the date of entry into Lebanon.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are accepted for entry, transit and exit from Lebanon. You can find more information on how to get an ETD on gov.uk.
If your passport is lost or stolen during your stay in Lebanon and you require an ETD to leave, you will need to visit the Public Prosecution in Adlieh building (central Beirut) to report the loss or theft. Once the police report is finalized, you will need to obtain an Exit visa prior to your departure in order to leave the country, either from the General Security’s Department of Passport and Immigration or from the General Security Office at the airport. You will need to show the police report and the ETD. You should factor the time this will take into any new travel plans.
Previous travel to Israel
If your passport contains an Israeli stamp you may be refused entry to Lebanon even if you hold a valid Lebanese visa.
Stop matches
Lebanese Immigration Authorities check all visitors’ names on arrival against a database of those wanted for, or convicted of, offences in Lebanon. If a name matches against an entry on the database the individual may be detained (or on occasion allowed entry upon surrender of their passport) until they can prove that the record does not relate to them. It’s often possible to do so by producing a copy of a birth certificate or other official documentation that allows parents’ names to be checked against the database. You should consider carrying this kind of supporting documentation.
