At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Coronavirus
Cases of coronavirus (COVID-19) have been confirmed in Lebanon. The Lebanese authorities have announced a number of measures and restrictions to limit the spread of the virus.
Travel and borders
On 15 March, the Lebanese authorities announced the closure of Lebanon’s borders, including Beirut Rafic Hariri Airport, effective from March. The decision will be reviewed on 29 March.
There will therefore be no routes in or out of Lebanon for British nationals from 15 March. You are therefore strongly advised to immediately review travel plans to Lebanon, and contact your nearest Lebanese Embassy, airline and/or travel agency for further details.
There are some exceptions to the closure, including for diplomats accredited in Lebanon and those working for international organisations. Those with Lebanese nationality, Lebanese residency or who are a member of a family of a Lebanese national should contact their nearest Lebanese Embassy.
Entry into Lebanon by travellers who have recently visited the UK (and several other countries) was suspended from 12 March. As a result, direct flights to and from the UK are also suspended. Those who have recently been in affected countries may, on arrival in Lebanon, be required to spend 14 days in self-isolation or turned around at the border, or be denied boarding a plane if transiting to Lebanon via a third country.
British nationals may be able to travel from Lebanon back to the UK (and other destinations) via third countries up to 18 March, before Beirut Rafic Hariri airport closes on 19 March. However, restrictions on flights from Lebanon, and travel restrictions in other countries, may prevent this. Changes to restrictions to entry and exit requirements in third countries, and flight options, are likely to change at short notice.
Public measures
The Lebanese authorities have also announced a lock-down in Lebanon. This will be reviewed on 29 March. This means that:
Individuals must remain at home. Public and private gatherings are banned
Public departments, municipalities, unions, universities, public and private schools, and nurseries are closed, with the exception of core institutions, including security agencies, hospitals, pharmacies and banks (though ATMs and electronic transfers are functioning)
All private companies and stores are closed, with the exception of bakeries, supermarkets, and haulage companies.
You should comply with local restrictions introduced by the Lebanese authorities.
Keep up to date with information from your tour operator, transport or accommodation provider on the impact on any existing travel plans. If you need further information about entry requirements, contact the local immigration authorities or the nearest Lebanese embassy.
Further information
If you’re in Lebanon and displaying symptoms of coronavirus (cough, a high temperature, shortness of breath) you should self-isolate, not go to a hospital, and telephone for medical advice. You can do this via your insurance/medical assistance company. Alternatively you can call the Lebanese Ministry of Health on +961 76592699.
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
You can find more information about cases in Lebanon on the TravelHealthPro country page.
Local medical care
Medical treatment in Lebanon can be expensive. Most hospitals are well equipped. Doctors are generally well qualified though nursing standards vary. The majority of medical staff speak French and English. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation.
Medical supplies may become increasingly scarce. You should therefore bring any medicines you need with you to Lebanon.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 112 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
