Lebanon’s people are diverse, with many different Muslim and Christian sects represented. You should respect local traditions, customs, laws and religions at all times and be aware of your actions to ensure they do not offend, especially during the holy month of Ramadan or if you intend to visit religious areas.
In many areas you will find dress codes more relaxed than in other countries of the region, but you should still dress modestly when visiting religious sites and when it’s clear that local people expect it.
Possession, use and trafficking of illegal drugs including small quantities are all serious offences in Lebanon. You can expect a prison sentence if you are caught.
Photography should be limited to tourist sites. Photographing military sites may result in your arrest. Flying drone cameras without permission is illegal.
The Lebanese Criminal Code includes a general provision concerning ‘every sexual act against nature’. Lebanese courts consider that this provision includes same sex relationships and same sex sexual activity. A criminal offence under this provision is punishable by a prison sentence of up to a year. See ‘Safety and Security’ for more information. See our information and advice page for the LGBT community before you travel. You can also view resources for LGBT people from the Lebanese Medical Association for Sexual Health.
Child abduction and travel bans
One of the most common requests for consular assistance in Lebanon is from British mothers seeking help in overturning travel bans placed on their children or themselves by their fathers or husbands. Lebanese family law is very different from UK law and particular care is needed if child custody becomes an issue.
If you have concerns about child custody you should seek advice before travelling to Lebanon about ‘travel bans’ that can be imposed by male heads of family. Even if you or your child holds a British passport you may be subject to Lebanese laws and regulations.
Any child travelling from Lebanon without their father (even if the mother is accompanying them) may need to provide proof that permission to travel has been given by the child’s father.
If you’re a British national involved in international parental child abductions or custody disputes, you should contact the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) for consular assistance. This leaflet on International Parental Child Abduction includes information on how the FCDO can help, and contact details. The FCDO strongly advises against attempting to remove your child yourself, as this may be considered abduction (or ‘re-abduction’). This may be illegal and can put your child at risk.
