!
Warning
FCDO advises against all travel to Lebanon.

This section has safety advice for regions of Lebanon. It only covers regions where FCDO has specific advice.
You should also read FCDO’s overall travel advice and safety and security advice.
Southern suburbs of Beirut
FCDO advises against all travel to the southern suburbs of Beirut due to a heightened risk of kidnap. The southern suburbs of Beirut includes:
the area south of the sports stadium and the Adnan Al Hakim road (which heads west from the stadium to the Beirut-Saida (Sidon) road), down to the airport
the neighbourhoods of Bir Hassan, Ghobeiry, Chiyah, Haret Hraik, Burj Al Barajneh, Mraije, Er Rouais and Laylake
Weapons are common in these areas and groups such as Hizballah have arms that are beyond state control. On 2 January, there was a missile explosion in Msharafieh in Beirut’s southern suburbs.
South of the Litani River
FCDO advises against all travel to the area south of the Litani River, which includes the main Naqoura-Tyre-Saida-Beirut highway and areas to the west of it. Since 7 October 2023 there have been frequent mortar and artillery exchanges and airstrikes in Lebanon, most of which have been in this area.
There is a UN peacekeeping presence in the area south of the Litani River due to tensions between Lebanon and Israel.   
See Conflict affecting Lebanon for further information.
Rachaiya, Hasbaiya and Khiam in the Beqaa Valley
FCDO advises against all travel to: 
the towns of Rachaiya, Hasbaiya, and Khiam in the Beqaa Valley
the area between these towns up to 5km from the Syrian border
Be vigilant to risks from criminal activity in these areas. Since 26 February, there have been several IDF airstrikes in the Beqaa Valley, including in the city of Baalbek. There is a risk of further strikes in the area.
The Rayak-Baalbek highway 
FCDO advises against all travel:
from the junction at Rayak along the highway to Baalbek
to the areas around the highway and towns along it, including Baalbek
to the area east of the highway up to 5km from the Syrian border and south of Nahlé town
Be vigilant to heightened risks from criminal activity. In 2023, the Lebanese Armed Forces conducted raids against narcotics factories in Baalbek, resulting in the death of numerous soldiers. Since 11 March, there have been IDF airstrikes close to the highway. There is a risk of further strikes in the area.
Palestinian refugee camps
FCDO advises against all travel to the 12 Palestinian refugee camps. See Palestinian refugee camp locations on the UN Relief and Works Agency website.
Palestinian refugee camps are volatile environments where the Lebanese state has limited capacity to impose law and order. There has been a long pattern of violent clashes, particularly in Ain el Hilweh camp near Saida in southern Lebanon.
Area around Ain el Hilweh Palestinian refugee camp in Saida
In addition to advising against travel to all Palestinian refugee camps, FCDO advises against all travel within 2km of Ain el Hilweh Palestinian refugee camp in Saida. In September 2023, Ain el Hilweh camp witnessed intense violence resulting in a number of casualties. There were reports of bullets reaching as far as Ghaziyeh Town (2km south). Tensions remain high and could escalate without warning.
The town of Hermel
FCDO advises against all travel to the town of Hermel and the surrounding towns of Arsal, Ras Baalbek, Qaa, Laboué and Nahlé.
Extremist groups have particularly operated in the city of Tripoli, Palestinian refugee camps, and in areas close to the Syrian border, including around Hermel and Aarsal.
Syrian border
FCDO advises against all travel within 5km of the border with Syria due to the ongoing conflict in Syria and the fragile security near border areas. 
Akkar district 
FCDO advises against all travel to the Akkar district, including between 5km from the Syrian border and the Aabdeh, Halba and Qoubaiyat highway, due to the unstable security situation.
Tripoli 
FCDO advises against all travel to the city of Tripoli due to the risk of violent clashes and counter-terrorism operations.
