The UK government is working closely with airlines, the Lebanese authorities and other governments to make sure options are available for British nationals to return to the UK as soon as possible. While Lebanon’s borders remain closed, the Lebanese Government is permitting a limited number of flights to operate on an exceptional basis to facilitate the repatriation of stranded travellers.
Flights
MEA flights to London on 11-19 June 2020
There may be a limited number of seats available on exceptional Middle East Airlines (MEA) commercial flights from Beirut to European destinations between 11-19 June, for British Nationals and their direct dependents wishing to return to the UK, including scheduled MEA flights to UK on 11 and 17 June.
You should contact MEA to check latest flight information, availability and to book your ticket. This can be done via the telephone on +961 1 629 999, and latest information on these exceptional flights is available on the MEA website. You should not contact the British Embassy to reserve your flight.
Lufthansa flight to Frankfurt on 17 June 2020
Lufthansa German Airlines are operating a commercial flight to Frankfurt, with short same day onward connection possibilities to London. Departing Beirut at 3:30am and arriving at Frankfurt at 6:45am local time. You should contact Lufthansa Services Center to check latest flight information, availability, and to book your ticket. This can be done via the telephone on +961 1 347 007 (9:30am – 4pm; Sunday – Thursday) and on +961 3 439 350 or +961 71 539 359 (9:30am – 4pm; only on Friday and Saturday). You should not contact the British Embassy to reserve your flight.
Once you have booked your ticket, you should send a scan or clear photograph of the photo page of your passport, along with a copy of your booking confirmation, to the Embassy using the following email address beirut.consular@fco.gov.uk. All travellers will need a valid travel document and the right to enter the United Kingdom.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK.
See Staying during coronavirus.
See more information and advice about staying where you are if you cannot return to the UK.
Future travel options
This travel advice will be updated when additional departure options become available. Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British Embassy on Twitter and Facebook.
Your journey home: re-entering the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK. You:
need to provide your journey and contact details up to 48 hours before you’re due to arrive in the UK
are not allowed to leave the place you’re staying for the first 14 days you’re in the UK except in very limited situations (known as ‘self-isolating’)
See also the list of people who are exempt from the border rules.
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) also provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the Embassy on +961 (0)1 960800.
The Embassy cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone. This page will be updated when departure options become available. To get the latest information, sign up for travel advice email alerts
Further information
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
