!
Warning
FCDO advises against all travel to parts of Lebanon.

Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. You should remain vigilant.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Lebanon
Terrorists are very likely to try to carry out attacks in Lebanon.
Islamist terrorist groups seek to target the Lebanese state, security services, and civilians, and intend to target foreigners in Lebanon. Groups within Lebanon, including Hizballah, are proscribed under the Terrorism Act 2000 and the Counter Terrorism (Sanctions) (EU Exit) Regulations 2019. Offences committed under the act – including funding and supporting proscribed organisations – may be liable to prosecution in the UK.  
Terrorist groups have particularly operated in:
Tripoli
Palestinian refugee camps
areas close to the Syrian border, including around Hermel and Aarsal
Southern suburbs of Beirut
Recent terrorist-related incidents include:
in 2022, the police uncovered a terrorist network who were planning 3 simultaneous attacks in the southern suburbs of Beirut
in 2021, the Lebanese Armed Forces dismantled a suspected ISIS cell accused of  killing of a retired intelligence officer planning further attacks
in 2020, following the arrest of an individual suspected of preparing to conduct terrorist attacks in Beirut, there were police and military casualties in 2 security incidents linked to the disruption of further terrorist cells
in 2020, 3 municipal police officers were shot and killed in Kaftoun, Koura in North Lebanon
In response to events in Kaftoun, counter-terrorism operations were conducted in North Lebanon in 2020 resulting in deaths and arrests of suspected terrorists. During one arrest operation, in Beddawi (also Beddaoui) close to Tripoli, 4 members of the Lebanese Armed Forces (LAF) were killed. A further 2 LAF soldiers were killed when their checkpoint was attacked in Arman. Lebanese security authorities are at a high state of alert and are conducting security operations across Lebanon. Be vigilant and follow the advice of Lebanese authorities. Avoid large crowds, demonstrations, political gatherings and using shared public transport.
There’s a heightened risk of terrorism against aviation. Additional security measures have been in place on flights departing from Lebanon to the UK since March 2017. You should co-operate fully with security officials.
If you notice or suspect a security incident is underway, leave the area immediately. Suspects have detonated explosives to avoid arrest. Keep clear of affected areas immediately after any attacks. Bystanders have been killed in a number of terrorist attacks in recent years.
Terrorist kidnap
There’s a threat of kidnapping in Lebanon. The Lebanese authorities have warned that foreigners could be targeted.
British nationals are seen as legitimate targets, including tourists, humanitarian aid workers, journalists and business travellers. If you are kidnapped, the reason for your presence is unlikely to protect you or secure your safe release.
The long-standing policy of the British Government is not to make substantive concessions to hostage takers. The British Government considers that paying ransoms and releasing prisoners builds the capability of terrorist groups and finances their activities. This can, in turn, increase the risk of further hostage-taking. The Terrorism Act (2000) makes payments to terrorists illegal.
Security situation
The security situation in Lebanon is volatile and can deteriorate quickly.
Violence is very likely to occur:
between security forces and protestors
between supporters of political groups
over scarce or subsidised resources
This often happens without warning, particularly at existing flashpoints. These confrontations have resulted in large numbers of casualties. Security forces may use tear gas and rubber bullets during clashes.
There were heavy clashes in the areas of Tayouneh, Chiyah and Ain el Roumanneh, within Beirut on 14 October 2021. These clashes involved exchanges of live fire and resulted in fatalities and injuries. Weapons are common in Lebanon and groups such as Hizballah have arms that are beyond state control. Arguments can quickly escalate into violence, including the use of weapons, typically firearms and bladed weapons. There have been several reports over the past year of firearms being used during arguments in bars.
Celebratory gunfire is illegal in Lebanon but remains widespread. Every year there are reported casualties.
As well as internal Lebanese issues, regional and international developments can have an impact on the local security situation. This includes tensions with Israel, which could escalate with little warning. Events in Syria and Iraq may also impact Lebanon. You are therefore advised to monitor the regional situation whilst in Lebanon.
Security advice for British nationals
You should:
avoid large crowds and political gatherings
take cover in a building and move away from windows in areas where there’s celebratory or other gunfire
be especially vigilant during periods of religious significance (including the holy month of Ramadan) and public holidays
monitor this travel advice and sign up for email updates
make sure your travel documents are correct and up-to-date, including a passport and visa if necessary, in case a sudden deterioration in the security situation means you need to leave Lebanon
If there are widespread disturbances or the security situation deteriorates, there may be limits to the assistance that the British Embassy Beirut can provide. Be prepared to shelter in place for several days, if the security situation requires it. This means having enough essential supplies, such as food, water and medicine, at the place where you are staying. Do not rely on the FCDO being able to evacuate you in an emergency.
Severe economic crisis
Lebanon is experiencing a prolonged and severe economic crisis. The situation is unpredictable and could deteriorate without warning.
The  economic situation may affect your ability to pay for goods and services. There is a very high rate of inflation. Banks and exchange houses can close for long periods during protests. While ATMs are generally stocked with Lebanese pounds, there may be limits on daily withdrawals so check with your bank before travelling. US dollars are accepted in most supermarkets, restaurants and other outlets. However, it is very difficult to access US dollars locally. Many companies no longer accept credit debit cards so make sure you have enough cash for your stay.
Shortages
Medicine shortages
Many hospitals and other medical services are affected by fuel shortages. See healthcare facilities in Lebanon.
Basic commodities (fuel, medicines, food) have become increasingly scarce due to the economic crisis. Make sure you have supplies of any medicines you need with you in Lebanon. The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription medication, carry a medical certificate confirming that the medication has been prescribed for a medical condition.
Fuel shortages
Petrol and diesel can be difficult to access, with restrictions of supply at short notice. There are frequent, prolonged closures of fuel stations. Plan ahead and ensure you have enough fuel in your car before travelling. Arguments at fuel stations have sometimes become violent and involved weapons. Always make sure your vehicle is positioned to be able to leave a fuel queue quickly if tensions rise.
Beirut Rafik Hariri International Airport is sometimes affected by fuel shortages, which can cause air conditioning or lighting to be turned off in the terminal buildings.  
Power cuts
Lebanon’s power plants are only producing limited electricity for the national grid. This has led to prolonged power cuts across the country, with an impact on services, such as transport, internet, water and waste collection, and shops, cafes and restaurants. Check before travelling to a business, hotel or restaurant in case they are closed due to fuel shortages. Have a torch to hand at night and plan how you would leave your accommodation in the dark.
Border with Israel
The FCDO advises against all travel to the area south of the Litani River, which includes the main Naqoura-Tyre-Saida-Beirut highway and areas to the west of it.
There are ongoing mortar, and artillery exchange and airstrikes in South Lebanon, on the border with Israel. Tensions are high and events could escalate with little warning.
Political situation
There is a high level of tension in Lebanon due to the economic and political situation. Protests can occur without warning and may become violent. They have centred on the main cities of Beirut, Tripoli and Saida, but have occurred at other locations and may take place nationwide.
You should:
exercise a high degree of caution
monitor local media for developments
avoid areas where demonstrations may be held, or where there are large gatherings of people
Keep up to date with developments by getting email updates when this travel advice is updated.
Crime
Protecting your belongings
There is moderate risk to tourists from petty or violent crime. However, crime has increased due to the declining economic situation. Theft, vehicle theft and robbery in particular have risen. Take sensible precautions to protect yourself and your belongings:
consider your route and vary daily routines
hide expensive-looking jewellery, which could draw unwanted attention
avoid carrying large amounts of cash in public
be aware of your surroundings when using ATMs
Members of the public have held up banks across Lebanon in order to access their savings, using both real and replica firearms. This may well continue. Be alert when in or near banks.
Sexual assault
There has been an increase in reported incidents of sexual harassment and assault in public areas, including while walking in Beirut. Consider whether it is safe to walk alone, particularly in less busy areas. Due to the lack of electricity, streetlights often do not work, so streets are very dark at night. Consider taking a torch with you at night and make sure your phone is charged in case of an emergency.
Drug smuggling and car theft
Criminal gangs involved in drug cultivation and smuggling operate in parts of the Beqaa Valley, especially northern Beqaa. Car theft gangs are prevalent and may carry out armed vehicle theft, particularly along sections of the international highway towards Baalbek. Vehicle thefts (including 4x4s) have increased significantly and are often targeted . Other armed crimes, such as robbery and kidnap, can occur in these areas. There are also frequent armed clashes between gangs and the security forces.
Laws and cultural differences
Ramadan
Ramadan is a holy month for Muslims. The dates vary by year and country. In Lebanon, Ramadan in 2024 will probably run from  9 March 2024 to 8 April 2024. During this time, be aware of:
eating, drinking, smoking or chewing gum in public in the daytime, including in your car
playing loud music or dance
swearing in public
Get more advice when you arrive from your tour guide, hotel or business contacts.
You should also:
check opening hours of shops and restaurants
follow local dress codes – clothing that does not meet local dress codes may cause more offence at this time
Diversity
Lebanon’s people are diverse, with many different Muslim and Christian sects represented. You should respect local traditions, customs, laws and religions at all times and make sure your actions do not offend.
Dress code
In many areas you will find dress codes more relaxed than in other countries of the region, but you should still dress modestly when visiting religious sites.
Illegal drugs and prison sentences
Possessing, using and trafficking illegal drugs (including small quantities) are all serious offences, punishable with prison sentences.
Using cameras and drones in secure areas
Only take photographs in tourist sites. You could be arrested for photographing military sites. Flying drone cameras without permission is illegal.
LGBT+ travellers
The Lebanese Criminal Code includes a general provision concerning ‘every sexual act against nature’. Lebanese courts consider that this includes homosexuality. A criminal offence under this provision is punishable by a prison sentence of up to a year. The Lebanese Medical Association for Sexual Health has resources for LGBT+ people.
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Child abduction and travel bans
If you have concerns about child custody, get legal advice   before travelling to Lebanon about ‘travel bans’ that can be imposed by male heads of family. Even if you or your child holds a British passport you may be subject to Lebanese laws and regulations.
In Lebanon a father or husband can legally arrange for a travel ban to be placed on their wife or children. If a travel ban is placed on you or your children, you will not be able to travel. If that does happen a parent should seek legal assistance to check if the travel ban can be lifted.
Lebanese family law is very different from UK law and particular care is needed if child custody becomes an issue.
If you’re a British national involved in international parental child abductions or custody disputes, contact the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) for assistance or call +44(0)2070085000. FCDO has information on international parental child abduction, including how we can help. FCDO strongly advises against attempting to move your child yourself. This may be considered abduction (or ‘re-abduction’). This may be illegal and can put your child at risk.
Transport risks
Shared taxis and unofficial taxis
Do not use shared taxis or taxis hailed on the street.
Only use taxis:
from recognised companies that use vetted drivers
recognised by hotels, which are safe and well-maintained
There have been armed robberies and physical attacks against passengers in shared taxis (known locally as service taxis) with passengers being attacked by either the driver or other passengers.
In 2017, the Lebanese Interior Minister advised people in Lebanon not to use Uber taxis.  
Road travel
You need either a 1968 international driving permit (IDP) or a UK driving licence to drive in Lebanon. The 1949 IDP is not accepted anymore. You cannot buy an IDP outside the UK, so get one before you travel. You can buy an IDP in person from some UK post offices – find your nearest post office branch that offers this service.
If you are planning to drive in Lebanon, see information on driving abroad.
Driving standards are poor and the accident rate is high. Traffic lights are often switched off and not always observed. It may be better to hire a car with a driver if you’re inexperienced. You must wear a seat belt (if fitted). Avoid travelling at night outside towns if possible. Vehicles with diesel engines are banned.
Licences and permits
Carry ID with you at all times and be prepared to stop at checkpoints to show your papers. The army has set up checkpoints on major and minor roads.
Temporary local licences are also available, but they take longer to get and are more expensive than an IDP.
Roadblocks
Protests and roadblocks may restrict travel at short notice. Major roads in and out of Beirut and across the country, including the roads to and from Beirut Rafik Hariri International Airport, have become blocked at short notice. If you’re travelling to or from the airport, check your flight status before leaving and allow extra time for your journey. If roads from the airport are blocked, wait there until the authorities confirm access roads are open.
Landmines
Landmines and other unexploded bombs are present in Lebanon and are not always clearly marked. Use only well-travelled tracks and do not stray from their edges. Avoid remote abandoned properties. Use local guides and seek local knowledge if you are unsure.
Extreme weather and natural disasters
Forest fires
There is a heightened risk of forest fires in Lebanon, particularly during summer. Forest fires are highly dangerous and unpredictable. Take care when visiting or driving through woodland areas. The authorities may evacuate areas and close roads for safety.
If you are travelling in Lebanon, familiarise yourself with local safety and emergency procedures, stay vigilant, and follow the advice of local authorities.
For information on the risk of forest fires, visit the Disaster Risk Management website, Facebook page and Twitter account.
If you see a forest fire, call the emergency services on 112 (for the fire service, call 175).
Earthquakes
Lebanon is in an earthquake zone, but there have been no damaging tremors in recent years. The US Federal Emergency Management Agency has advice about what to do before, during and after an earthquake.
Lebanon experienced strong aftershocks from an earthquake in Turkey in February 2023. There is a risk of further aftershocks.
