This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Lebanon as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Lebanon to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Lebanon
There are local travel restrictions in place in Lebanon.
For information on entering Lebanon, see Entry Requirements.
Public measures
The Lebanese authorities have put in place a number of measures to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
On 17 May 2020, the Government announced that, effective from 18 May, COVID 19 restrictions include:
Public and larger gatherings are banned.
There should be no movement from 1900 to 0500.
Fabric masks covering the mouth and nose must be worn when outside the home.
Individuals must maintain a safe distance from one another and avoid crowded areas.
Those over the age of 65 years old are advised to stay home and not go out unless absolutely necessary.
Traffic is banned between 1900 and 0500. Vehicles of all kinds (including buses) with license plates ending in 1,3,5,7 or 9 are only permitted to move on Mondays, Wednesdays, Fridays and Sundays. Vehicles with license plates ending in 0,2,4,6 or 8 are only permitted to move on Tuesdays, Thursdays, Saturdays and Sundays. There are exemptions for military and security forces, the Red Cross, diplomatic and specific health and food industry related vehicles.
Vehicles should limit passenger numbers to a third of total capacity.
There may be difficulties accessing taxis.
Public departments can open between their official opening hours, with capacity at Ministers’ discretion above 50 percent. Banks (ATMs and electronic transfers are functioning) may open in accordance with a decision from the Association of Banks in Lebanon.
Municipalities, unions, universities, public and private schools are closed, with the exception of core institutions, including security agencies, hospitals, and pharmacies. Some businesses and public areas, such as cinemas, public parks and beaches, remain closed.
Lebanese authorities may issue fines, impose road blocks, or imprison those violating these restrictions for up to three years. You should comply with all local restrictions introduced by the Lebanese authorities and obey instructions of the security forces. These restrictions may be changed at short notice.
Keep up to date with information from your tour operator, transport or accommodation provider on the impact on any existing travel plans. If you need further information about entry requirements, contact the local immigration authorities or the nearest Lebanese embassy.
Visas
If you are concerned about your visa expiring please contact General Security on 1717 or +961 (0) 1424668 for advice. General Security are currently extending visas and not issuing fines for visas that have expired since Covid-19 restrictions have been introduced.
Health
For contact details of English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Lebanon.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
You can call the Lebanese Ministry of Health Coronavirus Hotline on +961 1 5494459. British nationals in Lebanon should comply with local restrictions and monitor local media for updates.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Lebanon, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, you should contact your local British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephones numbers are available 24/7.
