Terrorists are very likely to try to carry out attacks in Lebanon. Islamist extremist groups will seek to target the Lebanese state, security services, and civilians, and have the intent to target foreigners inside Lebanon.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out more about the global threat from terrorism.
Attacks could take place in areas visited by foreigners, in Beirut and elsewhere, including hotels, restaurants and bars, markets, tourist and religious sites, large outdoor events, western-style shopping centres and supermarket chains. You should be particularly vigilant in these areas and follow any specific advice of the local security authorities.
There is also currently a heightened threat of terrorist attack globally against UK interests and British nationals specifically, from groups or individuals motivated by the conflict in Iraq and Syria.
Extremist groups have in particular been known to operate within the city of Tripoli, Palestinian refugee camps and in areas close to the Syrian border - including around Hermel and Aarsal.
Politically motivated terrorist attacks also remain likely. A number of such attacks have taken place in the southern suburbs of Beirut.
Recent terrorist-related incidents include:
on 23 February 2022, the Interior Ministry announced that the police uncovered a terrorist network who were planning three simultaneous attack in the southern suburbs of Beirut.
on 21 September 2021, the Lebanese armed forces announced that its forces had dismantled a cell supporting ISIS, which it says was behind the killing of a retired intelligence officer in August and was planning further attacks.
on 18 August 2020, following the arrest of an individual suspected of preparing to conduct terrorist attacks in Beirut, there were police and military casualties in two security incidents linked to the disruption of further terrorist cells.
on 21 August 2020, 3 municipal police officers were shot and killed in Kaftoun, Koura in the north of the country.
Subsequently, a series of counter-terrorism operations were conducted in the North of Lebanon until 26 September 2020, resulting in a number of deaths and arrests of suspected terrorists. During one of these arrest operations, which took place in Beddawi (also Beddaoui) close to Tripoli, 4 members of the Lebanese Armed Forces were killed. A further two LAF soldiers were killed when their check point was attacked in Arman. Investigations continue. Lebanese security authorities are at a high state of alert and are conducting security operations across Lebanon. You should be vigilant at all times and follow the advice of the Lebanese authorities. Avoid large crowds, demonstrations, political gatherings and the use of shared public transport.
If you notice or suspect a security incident is underway, you should immediately leave the area. Suspects have detonated explosions to avoid arrest. Keep clear of affected areas in the immediate aftermath of any attacks. Bystanders have been killed in a number of terrorist attacks in recent years.
Monitor media reports and keep up to date with travel advice. Remain alert to both regional tensions given Lebanon’s links and proximity to Syria, and to the potential for sectarian attacks.
Kidnap
There’s a threat of kidnapping in Lebanon. The Lebanese authorities have warned that foreigners, including westerners could be targeted by kidnappers and other militant groups. Criminal kidnappings have occurred in the Beqaa Valley, the Syrian border regions and Beirut, but could take place anywhere in Lebanon.
Terrorist kidnappings are also possible and Daesh and other terrorist groups view those engaged in humanitarian aid work or journalism as legitimate targets.
The long-standing policy of the British Government is not to make substantive concessions to hostage takers. The British Government considers that paying ransoms and releasing prisoners builds the capability of terrorist groups and finances their activities. This can, in turn, increase the risk of further hostage-taking. The Terrorism Act (2000) makes payments to terrorists illegal.
