Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Moldova on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
As Moldovan airspace in closed until 4 March, all commercial flights to and from UK have been suspended. The nearest and safest airport you can fly to is Iasi, Romania, which is 45km from the Ungheni District of the Republic of Moldova. Land Borders Checkpoints with Romania are fully operational. Check with your travel company or airline for the latest information.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do before and when you arrive in Moldova.
Returning to the UK
Travelling from and returning to the UK
Check what you must do to travel abroad and return to England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
If you plan to pass through another country to return to the UK, check the travel advice for the country you’re transiting. If you will pass through a red list country, book your hotel quarantine package before travelling to the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements. You should contact local authorities for information on testing facilities.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Moldova
There are no local travel restrictions in place in Moldova.
Accommodation
Most hotels are open with no restrictive measures in place.
Public places and services
Markets, restaurants and bars are operating usual hours, including food delivery services. Malls and commercial centres are operating usual working hours (until 10pm). Schooling is both online and in-person. Nightclubs are closed. Restaurants, cafes, theatres, cinemas and concert halls are open, but in some cases access will only be permitted upon presentation, either on paper or electronically, of one of the following documents (for persons over the age of 18):
a COVID-19 vaccination certificate evidencing full vaccination;
a negative PCR test result taken no more than 72 hours before the event;
a negative rapid antigen test result taken no more than 48 hours before the event;
confirmation of the presence of COVlD-19 antibodies (serological antibodies test).The document is valid for a period of 90 days from the date of the test.
You must also carry one form of photo identification as well as your COVID-19 document such as a passport or driving license.
You must wear a mask outside at mass gatherings, and in enclosed spaces such as supermarkets, restaurants, bars and on public transport. Officials have the authority to issue fines for non-compliance. Social distancing of 1m should be observed.
Healthcare in Moldova
If you think you have COVID-19 you should see a medical practitioner and self-isolate along with the members of your household. For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Moldova
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Moldova
We will update this page when the Government of Moldova announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Moldova national vaccine programme started in March 2021 and is using the AstraZeneca, Pfizer-BioNTech, Moderna, Sputnik V, Sinovac and Sinopharm vaccines. Booster vaccinations started in November 2021. Vaccinations under the national programme are only available to foreign nationals with residence or long-term work permits. Further information on the vaccination programme is available on the Government of Moldova Ministry of Health website and on the national vaccination platform.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in Moldova, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, are available from local authorities.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
