This page has information on travelling to Moldova. Check what you must do to return to the UK.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport from the UK, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Moldova set and enforce entry rules.
In light of the Russian invasion of Ukraine, Moldovan airspace is closed until 25 April. The closest airport from which you can get a plane to London is Iasi (Romania), 150 km from Chisinau.
All travellers
All travellers should familiarise themselves with the entry rules for Moldova before travel.
Entering Moldova from Ukraine
If you enter Moldova from Ukraine, you are exempted from all COVID-19 related documentation and checks. Border Police will permit you to cross the Ukrainian-Moldovan checkpoint with a national ID card or a birth certificate. If you are in Ukraine en route to Moldova, you should Register your presence as currently in Ukraine, ahead of arriving in Moldova.
Entering Moldova from all other countries
From 17 January 2022 all arrivals to Moldova must present one of the following documents to be exempt from the requirement to self-isolate:
proof that you have received both doses of an approved vaccination. The second dose must have been administered at least 14 days before your date of arrival. Current rules do not specify whether electronic documents are acceptable as proof, but you are recommended to have your vaccination certificate in paper form
negative result of a PCR test taken no more than 72 hours before your time of arrival
negative result of a rapid antigen test taken no more than 48 hours before your time of arrival
confirmation of the presence of COVID-19 antibodies (serological test) that is valid for a period of 90 days from the date of the test
All documents are accepted in the following languages: English, Romanian, Russian, French, Italian and German.
See the Exemptions section for details of other groups who are exempt from the self-isolation requirement.
IMPORTANT: You are strongly advised against entering Moldova without any COVID-19 documentation (e.g. vaccination certificate, negative PCR test, lateral flow test or similar).
Self-isolation requirement
If you don’t have one of the documents listed above, you must complete an online epidemiological form that declares information about your state of health (relevant to COVID-19) and confirm that you will self-isolate for 14 days, unless you are exempt.
The online epidemiological form should be completed within 72 hours before your scheduled departure to Moldova.
Arrivals who are in self-isolation may take a PCR test or a rapid antigen test on the 7th day of their visit, and will not have to continue self-isolating if the test is negative.
If you’re fully vaccinated
If you’re fully vaccinated, you can enter Moldova without needing to provide a negative test or self-isolate.
You will need to present proof that you have received both doses of an approved vaccination. Current rules do not specify whether electronic documents are acceptable as proof, but it is recommended that you have your vaccination certificate in paper form.
Proof of vaccination status
Moldova accepts the UK’s proof of COVID-19 recovery and vaccination record and proof of COVID-19 vaccination issued in the Crown Dependencies. Your final vaccine dose must have been administered at least 14 days before your date of arrival. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
If you’re not fully vaccinated
If you’re not fully vaccinated, you’ll need to present proof of a negative PCR test result, taken no more than 72 hours before your time of arrival, or a negative rapid antigen test result, taken no more than 48 hours before your time of arrival. See information on getting a test before entry.
If you’ve had COVID-19 in the past year
If you’ve tested positive for COVID-19 in the past year, you’ll need to present confirmation of the presence of COVID-19 antibodies (serological test) that is valid for a period of 90 days from the date of the test.
You can use the UK’s proof of COVID-19 recovery record to demonstrate proof of COVID-19 recovery when entering Moldova.
Children and young people
Children up to the age of 12 are fully exempt from the requirement to self-isolate on arrival to Moldova.
If you’re transiting through Moldova
If you are transiting through Moldova and are not spending more than 24 hours in the country, you are exempt from the requirement to self-isolate.
Exemptions
The following groups are exempt from the self-isolation requirement:
children up to the age of 12
people in transit, who are not spending more than 24 hours after their entrance was recorded in Moldova
students coming for studies, exams, or academic contests upon presenting confirmation papers
crew and service personnel of aircraft, ships, and trains
persons summoned by Moldovan law enforcement institutions
persons traveling for health reasons, including the attendant
personnel involved in providing humanitarian aid
diplomatic passport holders and their family members accredited to the Republic of Moldova and International UN staff
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
You should check with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Passport validity
Your passport should be valid for at least 3 months and have at least one unused page.
Visas
Visas are no longer required to enter Moldova if your stay is under 90 days. For all other types of travel, contact the Embassy of the Republic of Moldova in London. See below for information on entry into Moldova.
The Moldovan authorities strictly enforce penalties (including deportation) against foreign visitors who overstay the terms of their visas. As a visitor you are allowed to spend no more than 90 days in any six months period in Moldova. At any official point of entry, your arrival date will be registered automatically. Please see below for details of entry through Transnistria.
Residence and/or work permits are required for stays over 90 days. Immigration, residence, and work permits usually need to be extended annually, but can be issued for up to five years. Alternatively, you must regularise your stay by applying for a residence or work visa.
Border crossings with Ukraine and Romania
You should check for updates on border crossings with Ukraine and Romania on the Moldovan Border Police website.
Entry into Moldova via Transnistria
The FCDO advise against all travel to Transnistria.
From midnight local time on 28 February, all checkpoints between Ukraine and the Transnistria region will temporarily close. We do not know when they will reopen. All other border crossings into Moldova remain open.
The train service between Odessa and Chisinau is suspended until further notice. If you have recently arrived in Moldova via Transnistria you should regularise your stay at the Bureau for Migration & Asylum in Chisinau (124 Stefan cel Mare Bulevard) within 3 days of your arrival. Alternatively, you should go to the local offices of the Bureau for Migration and Asylum located in: Hîrbovăț in Anenii Noi; Hajumus in Căușeni; Pîrîta in Dubăsari, Criuleni in Criuleni, Rezina in Rezina and Sărătăuac în Florești.
To register your stay you must present the following documents:
your passport
proof of travel (for example a Green Card if you drive a vehicle into Moldova; air/ bus/train ticket)
Failure to register may result in fines and difficulties when leaving Moldova.
Entry into Moldova via Ukraine
If you enter Moldova overland from Ukraine do so at one of the internationally recognised border crossing points between Moldova (excluding the Transnistria segment) and Ukraine in the north and south of the country.
Entry into Transnistria
The FCDO advise against all travel to Transnistria. Checkpoints between Ukraine and the Transnistria region will close on 28 February. We do not know when they will reopen.
There are no ‘immigration controls’ in place on the internal boundary between the Transnistria region and Moldova and entry stamps won’t be placed into passports. But on entering Transnistria you will be required to fill in 2 copies of a migration card, one of which should be retained and produced on exit. You may also be questioned on the aim of your visit, duration and where you will stay.
You should check ahead that the relevant border crossings are open and roads on the Ukrainian side are fully operational. This is particularly important around Transnistria which is outside the control of the Moldovan authorities.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are accepted for entry, airside transit and exit from Moldova.
Returning to the UK
Check what you must do to return to the UK.
