At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Coronavirus
The Moldovan authorities have announced restrictive measures in an attempt to contain the spread of Covid-19. As a part of those measures it has announced that from 15th March, direct flights from France Italy and Spain will be suspended. From midnight on 15th/16th March it will suspend all other direct flights from European countries ( UK, Austria, Belgium, Czech Republic, Cyprus, Germany, Ireland, Poland, Portugal and Romania). Air carriers are prohibited from boarding non-Moldovan citizens or people of other nationalities who are not legally resident in Moldova on all flights to the country. You are advised to contact your travel operator and air carrier before travelling to Moldova. .
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TraveHealthPro website.
You can find more information about cases in Moldova on the TravelHealthPro country page.
Medical treatment
The standard of medical care in Moldova is below that available in the UK and English is not widely spoken. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation.
Health risks
Drink only bottled water.
In the 2010 Report on the Global AIDS Epidemic the UNAIDS/WHO Working Group estimated that around 12,000 adults aged 15 or over in Moldova were living with HIV; the prevalence percentage was estimated at around 0.4% of the adult population compared to the prevalence rate in adults in the UK of around 0.2%. You should exercise normal precautions to avoid exposure to HIV/AIDS.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 903 and ask for an ambulance, but be aware that if you do not speak Russian or Romanian you may encounter difficulties. You should inform your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
