Coronavirus guidance is being updated.
Read the Prime Minister’s statement for the latest information.

The Moldovan government has announced that scheduled commercial flights to the UK will resume on 15 June.There are currently no scheduled commercial flights available to the UK. Occasional ad hoc charter flights to UK and other European countries are being organised by the Moldovan authorities.
Future travel options
Once such flights are confirmed by the Moldovan government and bookings are possible, the Embassy will publicise information about them on its Facebook page and via the Twitter account of Her Majesty’s Ambassador.
You should be aware that these flights can be scheduled at short notice and are subject to last minute changes. Most ad hoc charters have been operated by Air Moldova, Wizz Air and Flyone. As well as following the Embassy’s social media channels, mentioned above, you should consult Air Moldova, Wizz Air and Flyone for information and to make any bookings on their flights.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK.
For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Travel via Romania
You may wish to consider travelling to the UK via Romania. However, you should be aware that the Romanian government has banned flights to several countries, including UK, until further notice. Flights to a small number of European destinations are still operating.
If you plan to take a flight from Romania, or to travel overland through Romania and from there onwards to UK, you should consult our travel advice for Romania and for all other countries on your route, before setting off. To inform yourself of border crossing restrictions imposed by the Moldovan and Romanian governments, check the Moldovan Border Police website, and our travel advice for Romania.
Your journey home: re-entering the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK. You:
need to provide your journey and contact details up to 48 hours before you’re due to arrive in the UK
are not allowed to leave the place you’re staying for the first 14 days you’re in the UK except in very limited situations (known as ‘self-isolating’)
See also the list of people who are exempt from the border rules.
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) also provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
If you cannot leave Moldova
If you cannot leave Moldova at this time, see advice on staying in Moldova during coronavirus.
See more information and advice about staying where you are if you cannot return to the UK.
