!
Warning
FCDO advises against all travel to parts of Moldova.

Security situation in Ukraine
If you’re travelling to Moldova, FCDO strongly advises you to also read Ukraine travel advice.
Transnistria
FCDO advises against all travel to Transnistria.
Moldova declared a state of emergency on 24 February 2022. This ended on 30 December 2023, with no further extension. 
Read more about the risks in Transnistria.
Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Moldova
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Moldova, attacks cannot be ruled out.
Political situation
Since autumn 2022 there have been regular political demonstrations in central Chisinau, and occasionally elsewhere. These are likely to continue. They have been small-scale and generally peaceful and well-policed. However, there have been organised attempts by certain groups to use these demonstrations as a cover for causing disturbances. Stay away from all political demonstrations.
Humanitarian support workers
The UK supports the multilateral humanitarian effort led by the UN Refugee Agency (UNHCR) and offers practical bilateral support. If you’re considering providing humanitarian support to Ukrainians in Moldova, check information on existing ways to assist on the GOV.UK Russian invasion of Ukraine page and the Moldovan government’s information (largely in Romanian and Russian). This is particularly important if you’re considering bringing in humanitarian supplies (information in Romanian and Russian only).
Crime
Protecting yourself and your belongings
Be alert to:
street crime and petty theft, particularly in Chisinau
pickpockets and bag snatchers in crowded areas
credit card and ATM fraud – keep sight of the card when paying a bill
Keep your valuables and passport in a safe place, such as a hotel safe. Carry a copy of your passport’s photo page for identification.
Streets, pavements and public paths are not well-maintained or well-lit, including in Chisinau and other cities. Consider carrying a torch.
Discrimination
Although most visitors experience no difficulties, some Asian and Afro-Caribbean visitors have reported being stared at, verbally abused, assaulted, denied entrance into some clubs and restaurants, and police harassment.
Laws and cultural differences
Police checks and ID
There are frequent police checks and police officers have the legal right to ask for ID on the street. Always carry a copy of the photo page of your passport with you.
Exporting art and antiques
You must get permission from the Moldovan Department of Monuments to take any artwork or antiques out of the country. If you do not, customs officials could seize the art or antiques and you could face criminal charges.
Using cameras
Avoid taking photos of military and government facilities, including airports and power stations. You’re likely to be detained for questioning or arrested if you’re caught.
LGBT+ travellers
Same-sex sexual activity is not illegal in Moldova, but the Moldovan government does not formally recognise same-sex partners. There is an active social and lobbying group on gay and lesbian issues in Chisinau. Public attitudes are less tolerant and open displays of affection can receive unwanted attention. Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Surrogacy
Child surrogacy is strictly prohibited throughout Moldova. Comply with local laws and note that the British Embassy will not be able to provide support.
Illegal drugs and prison sentences
There is zero tolerance for possession or supply of illegal drugs. If you have even small quantities of drugs (class A, B or C) you could get a long prison term as well as heavy fines.
Money
You may not always be able to pay by card, particularly outside the capital, Chisinau.
The most widely accepted foreign currencies are US dollars and euros. Carry some euros in cash.   
Notes should be in perfect condition, or they may not be accepted. It’s not always easy to exchange British pounds for local currency.
ATMs in Transnistrian banks will not accept cards from non-Transnistrian banks. The currency used in Transnistria is the Transnistrian ruble. Outside Transnistria, you cannot exchange Moldovan lei or other currencies into rubles, or rubles into other currencies. Attempting to pay in Transnistria in currencies other than the ruble is considered illegal by the self-declared authorities.
Transport risks
Road travel 
If you’re planning to drive a hire car or a UK vehicle, see information on driving abroad and check the rules of the road in RAC’s Moldova guide. The guide lists driving regulations and other legal requirements.
You can use a UK photocard driving licence to drive in Moldova. If you still have a paper driving licence, you may need to update it to a photocard licence or get the correct version of the international driving permit (IDP) as well.  
You must declare your vehicle to customs if you enter Moldova by car. You can take vehicles into Moldova without paying import taxes for up to 90 days in a 365-day period. The British Embassy cannot help you with bringing vehicles into Moldova. Contact the Moldovan Embassy in the UK.
If you’re driving a private vehicle owned by someone else, you need permission from the owner, translated and notarised.
Road conditions and driving standards
Driving standards are poor and roads are of variable quality. There are many traffic accidents, including fatal ones. Avoid driving outside urban areas, particularly at night.
Drink-driving    
Drink-driving is a serious offence in Moldova. If you are tested and found to have more than a third of England’s legal limit of alcohol in your system, you may get a fine and possible imprisonment. 
Taxis
Official-looking taxis can be unlicensed. Do not share taxis with strangers or flag down unofficial taxis. If there is no meter, negotiate a price before getting into a taxi. Where possible, ask your hotel to order you a taxi or give you the number of a reputable company.
Extreme weather and natural disasters 
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards.
Earthquakes
Moldova has insignificant earth tremors throughout the year. The last significant earthquake occurred in 1986, causing deaths and damage to buildings.   
The US Federal Emergency Management Agency website has advice about what to do before, during and after an earthquake.
