

The FCDO advises against all travel to Transnistria
There is widespread military activity in Ukraine, including in areas close to some Moldovan borders. Transnistria is outside the control of the Moldovan authorities. Our ability to offer consular support within this region is extremely limited, and in the event of military action on/near the border with Ukraine, would be further reduced. From 28 February, all checkpoints between Ukraine and the Transnistria region have temporarily closed. All other border crossings into Moldova remain open. See Safety and security
On 7 June, the Transnistrian de facto parliament gave greater powers for prosecutions and pre-trial detentions against those regarded as “extremists”. The de facto authorities interpret “extremism” in a way that includes many activities that British nationals would consider legitimate, including moderate protest or freedom of expression. The FCDO advises against all travel to Transnistria.
Before you travel, check the ‘Entry requirements’ section for Moldova’s current entry requirements. These may change with little warning. Monitor this advice for the latest updates and stay in contact with your travel provider.
If you plan to pass through another country to return to the UK, check the travel advice for the country you’re transiting.
Following a security incident on 30th June, Chisinău International Airport has reopened, air traffic has resumed and flights are operating as normal.
It is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides appropriate cover. See the FCDO’s guidance on foreign travel insurance.
The FCDO advises British nationals in Ukraine to leave immediately if they judge it is safe to do so. You should not attempt to cross into Ukraine from Moldova. See Safety and security
The UK is supporting the multilateral humanitarian effort, led by UNHCR, and also offering practical bilateral support. If you or your organisation are considering providing humanitarian support to Ukrainians in Moldova, check information on existing support and ways to assist further on GOV.UK and the official pages from the Moldovan Government (largely Romanian and Russian only). This is particularly important if you are considering bringing in humanitarian supplies (Romanian and Russian language only).
In February 2022 Moldovan authorities declared a State of Emergency in light of regional crisis, which is still in place. We will update this Travel Advice when that changes.
Since autumn 2022 there have been regular political demonstrations in central Chisinau, and occasionally elsewhere. These are likely to continue. They have been small in scale, and generally peaceful and well-policed. Since February 2023, there have been reports and evidence of organised attempts by certain groups to use such demonstrations as a cover for causing disturbances. You are advised to stay away from all political demonstrations.
The Moldovan authorities strictly enforce penalties (including deportation) against those who overstay. See Entry requirements
You should be vigilant to petty crime, particularly in Chisinau. Leave your passport, travel documents and other valuable items in a safe place, and carry a photocopy of your passport for identification purposes. See Crime
There are strong penalties for possession or use of drugs. Avoid taking photographs of military or government installations. See Local laws and customs
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Moldova, attacks cannot be ruled out. See Terrorism
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.
