!
Warning
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to North Korea.

This information is for people travelling on a full ‘British citizen’ passport from the UK. It is based on the UK government’s understanding of North Korea’s current rules for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in North Korea set and enforce entry rules. If you’re not sure how these requirements apply to you, contact the North Korean Embassy in the UK.
Email: prkinfo@yahoo.com
Telephone: 020 8992 4965
Tourists can normally only travel to North Korea as part of an organised tour. Independent travellers will need a sponsor and permission from the Ministry for Foreign Affairs.  
COVID-19 rules
North Korea’s borders have been closed to general entry since the government imposed COVID-19 border restrictions in 2020. To check the latest restrictions and testing requirements, contact the North Korean Embassy in the UK.
Passport validity requirements
Your passport should be valid for the proposed duration of your stay.
Check with your travel provider that your passport and other travel documents meet requirements, including for China if you are travelling through China. Renew your passport if you need to.
You will be denied entry if you do not have a valid travel document or try to use a passport that has been reported lost or stolen.
Visa requirements
You must have a visa to enter North Korea.
Applying for a visa
Send visa applications and enquires directly to the North Korean Embassy in the UK.
Email: prkinfo@yahoo.com
Telephone: 020 8992 4965
Vaccine requirements
To enter North Korea, you must have a certificate to prove you’ve had a yellow fever vaccination if you’re coming from a country listed as a transmission risk.
For full details about medical entry requirements and recommended vaccinations, see TravelHealthPro’s North Korea guide. 
Registering with the authorities
You must be registered with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs if your visit is for more than 24 hours. Most hotels will complete this process on your behalf.
Some hotels may insist on full cash payment in advance when you check in.
Customs rules
You can bring a foreign mobile phone into the country, but you must register it at the border. There is no connectivity to international or domestic mobile networks from within North Korea using an international SIM card.
You must leave any Global Positioning System technology with North Korean customs. You can collect your devices when you leave North Korea.
Avoid bringing books or other written material in the Korean language, including anything with religious content. Consider carefully any films or television programmes that you bring into the country, either on DVD or on data storage devices. Customs officers will confiscate any literature or media deemed to have an anti-government message or deemed subversive or pornographic. There could be further severe penalties including imprisonment.
The North Korean authorities also impose restrictions and harsh penalties on their own citizens if they are found in possession of foreign media.
There have been cases of travel guides being confiscated at the airport on arrival and given back on departure.
Taking money into and out of North Korea
It is illegal to import or export the North Korean currency – won. There are no restrictions on importing and exporting foreign currency, but you must declare it at customs.
Shops and restaurants list their prices in won, but usually charge foreign nationals in foreign currency. They convert the won price using official exchange rates.
The US dollar and the euro are the most widely accepted currencies, although some places accept Chinese yuan (‘Renminbi’).
Credit cards and international mobile payments are not accepted.
