!
Warning
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to North Korea.

Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in North Korea
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in North Korea, attacks cannot be ruled out.
Political situation
The level of tension on the Korean peninsula remains high. Political negotiations between North Korea and the United States in 2018 to 2019 broke down and have not resumed. North and South Korea agreed a set of security guidelines in 2019 to reduce the risk of accidental cross-border conflict, but both sides have now withdrawn from this agreement. 
In late 2023, the North Korean government changed its reunification policy, leading to increased tensions with South Korea. North Korea continues to develop nuclear weapons and ballistic missiles, although these are banned by UN Security Council resolutions. North Korea’s material and political support for Russia’s illegal invasion of Ukraine has further strained relations with much of the international community. 
Inter-Korean tensions usually rise around the time of South Korean-US military exercises, often held in the spring and autumn. 
Nuclear and missile tests 
North Korea carried out 6 underground nuclear tests between 2006 and 2017 and has stated that it reserves the right to carry out further tests.
North Korea also regularly conducts ballistic missile test launches, sometimes without giving the required notice to international aviation authorities, and against UN Security Council resolutions.      
Crime
Crime against foreign nationals in North Korea is rare. Take sensible precautions to protect your belongings.
Fire safety
Levels of fire safety awareness may be low. Check hotel fire procedures with the hotel reception or consult your tour operator.
Laws and cultural differences
Take care with your words and actions during your stay. Insults or jokes about the North Korean political system and its leadership are taken very seriously. Offences that would be considered trivial in other countries can incur very severe penalties in North Korea. This includes the promotion of other religions or beliefs. 
Arrests and trials
Foreign nationals may face arrest for not paying sufficient respect, including not treating images of the current and former North Korean leaders with care. 
The North Korean authorities have previously arrested visitors with or without specified charges, including 4 US citizens and one Canadian citizen. Some have faced public trials and imprisonment.  
In 2016 a US national was convicted of ‘crimes against the state’ and sentenced to 15 years of hard labour. The court had found him guilty of attempting to steal a political banner from the staff quarters of a tourist hotel. He fell into a coma while in detention and was released in 2017, but died soon after his return to the US. 
If arrested, you are not guaranteed access to phone calls with family and friends or the British Embassy, or to independent legal advice or interpretation services. 
Taking photos or videos
Ask permission from your tour guide before taking any photographs. Avoid pointing cameras at North Korean officials or guarded buildings.
LGBT+ travellers
Although there’s no specific legislation outlawing same-sex relationships in North Korea, the authorities do not recognise same-sex rights and consider same-sex relationships and behaviours unacceptable. 
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Travel outside Pyongyang
Foreign nationals living in Pyongyang are normally allowed to travel within the city, but usually require permission to travel outside Pyongyang.
Travel for visitors within North Korea is severely restricted. Whether you are visiting on business or as a tourist, a guide will almost always accompany you. The guide will decide where you can go. It is your guide’s responsibility to get permission to travel outside Pyongyang. Military checkpoints on entry and exit to all towns usually include ID checks.
In 2008 guards shot and killed a South Korean tourist who strayed into a restricted military area. Remain in permitted areas and move away immediately if asked to do so by North Korean officials.
Transport risks
Road travel
You can get taxis from hotels or outside some department stores, but they will be reluctant to take you without a local guide or interpreter. Foreign nationals are not usually allowed to use public transport unless they are accompanied by a local guide. 
If you want to drive in North Korea, see information on driving abroad. International driving permits are not valid in North Korea. Foreign nationals living in North Korea must get a local driving licence by passing a local driving test.
You should take extra care when driving, as roads are often of poor quality with frequent hazards, and pedestrian road safety awareness is low. In 2018 a tour bus carrying Chinese tourists crashed on the road between Pyongyang and the Demilitarized Zone, killing a number of passengers.
Air travel
Most travellers entering North Korea by air take direct flights from Beijing to Pyongyang operated by the North Korean national airline, Air Koryo, or the Chinese state airline, Air China.
The UK Air Safety List has banned Air Koryo from operating commercial air services to the UK, with the exception of 2 Tupolev Tu204 aircraft. The Department for Transport maintains the list, based on advice from the UK Civil Aviation Authority.
Incidents on Air Koryo flights reported in July 2016 and May 2017 highlight concerns about Air Koryo’s safety record and maintenance standards.
Extreme weather and natural disasters
Flooding is common in the rainy season from July to August. This can disrupt travel, especially to rural areas. Check that routes are passable before setting out on long journeys.
