!
Warning
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to North Korea.

Your travel insurance could be invalidated if you travel against advice from the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO). Consular support is also severely limited where FCDO advises against travel.
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to North Korea
North Korea’s borders are currently closed, but few British people visit when they are open. Those that do are usually part of an organised tour. If you decide to visit North Korea, follow the advice of your tour group and the local authorities. Failure to do so could put your personal safety at risk.
The North Korean authorities have reportedly detained some foreign nationals and denied them access to consular support.
While daily life in the capital city Pyongyang may appear calm, the security situation can change quickly with no advance warning about possible actions by the authorities. This poses significant risks to British visitors and residents.
Follow the political and security situation very closely and stay in touch with your host organisation or tour operator.
Current incidents and risks
COVID-19 lockdown
No entry into North Korea is permitted while COVID-19 border restrictions remain in place. The North Korean government continues to temporarily suspend all passenger routes into and out of North Korea. The British Embassy in Pyongyang is temporarily closed due to these restrictions. This means you cannot get consular support from within North Korea.
You cannot enter or leave North Korea through the border with South Korea without special permission.
Nuclear testing
The level of tension on the Korean peninsula has remained high since 2017 when North Korea began a series of nuclear and missile tests.
A halt in nuclear testing and ballistic missile tests, announced in April 2018, came to an end in May 2019. Testing of ballistic missiles has taken place frequently since 2019.
Before you travel
No travel can be guaranteed safe. Read all the advice in this guide. You may also find it helpful to: 
see general advice for women travellers
read our guide on disability and travel abroad
see general advice for LGBT+ travellers
read about safety for solo and independent travel
see advice on volunteering and adventure travel abroad
Travel insurance
If you choose to travel, research your destinations and get appropriate travel insurance. Insurance should cover your itinerary, planned activities and expenses in an emergency.
About FCDO travel advice
FCDO provides advice about risks of travel to help British nationals make informed decisions. Find out more about FCDO travel advice.
Follow and contact FCDO travel on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram. You can also sign up to get email notifications when this advice is updated.
