Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Micronesia on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
International travel has resumed, but commercial flights to and from Micronesia remain limited. Check with your travel company for the latest information.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Micronesia.
Returning to the UK
Travelling from and returning to the UK
Check what you must do to travel abroad and return to England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
If you plan to pass through another country to return to the UK, check the travel advice for the country you’re transiting.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Micronesia
The situation may change rapidly, including in neighbouring countries. Follow local guidance at all times.
You should comply with any additional screening measures put in place by the Federated States of Micronesia (FSM) authorities.
Accommodation
Hotel and other accommodation for visitors may not be readily available. You will need to approach accommodation providers for the latest information on whether they are open.
Public places and services
There have been closures to shops, restaurants, bars and other public places, following the latest outbreak. You should follow advice from the local authorities on avoiding the spread of COVID-19, isolation and testing. You should also familiarise yourself on the latest rules on travel on the Government’s Facebook page between the States, which could change at short notice.
Healthcare in Micronesia
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Micronesia.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Micronesia
Wherever possible British nationals should aim to be vaccinated in the country where they live. We will update this page when the Government of Micronesia announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Micronesia national vaccination programme started in January 2021 and is using the Pfizer/BioNTech / Moderna / Janssen (Johnson and Johnson) vaccines. British nationals resident in Micronesia are eligible for vaccination. Further information on the vaccination programme is available from the FSM Department of Health and Medical Services, their COVID helpline is (691) 350-4161.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in Micronesia, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
Latest information on Micronesia’s response to Covid-19 will be published on the website of the National Government.
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
