There is an ongoing outbreak of coronavirus. The virus originated in Wuhan City, Hubei Province but cases have been confirmed in other parts of China and in some countries in the region. You should comply with any additional screening measures put in place by the Federated States of Micronesia authorities. Further advice is available from Public Health England, and the TravelHealthPro website.
Federated States of Micronesia FSM has declared a “state of public health emergency” and has banned travellers who from or who have travelled via China since 6 Jan. There are further requirements for travellers from countries with cases of coronavirus to spend 14 days in a country without cases.
At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
There has been an increase in reported measles cases in Micronesia. Make sure your vaccinations are up to date.
Medical facilities in Micronesia are adequate for uncomplicated treatment. For more serious or complicated problems, medical evacuation (to Guam or Australia) may be needed. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation, including medical evacuation by air ambulance.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 911 (the central dispatch number for the country) ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
