

Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in the Federated States of Micronesia
Although there is no recent history of terrorism in the Federated States of Micronesia, attacks cannot be ruled out.
Crime
Crime levels are low. The risk of crime is higher at night, particularly if alcohol is involved. The risk is also higher in the state of Chuuk.
Sexual assault
There have been reported incidents of sexual assault. You should stay aware of your surroundings, especially when alone. The risks are higher in isolated locations after dark or early in the morning.
Laws and cultural differences
Illegal drugs and prison sentences
There are heavy penalties for drug offences. If convicted, you risk a fine and a long prison sentence.
LGBT+ travellers
Same-sex relationships are not widely accepted in the Federated States of Micronesia. Same-sex couples showing affection in public may attract unwanted and negative attention.
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Outdoor activities and adventure tourism
Water safety
There are dangerous currents and waves in parts of the islands. Wear appropriate safety equipment and always get local advice if you’re taking part in adventure sports.
See water safety on holiday from the Royal Life Saving Society.
Extreme weather and natural disasters
The islands of the Micronesia region are vulnerable to natural disasters, including tropical cyclones, floods and severe droughts. Monitor local news and check World Meteorological Organisation weather reports for Micronesia. Follow any instructions issued by the local authorities.
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards.
Mobile phones
Your UK mobile phone will not work in the Federated States of Micronesia because there is no international roaming.
Money
The currency in the Federated States of Micronesia is the US dollar. Most hotels accept credit cards. ATM facilities are limited.
