Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Namibia on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
From 4am on Saturday 9 January, visitors arriving into the UK who have been in or transited through Namibia in the previous 10 days will not be permitted entry. British and Irish nationals, and third country nationals with residence rights in the UK arriving in England from Namibia will be required to quarantine in a hotel. Check the latest guidance for England, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales.
From 1 January onwards, those with residence rights include: holders of Indefinite Leave to Remain; holders of existing leave to enter or remain (i.e those with biometric Residence permits) or an entry clearance/visa that grants such leave e.g. students, workers, etc (excluding visit visas); holders of EU Settlement Scheme (“EUSS”) leave; those who have rights of entry under the Withdrawal Agreements (including returning residents with a right of residence under the EEA Regulations and EEA frontier workers); family members of EEA nationals with rights under the Withdrawal Agreement.
Hosea Kutako International airport is open and flights are operating to/from Germany, Ethiopia and South Africa, from where there are onward connections to the UK. Check with your travel company for the latest information.
Other countries may restrict movement or bring in new quarantine rules with little warning. You should check the travel advice for the countries on your route for the latest information.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Namibia.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements. You should contact local authorities for information on testing facilities.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Namibia
Details on COVID-19 case numbers and current regulations are available on the Ministry of Health and Social Services website.
Public health measures are in place which must be adhered to at all times. The measures are in force until midnight on 29 July:
A nationwide curfew is in place from 9pm to 4am daily. No movement is permitted between these hours
No travel is permitted between all regions across the country – except for returning residents, essential service providers in possession of the relevant permit, emergency medical cases and transport of human remains for burial, who will be permitted entry and exit with the relevant permit. Special dispensation is in place for tourists
Public transport operators will not be permitted to travel between regions, including long-haul operators and aircraft. Within regions, operators may only carry passengers to half the capacity of the vehicle. Public health measures, such as wearing a face mask, must be adhered to when using public transport, for the duration of the journey, and the destination must be reached before the start of curfew hours
Enforcement of public health measures will be undertaken by police and law enforcement personnel. You should comply with any instructions given.
Public places and services
Sale and purchase of liquor from Shebeens and bars is restricted to 9am to 6pm Monday to Thursday on take-away basis only. On site consumption of liquor is prohibited, except at restaurants, guesthouses, hotels and similar establishments where guests reside
All food establishments are to serve food on a take-away basis only
Gambling houses, nightclubs, gyms and sports clubs, public recreational spaces including playgrounds and swimming pools are not permitted to operate
The number of people permitted at public gatherings is 10 persons; and indoor public gatherings should not last longer than 2 hours. Registers of attendees must be maintained, temperature checks recorded, and hand sanitising facilities put in place. Face masks and social distancing of at least 2 metres are mandatory
Contact sports are prohibited; for non-contact sports no spectators are permitted at live events
You must:
Wear a face mask correctly at all times in public spaces including on public transport
Maintain social distancing
Avoid crowded public places
Enforcement of public health measures will be undertaken by police and law enforcement personnel. You should comply with any instructions given.
Healthcare in Namibia
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
If you think you have COVID-19 symptoms, you should call the Government of Namibia’s COVID-19 hotline on 0800 100 100.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Namibia.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Namibia
We will update this page when the Government of Namibia announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Namibia national vaccination programme started in March 2021 and is using the AstraZeneca and Sinopharm vaccines. The Government of Namibia has stated that British nationals resident in Namibia are eligible for vaccination if they choose to join the programme. Further information on the vaccination programme is available on the Government of Namibia Ministry of Health and Social Services website and their Facebook page.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in Namibia, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British High Commission on +264 61 274800.
