The information on this page covers the most common types of travel and reflects the UK government’s understanding of the rules currently in place. Unless otherwise stated, this information is for travellers using a full ‘British Citizen’ passport.
The authorities in the country or territory you’re travelling to are responsible for setting and enforcing the rules for entry. If you’re unclear about any aspect of the entry requirements, or you need further reassurance, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
You should also consider checking with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Entry rules in response to coronavirus (COVID-19)
Entry to Namibia
Whilst airports are now open, all land borders and sea ports remain closed.
If you are travelling to Namibia for the purpose of business, health or education, you must inform your nearest Namibian High Commission or Embassy of your plans 14 days before your intended travel.
Testing before arrival
Any person entering Namibia for tourism, business, health or education must present proof of a negative COVID-19 test taken within 7 days before their arrival in Namibia.
Permanent residents do not need to provide a negative test on arrival, but you should check with your airline for any regulations they might have.
You should not use the NHS testing service to get a test in order to facilitate your travel to another country. You should arrange to take a private test.
Testing and quarantine requirements for visitors
On arrival in Namibia, you will be required to provide contact details and an itinerary for the duration of your stay. You must be available for a COVID-19 test to be taken on day 5 following your entry into Namibia. Results should be received on day 7, and provided that the result is negative, you may continue with your visit as planned. Further details can be found on the Namibian High Commission to the UK’s website.
Quarantine requirements for permanent residents
Permanent residents must enter quarantine on arrival in Namibia. This may be at home (but you must seek prior approval from the Government of Namibia) or in a government supervised facility. You will be required to undergo a COVID-19 test 5 days after your arrival. If the result is positive you will be required to enter an isolation facility.
Regular entry requirements
Visas
Although British nationals can enter Namibia for a holiday or private visit of up to 90 days without a visa, there have been cases where visitors have only been given permission to stay for periods much shorter than 90 days, sometimes as short as only 7 or 10 days. Before leaving the immigration desk in the airport arrivals hall, check that you have been given permission to stay in Namibia for the duration of your intended visit up to the maximum allowable of 90 days and that you have been given a correctly dated entry stamp by Namibian Immigration officials, as this will be checked on departure.
Overstaying the time granted or an incorrect or missing entry stamp could lead to detention, arrest and a fine. If you’re unable to leave Namibia due to the COVID-19 restrictions and need to extend your entry stamp or visa, contact the Ministry of Home Affairs and Immigration. The Government of Namibia formally announced they will not fine people who have overstayed their visas due to being unable to leave because of COVID-19.
If you intend to work (which includes volunteering) or stay in Namibia for a period of more than 90 days, you must get a visa from the Namibian High Commission in London before you travel.
Passport validity
Your passport should be valid for a minimum period of 6 months from the date of entry into Namibia and have at least 1 completely blank page for Namibian immigration to use. If you are also going to travel in South Africa, you should be aware that although South African authorities state they require 1 blank passport page for entry, some officials insist on 2 blank pages. If you plan to take this route, make sure you have a total of 3 blank pages.
Travelling with children (under 18)
Namibia introduced new immigration rules in 2016 relating to travel with children. In addition to valid passports, parents travelling with children (under 18) should at all times carry the original or certified copy of the unabridged birth certificate. The full unabridged birth certificate should list the child’s details and both parents’ details. The abridged (short) birth certificate which only lists the child’s particulars won’t be accepted by the Namibian Ministry of Home Affairs and Immigration.
Adults travelling with children where they are not the biological or legal guardians of those children, should be in possession of an affidavit statement from the child’s parents giving consent for their travel. If a child is travelling with only one parent, the other parent should give consent for travel in the form of an affidavit.
Unaccompanied children may be required to provide in addition to a valid passport:
proof of consent from one or both parents/legal guardians in the form of an affidavit
a letter from the person receiving the child including their residential address where the child will be staying
Contact your nearest Namibian High Commission if you have any specific questions about your trip.
If your child was born in the UK, you can order a full unabridged birth certificate online via GOV.UK.
Travelling with children via a South African airport
If you’re transiting through a South African airport with children, see our South Africa travel advice page for information and advice about the documents you’ll need to carry.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are valid for entry into, transit and exit from Namibia. Your ETD should be valid for a period of at least 6 months from the date of entry into Namibia.
