At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Coronavirus
Cases of coronavirus (COVID-19) have been confirmed in Namibia. A state of emergency was declared by the President on 17 March, with further measures announced on 24 March.
Travel
Entry to Namibia is banned for all foreign nationals for a period of 30 days. Ports and land border crossings have been closed to passengers.
Namibian nationals and permanent residents returning to Namibia from high-risk countries will be required to enter supervised quarantine in a government facility for a period of 14 days.
Air routes to and from Namibia are severely disrupted. Options for returning to the UK have decreased and you should consult your airline or tour operator.. Travel restrictions are also in place in South Africa. Please check the South Africa travel advice if this applies to you.
Screening measures are in place at ports of entry including Hosea Kutako International airport – passengers are required to undergo temperature checks and provide information on their recent travel. You should comply will all screening measures. Passengers displaying coronavirus symptoms may be transferred to an isolation facility at the airport.
If you need further information about entry requirements, contact the local immigration authorities or the nearest Namibia High Commission. You should also check with your airline or travel company for the latest information.
Local measures
Internal travel restrictions will apply with respect to Khomas and Erongo regions for a period of 21 days (from 27 March to 16 April). The Government is urging the public to remain at home and avoid public gatherings. Further additional measures may be implemented.
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
Medical treatment
There are good medical facilities in Windhoek. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation. Even with fully comprehensive travel insurance, private hospitals in Namibia may insist on proof of payment (cash or credit card) before starting treatment. They may also insist you pay up front, reclaiming from your insurer at a later date. Some travel insurance policies are not recognised by some Namibian hospitals, you should check with your provider if their product is accepted in Namibia before you travel and seek alternative coverage where necessary. Medical evacuation from remote areas can take time.
Health risks
Cholera is known to occur in Namibia and an outbreak has been reported in the Kunene Region with additional cases reported in the Omusati, Oshana, Ohangwena, and Khomas Regions, including a small number of cases in the capital, Windhoek. For further information see NaTHNaC’s Information sheet.
Some people suffer skin problems and/or dehydration due to Namibia’s hot and dry climate. Make sure you carry a good supply of drinkable water.
The 2013 UNAIDS Report on the Global AIDS Epidemic estimated that around 200,000 adults aged 15 or over in Namibia were living with HIV; the prevalence percentage was estimated at around 13.3% of the adult population compared to the prevalence percentage in adults in the UK of around 0.2%. You should exercise normal precautions to avoid exposure to HIV/AIDS.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 211111 (in Windhoek) or 10111 (elsewhere) and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
