Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

There are no commercial options available to fly out of Namibia.
The UK government is working closely with airlines, the Namibian authorities and other governments to try to make sure options are available for you to return to the UK as soon as possible. This travel advice will be updated as departure options become available.
What to do
If you have not already contacted the British High Commission to make them aware of your presence in Namibia, you should do so now by emailing general.windhoek@fco.gov.uk providing your:
full name
passport number
date of birth
current location in Namibia
details of how to contact you
Remember to send a further email should your situation change.
follow the advice of local authorities, including local measures to help minimise your risk of exposure to coronavirus (COVID-19)
find accommodation that’s suitable for your needs
sign up to email alerts for this travel advice
keep in regular contact with family and friends at home, so they know you are safe and well
keep up-to-date with the latest information from transport providers and local authorities on your departure options
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Future options
Domestic flights as well as long distance trains and buses, are suspended until midnight on 4 May
Ground transport to Hosea Kotaku International Airport:
In the event flights become available, you can travel from your accommodation to the airport if you have a valid plane ticket and are not showing any symptoms of coronavirus
If you travel overland to Windhoek, authorities may restrict your movement. The British High Commission can provide you with an official letter supporting your move.
Car hire is available
Your journey home
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Help and support
If you encounter any difficulties when trying to access the airport, you should contact the British High Commission immediately on 061274800.
Follow the British High Commission on Facebook @UkinNamibia and Twitter (@kate_airey and @Char_FentonUK) where relevant information will also be shared.
Further information
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately
