

Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.    
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Namibia
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Namibia, attacks cannot be ruled out.  
Crime
Protecting yourself and your belongings
Muggers often target tourists in Windhoek. Attacks may be violent and can take place at any time of day and in busy city-centre locations. To reduce your personal risk:
be aware of your surroundings, especially after dark
keep your valuables and cash out of sight or use a hotel safe
do not change large sums of money in busy public areas
Vehicle crime
Gangs sometimes try to enter vehicles at busy intersections in Windhoek. Theft from vehicles, particularly at service stations, is common. To reduce the risks:
do not leave your vehicle unattended at fuel stops
keep car doors locked and windows shut, especially in heavy traffic
keep valuables off the seats and out of sight
To reduce the risk of robberies from taxis:
do not hail taxis from the street, particularly in Windhoek
ask your hotel, guest house or tour operator to recommend a reputable taxi company
do not enter townships at night, unless you are with someone with local knowledge
Credit card skimming
There have been cases of credit card skimming at some hotels and lodges. Always keep your card in sight when paying and check your statement.
Laws and cultural differences
Personal ID
Always carry UK photo ID. You may need to show ID at police checkpoints in Windhoek and other major towns and cities. Keep copies of the photo page of your passport and important documents separately in a safe place.
LGBT+ travellers
Same-sex relationships are not illegal in Namibia. Certain same-sex sexual acts are illegal, but generally not prosecuted. There are no laws against discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation. Conservative attitudes towards LGBT+ individuals remain, especially in rural regions. Showing affection in public may result in unwanted attention.
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Illegal drugs and prison sentences
Penalties for using or smuggling illegal drugs can be severe. Penalties include large fines and imprisonment.
Wildlife, animal products and souvenirs
It’s illegal to buy, sell, kill or capture any protected wild animal or trade its parts without a licence. You will be prosecuted and could get a fine or prison sentence for buying or trafficking these goods, including ivory and rhino horn.
Using cameras in secure areas
Police have detained people for taking pictures of the President’s official residence. Check before taking photographs of government buildings or in secure areas.
Outdoor activities and adventure tourism
Make sure your travel insurance covers you for any adventure activities you plan to do, like quad biking, dune boarding or hot air ballooning.
Transport risks
Road travel
If you are planning to drive in Namibia, see information on driving abroad. 
You’ll need to have both the 1949 version of the international driving permit (IDP) and your UK photocard driving licence with you in the car.
Take out comprehensive insurance as accidents are common on gravel and dirt roads. If you’re planning to hire a car, check what insurance cover is provided. Most policies will not cover accidents that do not involve other vehicles or animals.
Driving standards
During the rainy season from January to April, many gravel roads deteriorate. You should:
not go faster than 80 km/h
carry 2 spare tyres for punctures
carry plenty of water
check the road conditions before setting off
avoid driving at night outside towns, as wildlife and livestock are serious hazards
