This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Namibia as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Namibia to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Registering with the British High Commission
If you have not already contacted the British High Commission to make them aware of your presence in Namibia, you should do so now by emailing general.windhoek@fco.gov.uk, providing your:
full name
passport number
date of birth
current location in Namibia
details of how to contact you
Remember to send a further email should your situation change.
Moving around in Namibia
For information on entering Namibia, see Entry requirements.
A State of Emergency was declared by the President on 17 March, which will last until 17 September. You should comply with the measures in place.
Except for the Erongo region, the whole of Namibia will adopt stage 4 restrictions from midnight on 29 June. These restrictions are expected to last until 17 September.
Stage 4 measures include:
continued physical distancing of at least 1 metre between persons;
a requirement for facemasks to be worn when using both private and public transport, shopping, participating in outdoor group exercise, using public spaces, and at the workplace;
increased hygiene interventions, including installation of sanitiser equipment within public and work places;
a requirement for businesses to keep a register of customers, recording time of patronage, full name and contact details, to assist with possible contact tracing;
sporting events to include the resumption of contact sports, adhering to public gathering limit of 250 persons;
reopening of nightclubs, and of casinos to pre-booked clients, with consumption of alcohol on the premises only, wearing of facemask inside the premises, and limits on the number of persons allowed to enter at any one time;
borders remaining closed and international flights suspended.
For the Erongo region, stage 3 measures are expected to last until 6 July. Measures are as follows:
All members of the public are required to wear face masks in public spaces and to observe public distancing;
restaurants are open to pre-booked customers; bars and liquor outlets may sell alcohol for home consumption only; cinemas, libraries, gyms and sporting events will be subject to limits on customer numbers; contact sports, nightclubs and casinos remain closed;
travel between towns in the Erongo region and the rest of the country will be permitted, with the exception of Walvis Bay, Swakopmond and Arandis local authority areas; travel into and out of these areas is highly discouraged and will be restricted to emergency situations only;
public gatherings in the Erongo region will be restricted to 50 persons, except for Walvis Bay, Swakopmond and Arandis where gatherings are restricted to 10 persons.
Health
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Namibia.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Namibia, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
