Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

Coronavirus: stay up to date
Cases of coronavirus (COVID-19) have been confirmed in Namibia. See information on measures introduced in Namibia to limit the spread of the virus. Find out how to return to the UK from Namibia.
See coronavirus travel advice for guidance on international travel.
Sign up for email alerts for Namibia travel advice.
The Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) is advising British nationals against all non-essential international travel at this time.
Given the rapidly changing situation in Namibia, we have temporarily withdrawn a limited number of UK staff and their dependents from our Embassy. The Embassy will continue to carry out essential work including providing 24/7 consular assistance and support to Britsh people in Namibia.
Cases of coronavirus (COVID-19) have been confirmed in Namibia. Measures introduced by the Namibian authorities include closing ports and border crossings, suspension of all commercial flights in and out of the country. On 14 April, the President announced the extension of the lockdown to midnight on 4 May, and restrictions on movement across the whole country. See Coronavirus and Return to the UK
Avoid driving outside towns at night as wildlife and stray livestock pose a serious hazard. See Road travel
There is a growing level of violent street crime affecting foreign tourists, particularly in Windhoek. See Crime
If travelling along the Zambezi region, stick to the well-travelled routes. See Local travel
You should carry identification with you at all times. Unless you need to have your passport with you for immigration purposes or passing through security checkpoints, leave it in your hotel safe and carry a photocopy for ID.
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Namibia, attacks can’t be ruled out. See Terrorism
Most visits to Namibia are trouble-free.
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.
Take out comprehensive travel and medical insurance before travelling. 
