Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Nicaragua on the TravelHealthPro website.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
Flights to and from Nicaragua are currently limited. Avianca has started a limited series of flights to Miami and details are available directly from the airline or via a travel agent.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Nicaragua.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements. You should contact local authorities for information on testing facilities (only available in Spanish).
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Nicaragua
There are no specific travel restrictions currently in force in Nicaragua. You should follow all precautionary health measures and keep up to date with information from your tour operator, transport or accommodation provider, and comply with measures introduced by the authorities.
Public spaces and services
Social distancing measures and other safety precautions should be observed at all times.
Healthcare in Nicaragua
Independent reports indicate that the healthcare system in Nicaragua is reaching its full capacity due to COVID-19, which might affect services such as accident and emergency care. For COVID-19 related queries, dial 132.
British-issued prescriptions cannot be used locally. To find a pharmacy (“farmacia”) look for one of the big national chains such as FarmaValue, Farmacia MEDCO, Farmacia Saba, Farmacia Kielsa, or Farmacia El Ahorro, among others; a quick search online should help you to identify the nearest one open.
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Nicaragua.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Nicaragua
As information is available about the national vaccination programme, this page will be updated.
The Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) is the UK authority responsible for assessing the safety, quality and efficacy of vaccines. It has authorised the Pfizer/BioNTech, Oxford/AstraZeneca and Moderna vaccines for temporary supply and use in the UK. Find out more about MHRA approval for these vaccines.
British nationals living overseas should seek medical advice from their local healthcare provider in the country where they reside. Information about vaccines used in other national programmes, including regulatory status, should be available from the local authorities. This list of Stringent Regulatory Authorities recognised by the World Health Organisation may also be a useful source of additional information. Find out more information about the COVID-19 vaccines on the World Health Organization COVID-19 vaccines page.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
For information from the Nicaraguan health authorities, see their official website.
