

This information is for people travelling on a full ‘British citizen’ passport from the UK. It is based on the UK government’s understanding of Nicaragua’s current rules for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Nicaragua set and enforce entry rules. If you’re not sure how these requirements apply to you, contact the Nicaraguan Embassy in the UK.
Passport validity requirements
To enter Nicaragua, your passport must have an ‘expiry date’ at least 6 months after the date you arrive.
Check with your travel provider that your passport and other travel documents meet requirements. Renew your passport if you need to.
You will be denied entry if you do not have a valid travel document or try to use a passport that has been reported lost or stolen.
Visa requirements
You can visit Nicaragua for up to 90 days without a visa. You may be refused entry if you do not have an onward ticket.  
Check with your travel company or nearest Nicaraguan embassy what the policy is for entry at the Nicaraguan border.
Travelling to El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras  
Under the Central America Border Control Agreement (also known as CA-4), you can travel between Nicaragua, El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras for up to 90 days without a visa.
The 90-day period starts when you enter any of these countries and does not restart when you cross borders. You’ll have to go through immigration checks at borders. If you’re expelled from one of these countries, you’re also excluded from the other 3.
In Nicaragua, you can extend your stay by up to 30 days by paying a fee before the 90 days expires. If you overstay, you may get a fine.
Vaccine requirements
To enter Nicaragua, you must have a certificate to prove you’ve had a yellow fever vaccination if you’re coming from a country listed as a transmission risk.
For full details about medical entry requirements and recommended vaccinations, see TravelHealthPro’s Nicaragua guide.   
Travelling with children with Nicaraguan nationality
Children with single or dual Nicaraguan nationality may need certain documents to leave Nicaragua with one parent or a third party. Check with the local authorities.
Customs rules
There are strict rules about goods you can take into or out of Nicaragua. You must declare anything that may be prohibited or subject to tax or duty. Contact the Nicaraguan Embassy in the UK for more information. 
Electronic cigarettes
There is a ban on electronic smoking devices such as e-cigarettes in Nicaragua. You cannot import, export, sell, store or use these devices, with or without nicotine. Customs officials can confiscate these products at the border.
Taking money into Nicaragua
The US dollar, either in cash or travellers cheques, is the only foreign currency freely exchangeable in Nicaragua. Banks do not exchange British pounds.
Arrival and departure tax
You must pay an arrival tax of 10 US dollars in cash. There is also a departure tax of 35 US dollars, which is normally included in the price of your air ticket.
