At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
UK health authorities have classified Nicaragua as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For more information and advice, visit the website of the National Travel Health Network and Centre.
Dengue fever is endemic to Latin America and the Caribbean. There has been a recent significant increase in the number of reported cases and in July 2019 the Nicaraguan Ministry of Health declared an epidemiological alert for the mosquito-borne virus. Nicaragua currently has the highest number of suspected cases in the Central America region, at over 186,000, up from 58,000 in 2018. Cases of Chikungunya virus have also been confirmed in Nicaragua. You should take steps to avoid being bitten by mosquitoes
Public hospitals in Nicaragua are not well equipped and charge for some services. There are some newer and better equipped hospitals in Managua. Each department of the country has its own public hospital. You may need a good understanding of Spanish to use the health facilities. In an emergency, patients will be taken to the nearest hospital, which is usually a public hospital unless the patient indicates they are able to pay for treatment. Payment for healthcare is usually accepted in cash and may be required before treatment.
A few private hospitals will accept major credit cards for payment. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 128 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
Coronavirus
There is an ongoing outbreak of coronavirus (COVID-19) worldwide and cases have been confirmed in Nicaragua. You should follow precautionary measures and keep up to date with information from your tour operator, transport or accommodation provider and comply with any health measures introduced by the authorities.
The FCO strongly encourage British nationals in Nicaragua to consider leaving to avoid difficulties they will face if flights out of the country and the region are further restricted and they are unable to get home. Resident and non-resident British nationals in Nicaragua who wish to leave should contact their airline or tour operator.
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
