The Nicaraguan government has reportedly closed its borders until further notice. There are currently no commercial options available to return to the UK from Nicaragua. Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British Embassy on Facebook and Twitter.
UK special flight
On 11 June, a special flight will depart from Augusto Sandino International Airport, Managua, to the UK. The flight will go via Guatemala City to San Jose, Costa Rica, where passengers will board a transatlantic flight to London Heathrow.
The flight cost is £800 per person, regardless of where your journey begins. This flight is for:
British nationals, normally resident in the UK
dependants travelling with a British national
Vulnerable British nationals will be prioritised. Vulnerable non-British UK residents with Indefinite Leave to Remain, and other foreign nationals, may be accommodated if there is sufficient capacity.
Your eligibility will be checked before your tickets are issued.
How to book
CTM is working on behalf of the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) to manage special flight bookings.
If you wish to travel, book on the CTM website as soon as possible.
To book flights on the CTM website, you will need:
full passport and contact details for each traveller
your UK home address and postcode
your means of payment, such as credit or debit card details
The booking website is only available to British nationals. If you have difficulty booking online, or if you are a vulnerable non-British UK resident with Indefinite Leave to Remain, or another foreign national, then you will need to contact us. To do so, send an SMS text message containing only your full name to +44 (0)7537 416 125.
A member of the CTM team will then be in touch.
Tickets will not be on sale at the airport. Do not travel to the airport without a confirmed ticket.
You may find it helpful to read our guide to eligibility and the booking process for special charter flights.
Financial support for a flight
If you have exhausted all other options available to you for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government to cover the cost of the ticket.
You would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK.
Our partner CTM is also authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO and details will be available when you are asked to pay.
Travel to the airport
La Costeña air services, who run internal flights within Nicaragua, have announced they will suspend their scheduled services from 26 May 2020. The resumption date is currently given as 9 June 2020
there are no specific travel restrictions currently in force in Nicaragua
you should follow precautionary health measures and keep up to date with information from your tour operator, transport or accommodation provider, and comply with measures introduced by the authorities
for COVID-19 related queries, dial 132
Your journey home
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Future options
The British Embassy in Costa Rica, which covers Nicaragua, is in contact with airlines, the Nicaraguan authorities and other governments to make sure commercial options for returning to the UK are available as soon as possible.
Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British Embassy on Twitter and Facebook.
If you cannot leave Nicaragua
If you cannot leave Nicaragua at this time, see advice on staying in Nicaragua during coronavirus.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British Embassy in Costa Rica (which covers Nicaragua) at Consular.CostaRica@fco.gov.uk or on (+506) 2258 2025.
If you cannot leave Nicaragua
If you cannot leave Nicaragua at this time, see advice on staying in Nicaragua during coronavirus.
