

Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Nicaragua
Although there is no recent history of terrorism in Nicaragua, attacks cannot be ruled out.
Political situation
Demonstrations and gatherings can turn violent. It is illegal for foreigners to take part in any sort of political activity in Nicaragua. You can be arrested and detained or deported for:
taking part in a protest
breach of the peace
any activity seen as acting against the government, including political meetings and campaigns
using Nicaragua’s national flag or colours (blue and white) for campaigning or protesting
Demonstrations can also lead to travel disruption. Check local information before travelling.
Crime
Violent crime
Foreigners have been affected by violent crime in Nicaragua. Criminals often carry out attacks on people in vehicles. To reduce the risk to yourself and your belongings:
keep the windows of your car closed and the doors locked
avoid public transport after dark
Take care when walking around markets, bus stations, around the old cathedral in Managua and in the poorer areas of towns. Do not visit these areas after dark on foot.
If you are robbed, do not resist, as many criminals carry weapons. If you report the incident to the police, get a signed and stamped copy of the police report.  
There is no British Embassy in Nicaragua so we cannot give in-person consular assistance. If your passport is stolen, contact the British Embassy in San Jose, Costa Rica on +506 2258 2025.
Taxi safety and ‘express kidnapping’
There is a risk of ‘express kidnapping’ if you use an unauthorised taxi. You could be taken hostage and forced to pay cash for your release.
Reduce the risk by:
using a radio-dispatched taxi or an authorised taxi with red plates
making sure the driver’s ID number, name and photograph are clearly visible on the dashboard
making a note of the colour and number of the vehicle before you get in
It is a common local practice to share taxis with strangers, but tourists have been robbed when taking taxis called by strangers. Do not take a taxi if it has been called for you by someone you do not know well. You should also avoid using ‘colectivos’ (minibuses).
Sexual assault
If you’re a woman, use hotels that have staff at the front desk 24 hours a day and have adequate security measures. Read the advice for women travelling abroad.
Risks when exchanging money
There is a risk when exchanging money on the street that you could be assaulted or targeted by muggers. There are often money changers with official identification at the front of banks, where there is likely to be better security. You can also withdraw cash in US dollars or Nicaraguan cordobas from ATMs.
Laws and cultural differences
Illegal drugs and prison sentences
Do not become involved with drugs of any kind. Possession of even small quantities can lead to imprisonment.
Flying drones
There are strict restrictions on the use of drones. Do not use drones for photography or any other reason, unless you have written permission from the Nicaraguan authorities.
Outdoor activities and adventure tourism
Swimming safety
There are strong currents off sections of Nicaragua’s Pacific coast and people have drowned. There are no warning signs or lifeguards, and rescue equipment is not readily available.
Scuba diving
There have been fatalities from scuba diving off Nicaragua’s Caribbean coast. If you want to dive, contact a reputable diving company to find out about Nicaraguan waters. Nicaragua’s only hyperbaric chamber is in Puerto Cabezas, a 5-hour speedboat ride from Corn Island.
Transport risks
Road travel
If you’re planning to drive a car, see information on driving abroad. You cannot drive or import right-hand-drive vehicles into Nicaragua.   
You can use a UK photocard driving licence to drive in Nicaragua. If you still have a paper driving licence, you may need to update it to a photocard licence.
Driving standards and road conditions
The standard of driving is low and the condition of vehicles, particularly taxis and buses, is poor. There’s a risk of drivers failing to give way and driving dangerously, including under the influence of alcohol.
Road conditions are generally poor. There is no street lighting on the main highways between major cities and only minimal street lighting in towns. Avoid driving at night.
If you’re involved in a serious or fatal road traffic accident, you’re likely to be detained while it is investigated.  
Boat and ferry travel
Although local law requires operators of water transport to have insurance, some still do not carry recognised insurance. Check the operator’s insurance cover before beginning your journey.
Extreme weather and natural disasters
See extreme weather and natural hazards for information about how to prepare, and how to react if there is a warning.
Hurricanes
The hurricane season normally runs from June to November. Monitor the National Hurricane Center forecasts and the World Meteorological Organization warnings. Follow the advice of local authorities and obey evacuation orders.
Volcanic eruptions
A group of volcanoes, several of which are active, stretches the length of the country, in particular San Cristóbal, Masaya, Cerro Negro, and Telica and Concepción on Ometepe Island. Follow media reports and listen to local authorities if you intend to visit the area.
Do not hike on volcanoes without an experienced guide.
Earthquakes
There is a risk of earthquakes. The US Federal Emergency Management Agency has advice about what to do before, during and after an earthquake or tsunami.
