Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Fiji on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
Scheduled international passenger flights remain suspended until further notice. However, Fiji Airways are operating occasional “Special Flights” to enable departure from Fiji. Anyone wishing to travel on these flights should check availability and passenger requirements for travel on the Fiji Airways website or contact their Travel Agent. Inward passenger flights are currently only permitted for those returning from medical treatment abroad.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Fiji.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Fiji
Travel restrictions have been in place in Fiji following a COVID-19 outbreak. Scheduled international and domestic passenger flights have been suspended though some outbound “Special flights” are being operated by Fiji Airways. The main island of Viti Levu has two “containment zones” one covering the Greater Suva Area and one covering the Nadi/Lautoka area in the west. Travel into and out of these zones is restricted. The Fijian Government continues with targeted of lockdown of areas where existing clusters of COVID-19 exist. Some boat services to and from Viti Levu remain suspended but some journeys have been approved under tight controls.
Only persons with a pass issued by the Ministry of Health are allowed through checkpoints between zones. Public transportation within the zones is available but limited to 50 percent seating capacity. Mask wearing on public transport is mandatory and people can be fined for non-compliance.
The Fijian government is encouraging most people to work from home, and to leave their houses only if essential.
A nationwide curfew is in effect from 6pm to 4am each night. More information on the latest restrictions are available on the Fiji government website.
Accommodation
Some hotels and rental accommodation are open with COVID-19 protocols including social distancing measures in place.
Public places and services
Most public places in Viti Levu are closed, other than essential businesses including supermarkets and pharmacies. Nightclubs remain closed and you must abide by the nationwide curfew which need you to remain in your home or accommodation between 6pm and 4am.
Restrictions on movement remain in place in Viti Levu. The capital, Suva is part of a large containment area reaching to Nausori where restrictions are in place. Some non-essential businesses have resumed operations alongside essential businesses following approval from government provided that they follow COVID-19 safety protocols Fijians and residents are required to display their careFiji app or register their details for contact tracing purposes for example when entering supermarkets or shops. The Fijian Government has introduced regulations that require all employers and employees in both the public and private sector to obtain a COVID-19 vaccination. Many people continue to work from home given high community transmission levels. Schools remain closed and tertiary education institutions remained closed have resumed classes online.
Healthcare in Fiji
If you begin to feel unwell self-isolate by staying at home, even with mild symptoms such as headache, low grade fever (37.3 C or above) and slight runny nose, until you recover. If it is essential for you to have someone bring you supplies or to go out, for example, to buy food, then wear a mask to avoid infecting other people.
If you develop symptoms of COVID-19 including fever, cough and difficulty breathing, seek medical advice promptly as this may be due to a respiratory infection or other serious condition. The Ministry of Health and Medical Services have a hotline (telephone number 158) to provide help. They will be able to direct you to the right health facility. For more information see the Ministry of Health and Medical Services website.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Fiji
The Fiji government has a nationwide vaccination programme including some drive-thru sites. Details of vaccination locations are posted on a daily basis on Fiji’s Ministry of Health website as well as their Facebook and Twitter channels.
The Fiji national vaccination programme started in March 2021 and is using the AstraZeneca vaccine. British nationals resident in Fiji are eligible for the vaccine. You will need your residence Permit Number and a valid photo ID (Passport, Voter ID Card, FNPF Card, Driver’s License, Student ID, TIN Joint Card) to register. Further information can be found on Fiji’s Ministry of Health website.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in Fiji, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, High Commission or Consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
