This page has information on travelling to Fiji. Check what you must do to return to the UK.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport from the UK, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Fiji set and enforce entry rules.
All travellers
All travellers should familiarise themselves with the entry rules for Fiji before travel.
If you’re fully vaccinated
Fiji define fully vaccinated travellers as those who have received the recommended number of initial doses (usually two) of a vaccine that Fiji recognises. Vaccine booster shots are considered as additional protection to full vaccination and are not mandatory.
You will need to book an in-country pre-COVID RAT test, prior to departing for Fiji. The test must be done within 72 hours of arrival. In-Country tests must be booked online prior to arrival to Fiji.
Travellers with existing insurance must present evidence of the cover, not excluding COVID-19. All foreign passport holders (except valid permit holders who provide a supporting letter from a sponsor/employer to meet all COVID-19 related costs, including isolation if required) must have medical travel insurance, with international coverage that covers COVID-19 before travelling.
Full information on entry requirements, including approved vaccines, are available on Fiji’s Ministry Of Commerce, Trade, Tourism and Transport website.
Proof of vaccination status
You must present proof that you have been fully vaccinated to enter Fiji.
Travellers (aged 16 years and above) must produce a digital or a paper certification of full vaccination, at least 14 days before travel.
Fiji will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 vaccination record and proof of COVID-19 vaccination issued in the Crown Dependencies. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
If you’re not fully vaccinated
All visitors to Fiji must be fully vaccinated, this includes Fijian citizens. Only in exceptional circumstances will an exemption be provided - see Exemptions
If you’ve had COVID-19 in the past year
If you tested positive within 30 days of your travel to Fiji and have recovered, you should provide proof of your isolation period served by a credible institution OR a Fit to Fly certificate / letter from a medical practitioner.
The Fit to Fly certificate or letter will exempt you from the post-arrival testing requirements for entering Fiji.
An acceptable Fit to fly certificate or letter from your medical practitioner should be typed and on an official letterhead. It should also include the following information:
date of onset symptoms
date tested positive
date of cessation of symptoms
release date from isolation
If you recovered from COVID-19 outside the 30 days, you should provide a negative COVID-19 test result.
Children and young people
All travellers aged 16 years and above must produce proof of full vaccination. Travellers under the age of 16 years are exempt from this requirement, provided they are accompanied by a parent or guardian who is vaccinated. Unaccompanied minors below the age of 16 must be fully vaccinated and observe all international travel protocols.
If you’re transiting through Fiji
Transiting is when you pass through one country on the way to your final destination.
Transiting through Fiji is permitted for fully vaccinated travellers who have a valid outward ticket within 72 hours of arrival and meet the entry requirements for the country of your final destination. If the transit is 48 hours or more, you will need to have a pre-booked Rapid Antigen Test to be taken within 48-72 hours of arriving in Fiji. You can book your in-country test online.
Full rules on transiting Fiji can be found on the Tourism Fiji website .
Exemptions
Only fully vaccinated travellers are allowed entry into Fiji. Only in exceptional circumstances will an exemption be provided at the discretion of the Permanent Secretary for Health and Medical Services.
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
Check with your travel provider to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Passport validity
Your passport should have at least 6 months’ validity remaining on your date of entry into Fiji.
Visas
Visas are not needed for visits of up to 4 months. You must have an onward or return ticket and a valid visa for the next country you’re travelling to. If you’re visiting Fiji on business you will be granted a stay for 14 days on arrival.
If you plan to stay for longer than 4 months, you will need to apply for a visa from the Fiji High Commission in London.
Yachts can only enter Fiji through Suva, Lautoka, Savusavu and Levuka. For other ports, such as Nadi/Denarau, prior arrangement with the Fijian Authorities is needed.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents are valid for entry, airside transit and exit from Fiji.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
Customs requirements
Fiji customs enforce strict quarantine regulations and x-ray all in-bound luggage at Nadi airport. Most perishable foodstuffs will be confiscated on arrival, unless arriving from a country with quarantine agreements with Fiji.
You must declare currency amounts in excess of FJ$10,000.
Travelling with children
Some countries need documentary evidence of parental responsibility before allowing lone parents to enter the country or, in some cases, before permitting the children to leave the country.
In the case of Fiji, no such documentation is needed for visitors. But it is needed for those applying for work and/or residency permits. For further information contact the Fiji High Commission in London.
Returning to the UK
Check what you must do to return to the UK.
