At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Coronavirus
There is now a confirmed case of COVID-19 in Fiji. The situation may change rapidly, including in neighbouring countries. Follow local guidance at all times.
The Government of Australia has announced that from 9pm local time on 20 March, entry to the country will only be permitted to Australian citizens or permanent residents. This follows a similar announcement by New Zealand from 19 March. As many flight connections to and from Fiji connect in Australia and New Zealand, options to depart Fiji are likely to reduce. If you’re currently a visitor in Fiji, you’re advised to prepare to leave as soon as possible. If you’re resident in Fiji, you should be aware of the potential impact of the border closures and flight restrictions on future travel plans.
Fiji government has announced restrictions on travelers coming from countries and areas with more serious outbreaks. All arriving international air passengers are required to self-quarantine for 14 days. Those arriving from countries affected by more significant outbreaks, including the UK will be refused entry at the border. Fiji government have announced some measures to limited internal travel. Broader restrictions could be introduced at little or no notice. More information on the latest restrictions are available from Fiji government.
Further advice on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and the TravelHealthPro website
Medical treatment
Healthcare facilities are limited in range and availability. Doctors and hospitals often expect immediate cash payment for health services. In the event of a serious medical emergency, evacuation to another country is usually necessary. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any treatment abroad, medical evacuation and repatriation.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 911 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
Health risks
There have been a number of outbreaks of measles in Pacific countries, including Fiji. You should visit the NaTHNaC website for information and advice about measles and monitor the advice of the local authorities.
The Ministry of Health and Medical Services has declared an outbreak of leptospirosis in the Central Division. There have been a number of deaths from the outbreak. For further information, see the National Travel Health Network and Centre website
UK health authorities have classified Fiji as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For more information and advice, visit the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
