Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

We encourage British nationals in Fiji to register their details with the British High Commission. If you are a UK/EU national seeking to leave Fiji to return home please send us your details by emailing SuvaCS@fco.gov.uk with the following information for all passengers:
full name as it appears on passport
passport number
nationality
date of birth
current location
telephone numbers if you have one
intended destination
In registering your details, you will receive regular information about the situation in Fiji, including if any further flights become available.
On 26 March, Nadi Airport closed to all scheduled flights. We will continue to publish guidance on our social media on what people should do if they believe this leaves them stranded. Check our Facebook page and our Twitter feed.
UK special flights
On Wednesday, 29 April the UK will operate a special flight from Nadi to Melbourne. British nationals will then be able to connect with a commercial flight (which must be within 72 hours) from Melbourne to London, which will need to be booked separately before departure from Nadi.
The cost of the Nadi to Melbourne flight will be £400 per person. If you wish to travel, you must register for tickets on the CTM website as soon as possible.
If you are not able to complete your booking online, send a SMS text message with your full name ONLY to +44 (0)20 7429 9725 and someone from CTM will get in touch to assist you. If you are unable to text this number, then please email us instead at SuvaCS@fco.gov.uk and we will pass on your details.
To book flights, you will need:
full passport and contact details for each traveller you are registering
your home address and postcode
your means of payment, such as credit or debit card details
If you cannot pay the cost of the ticket, send a SMS text message with your full name ONLY to +44 (0)20 7429 9725 and someone from CTM will get in touch to assist you. If you are unable to text this number, then please email us instead at SuvaCS@fco.gov.uk and we will pass on your details.
If you have exhausted all other options available to you for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government to cover the cost of the ticket. You would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. CTM is authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Tickets will not be on sale at the airport. Do not travel to the airport without a confirmed ticket.
You will have a maximum of 72 hours to transit through Melbourne, and the Australian Border Force require an exemption to do so. The British High Commission in Suva will apply for this for you.
We strongly recommend you book the Qatar Airways flight from Melbourne to London, flight numbers QR905 to Doha and QR3 to London, leaving Melbourne at 22.30 on 29 April. This can be booked on the Qatar Airways website. The Foreign and Commonwealth Office have worked with Qatar Airways to ensure they have kept this option affordable to enable you to return to the UK safely and quickly. We encourage you to book quickly.
Travel to the Airport:
Nadi Airport is situated 8 km (5 miles) north east of Nadi Town and 116 km (73 Miles) from Suva. Please continue to monitor local advice and our travel advice pages as travel restrictions, lockdowns and curfews may change.
Future options
We expect this to be the only UK-organised charter flight and we strongly encourage British nationals who reside in the UK to take this opportunity to return home.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Arrival in the UK
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
If you cannot leave Fiji at this time, you should:
follow the advice of local authorities, including local measures to help minimise your risk of exposure to coronavirus
find accommodation that’s suitable for your needs
keep in regular contact with family and friends at home, so they know you are safe and well
See more information and advice about staying where you are if you cannot return to the UK
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British High Commission on +679 3229 100 or +679 3229 132. The High Commission cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone. This page will be updated when departure options become available. To get the latest information, sign up for travel advice email alerts.
Further information
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
