

Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Fiji
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Fiji, attacks cannot be ruled out.
Political situation
There can be political instability and there is the potential for civil unrest. Avoid demonstrations, rallies or street gatherings. Avoid any areas of obvious military or police activity.
Crime
The risk of serious crime is generally low, but there are occasional incidents including sexual assault.
Protecting your belongings
Petty theft is quite common. Be careful of your belongings in cities and other popular tourist destinations. To reduce the risk:
avoid carrying everything in one bag
carry a copy of the photo page of your passport and leave the original in a secure place
avoid leaving your belongings unattended
be alert when withdrawing money from cash machines
There have been thefts from motor vehicles in Suva. Keep windows and doors locked when driving.
Sexual assault
Take care when walking at night in cities, towns and isolated areas, particularly if you are a woman travelling alone. There have been serious sexual assaults against foreign nationals in Fiji, including British women.
See advice for women travelling abroad.
Drink spiking and methanol poisoning
Alcoholic drinks containing methanol have caused serious illness. There is a risk of methanol poisoning from home brewed alcohol or counterfeit replicas of well-known alcohol brands. Affected drinks may include:
local spirits
spirit-based mixed drinks such as cocktails
counterfeit brand-name spirits
To protect yourself from methanol poisoning you should:
buy alcoholic drinks only from licensed liquor stores, bars, clubs, restaurants, and hotels
avoid home-made alcoholic drinks
check bottle seals are intact
check labels for poor print quality or incorrect spelling
If the label, smell or taste seems wrong, do not drink the alcohol. These are signs it is illegal and could contain methanol. TravelHealthPro lists the symptoms of methanol poisoning.
Seek urgent medical attention if you or someone you are travelling with show signs of methanol poisoning.
Scams
There has been an increase in credit card fraud. This may include credit card skimming devices or other types of data theft. Take care when paying with credit cards or withdrawing money from ATMs.
Mobile phone coverage
Phone coverage in rural areas and outlying islands can be limited or non-existent. Many UK mobile phones do not work, as your provider may not have an international roaming agreement in Fiji.
You can buy a Fiji SIM card at Nadi International Airport and at convenience stores and supermarkets. You must register your SIM card if you buy it locally.
Laws and cultural differences
Illegal drugs and prison sentences
Possession of even small quantities of illegal drugs can lead to imprisonment and a large fine. Possession of any amount of marijuana carries a 3-month prison sentence.
Kava-drinking ceremonies
Kava is a traditional drink in Fiji used in kava ceremonies. If you’re invited to take part in a kava-drinking ceremony, be aware of the potential risks of liver toxicity.
Nudity
Topless bathing and nudity in public is illegal. Cover your shoulders and knees in rural villages and during kava ceremonies.
LGBT+ travellers
Homosexuality was decriminalised in February 2010, but there can be local sensitivities, particularly when visiting rural communities.
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Outdoor activities and adventure tourism
Water-based activities
There are dangerous rip tides along reefs and river estuaries. Unless you have reliable local knowledge, swim from beaches that have lifeguards on duty and follow the flag warning system. 
See water safety on holiday from the Royal Life Saving Society.  
If you take part in any water activities, make sure you use a reputable, fully licensed company with up-to-date equipment and necessary safety features. 
See ⁠watersports safety advice from the Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents (ROSPA).
Scuba diving 
Diving schools may have limited resources and do not always observe safety and maintenance standards. Always:  
ask to see a dive operator’s credentials  
check the conditions on your insurance policy – some policies require dive instructors to have certain qualifications  
make sure safety equipment looks to be in good condition  
make sure oxygen is available on the boat  
If you have not had any previous diving experience, check what to do if something goes wrong, including how to call for help while at sea.
There’s only one hyperbaric (recompression) chamber in Fiji, at the Colonial War Memorial Hospital in Suva. It is not always working. Check its status before scuba diving and get advice from your dive instructor or dive team. Make sure your insurance covers diving and medical evacuation costs.
Be aware of jellyfish and follow local advice.
Transport risks
Road travel
If you are planning to drive in Fiji, see information on driving abroad.
You can use a UK driving licence to drive in Fiji.
Many roads in Fiji are in poor condition and can be dangerous. Roads are particularly hazardous at night due to a lack of street lighting and the chance of pedestrians or stray animals on the road. Avoid road travel outside of urban areas at night. Vehicle safety regulations are rarely enforced and driving standards are poor.
Severe weather can lead to roads becoming damaged, blocked or washed away. Seek local advice before you set out.
Taxis and minibuses
Only use licensed taxis that have a yellow registration plate.
Not all minibuses are licensed. Only use those with yellow number plates. Unlicensed minibuses are probably not insured.
Sea travel
Check the boat operator’s credentials and safety equipment before boarding boats or vessels travelling between islands. Overloaded vessels are in danger of capsizing or sinking, particularly in poor weather conditions. They may not have enough life-saving equipment for everyone on board.
Extreme weather and natural disasters
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards.
Earthquakes
Fiji is in an earthquake zone. There can be occasional tremors, which could trigger tsunami alerts. Make sure you understand the local safety procedures for earthquakes and tsunamis.
The US Federal Emergency Management Agency has advice about what to do before, during and after an earthquake or tsunami.
Tropical cyclones
Tropical cyclone season normally runs from November to April, but cyclones occur throughout the year. During the cyclone season there is a greater risk of strong winds and heavy rain. Cyclones can cause flooding and landslides, often damaging or blocking roads and resulting in road closures.
Follow weather updates from Fiji Meteorological Service, local newspapers and Radio Fiji GOLD. The National Disaster Management Office has information on how to prepare.
