This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Fiji as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Fiji to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Registering with the British High Commission
If you are a UK/EU national seeking to leave Fiji to return home, send your details to SuvaCS@fco.gov.uk with the following information for all passengers:
full name as it appears on passport
passport number
nationality
date of birth
current location
telephone numbers if you have one
intended destination
In registering your details, you will receive regular information about the situation in Fiji, including if any further flights become available.
Moving around in Fiji
There is a national curfew in place from 10pm to 5am.
Domestic travel is returning to normal following the end of the suspension of travel to Fiji’s outer islands. Fiji’s authorities are urging users of public transport to observe social distancing.
If you’re looking to leave Fiji and are visiting the outer islands, you’re advised to return to the main island of Viti Levu immediately. Further cases of Covid-19 in Fiji could see the reintroduction of restrictions on internal travel and/or a lockdown of affected areas. If you remain in the outer islands there is no guarantee you will be able to leave for some time. More information on the latest restrictions are available on the Fiji Government website.
Health
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Fiji.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Fiji, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
