Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

Coronavirus: stay up to date
Cases of coronavirus (COVID-19) have been confirmed in Fiji. See information on measures introduced in Fiji to limit the spread of the virus. The situation may change rapidly, including in neighbouring countries. Follow local guidance at all times. Find out how to return to the UK from Fiji.
See coronavirus travel advice for guidance on international travel.
Sign up for email alerts for Fiji travel advice.
The Fijian Government has announced a number of steps to curb the spread of coronavirus. This includes some measures to limit internal travel. We recommend British visitors return to the main island of Viti Levu immediately. On 3 April Suva will enter 14 days of lockdown. No members of the public will be able to leave or enter the city for 14 days, except to access medical care. A national curfew from 10pm to 5am came into effect on Monday March 30. From 3 April, the curfew will be extended to include the hours from 8pm to 5am. Nadi Airport is closed to all scheduled flights. If you are visiting Fiji and unable to leave you should contact us, please see the High Commission social media on how to do this. Ensure you follow local guidance at all times. See Coronavirus
We encourage British nationals in Fiji to register their details with the British High Commission. If you are a UK/EU national seeking to leave Fiji to return home please send us your details by emailing SuvaCS@fco.gov.uk. See Return to UK
Cyclone season is normally between November and April but cyclones can occur throughout the year. Severe weather may result in flooding, landslides, and disruption to essential services and infrastructure. See our Tropical Cyclones page for further advice about what to do if you’re caught up in a storm. See Natural disasters
Around 20,000 British nationals visit Fiji every year. Most visits to Fiji are trouble-free.
As a developing state, Fiji’s health system is not as comprehensive as you would find in the UK.
UK health authorities have classified Fiji as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For more information and advice, visit the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
Take care when visiting isolated locations, especially if you’re on your own. There have been serious cases of sexual assaults against foreign women in Fiji. See Crime
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Fiji, attacks can’t be ruled out. See Terrorism
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.
Take out comprehensive travel and medical insurance before you travel.
