Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for France on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Some travel operators such as airlines may specify types of masks to be worn on board e.g. surgical masks, and may encourage you to take spares for long journeys. Please check with your travel operator before travelling.
PCR and rapid antigen tests are no longer free for international travellers visiting France. The minimum cost of these supervised tests is €44 for PCR tests and €22 for rapid antigen tests. If you have a prescription from a French medical practitioner or are identified as having been in contact with someone who has a confirmed COVID-19 diagnosis, these tests remain free so long as you present a valid UK European Health Insurance Card (EHIC) or the new UK Global Health Insurance Card (GHIC). The process for accessing these tests in France is via a list of places available from the French government site.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in France and for details on France’s current entry requirements and restrictions.
Returning to the UK
Travelling from and returning to the UK
Check what you must do to travel abroad and return to England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
If you plan to pass through another country to return to the UK, check the travel advice for the country you’re transiting. If you will pass through a red list country, book your hotel quarantine package before travelling to the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements. You should contact local authorities for information on testing facilities.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for coronavirus in France and you’re fully vaccinated (including a booster, in line with French pass vaccinal requirements) you must self-isolate for 7 days from the day on which you first develop symptoms, or 7 days from the date of the positive test result. Self-isolation can be reduced to 5 days if you take a negative PCR or antigen test (supervised, not self-administered) on day 5 and you have not displayed any symptoms over the previous 48 hours. If you’re unvaccinated or partially vaccinated you must self-isolate for 10 days from the day on which you first develop symptoms, or 10 days from the date of the positive test result. Self-isolation can be reduced to 7 days if you take a negative PCR or antigen test (supervised, not self-administered) on day 7 and you have not displayed any symptoms over the previous 48 hours.
You will have to extend your stay until the end of your isolation period. This could be in your current accommodation. The French authorities do not provide or pay for quarantine accommodation.
Further information is available on the TousAntiCovid application. The French health ministry also operates a dedicated coronavirus helpline on +33 (0)800 130 000.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in France
Face masks are mandatory in all enclosed public spaces. The use of face masks is mandatory in some city centres. Please check local guidance for more information. Across France, masks are still compulsory in large gatherings, queues, markets and stadiums.
Wearing masks on public transport is compulsory for all users aged 11 and over, with fines for those who are not compliant. Masks are also compulsory in taxis and private hire vehicles without a plexiglass screen.
Some travel operators such as airlines may specify types of masks to be worn on board e.g. surgical masks, and may encourage you to take spares for long journeys. Please check with your travel operator before travelling.
Certain forms of transport, such as cross country trains, will require passengers to demonstrate their COVID-19 status through the “pass sanitaire/pass vaccinal”. For further details on what this involves see the ‘public spaces and services’ section below.
There are no internal travel restrictions in France, however measures may change at short notice either at national or at local level. You should visit the French government Coronavirus Information page or use the ‘TousAntiCovid’ digital app for further information and to stay up to date on restrictions
Public spaces and services
Until 16 February, food or drink are not permitted in a range of venues, including cinemas, theatres, sporting venues and on transport (including long-distance journeys). Food and drink are only permitted sitting down rather than standing up in bars and cafes. Standing concerts are banned and nightclubs are closed.
Pass vaccinal
On 24 January 2022, the “pass vaccinal” (vaccine pass) entered into force, replacing the “pass sanitaire” for people aged 16 and over to demonstrate their COVID-19 vaccination status to access services and venues (for the latest list see the French government website). The following proof can be used in order to obtain a ‘pass vaccinal’:
Proof of full vaccination, including a booster dose if you’re 18 years and 1 month old (as outlined below in ‘Proof of vaccination’).
Proof of recovery for COVID-19, dated more than 11 days ago and less than 6 months ago.
Proof of a medical exemption from vaccination, including a document from your doctor to this effect.
Proof of a negative test result will no longer be accepted. Those aged 12-15 will continue to be able to use a “pass sanitaire”, for which proof of a negative test will continue to be accepted.
From 15 February 2022, adults who have been fully vaccinated for more than four months need to demonstrate they have received an approved COVID-19 booster injection in order to access the ‘pass vaccinal’ in France. This applies to visiting tourists and those residing in France. You can access the QR code for your booster in the same way as for previous injections.
The list of places which require a pass to enter is subject to change: the latest list for the ‘pass vaccinal’ is available on the French government’s website (in French). This currently includes, but is not limited to, leisure facilities such as restaurants, bars, museums and sport venues, including ski lifts, and long-distance transport.
Pass sanitaire
Children aged between 12 and 15 years need to continue to demonstrate their COVID-19 status through the “pass sanitaire” in order to access services and venues. This includes leisure facilities (bars, restaurants, museums, cinemas), hospitals, retirement homes and modes of transport such as long distance train and bus journeys and planes. Adults can continue to access hospitals, care homes and health and social care facilities with a negative test result. You can find more information on how to access the “pass sanitaire” from the French government, including the full list of places that require a pass sanitaire to enter.
This can be acquired by fulfilling one of the following three criteria:
A vaccination certificate (see details on proof of vaccination below).
A negative PCR or antigen result from a test taken within the last 24 hours.
A document (dated more than 11 days ago and less than six months ago) proving you have recently recovered from COVID.
Children under 12 are exempt from the ‘pass sanitaire’ and the ‘pass vaccinal’.
Proof of vaccination
The French government recognises vaccination certificates, which conforms to the EU Digital Covid Status Certification framework, illustrating that you are fully vaccinated with a vaccine authorised by the European Medical Authority. This means:
7 days after a second dose of Oxford/AstraZeneca, Pfizer/BioNTech, Moderna
28 days after a single dose of Johnson & Johnson
7 days after a single injection for those able to demonstrate they have already been infected (this only applies to those vaccinated in France)
You may also be required to have a booster dose to be able to obtain the ‘pass vaccinal’ for domestic use in France. Please see the section above for further details.
France will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 recovery and vaccination record. If you are travelling with a printed PDF proof of vaccination status, it must date from 1 November or after to ensure that the certificate can be scanned successfully, if domestic certification is required. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
Those vaccinated in England, Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland can also choose to scan and save the NHS QR code into France’s “TousAntiCovid” app.
More information on how to obtain a certificate/QR code is available, if vaccinated in Northern Ireland and if vaccinated in Scotland.
Other Covid status certification that conforms with the EU Digital COVID Certification scheme (e.g. from other EU member states) can also be used for entry into settings where there is a COVID status certification requirement in France.
Facemasks are mandatory in all enclosed public spaces. This applies to those aged 11 and over. It is no longer required to wear a facemask in all outdoor public spaces, with some exceptions, including gatherings, queues, markets, and stadiums. Failure to comply with these restrictions may result in a fine. Please refer to local guidance for more information.
Healthcare in France
The French government advises those with possible coronavirus symptoms to call 112. You should not go directly to the doctor or emergency services.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in France.
COVID-19 Vaccines if you live in France
Wherever possible British nationals should aim to be vaccinated in the country where they live. We will update this page when the French Government announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The France national vaccination programme started in December 2020 and is using the AstraZeneca, Janssen (Johnson and Johnson), Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna vaccines. The French Government have said that residents of France, regardless of their nationality, will have access to the vaccine in France.
The French authorities have issued guidance on how to get a vaccination in France including details of how to book an appointment (only available in French) and which groups are currently being offered the vaccine. Further information on COVID-19 vaccinations in France can be found on the French Government’s coronavirus information website and on their frequently asked questions page.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in France, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
How to obtain a French ‘pass sanitaire/pass vaccinal’
If you receive your COVID-19 vaccination in France, you can obtain a French ‘pass sanitaire or pass vaccinal’ (which is a version of the EU Digital Covid Certificate) in order to travel internationally. To do so, you should scan the QR code on your paper vaccine certification via the French app TousAntiCovid. Once scanned, TousAntiCovid will save your certification in the ‘wallets’ section of the app, allowing you to present it at the border when you travel. The Certificate proves that you have been vaccinated against COVID-19, received a negative test result, or recovered from COVID-19. It will help facilitate your travel within the EU and, in some countries, you can use it to demonstrate your COVID-19 status to businesses and other organisations. For further information visit the French government’s website on the “pass sanitaire” and the “pass vaccinal”.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
You should monitor the French government website (in French) to inform your decisions regarding travel to, from or within France.
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
