This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in France set and enforce entry rules. For further information contact their embassy, high commission or consulate. You may also check with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and travel documents meet their requirements.
If you are travelling to France for work, read the guidance on visas and permits as the rules have changed since 1 January 2021.
COVID-19 entry requirements
Travel between the UK and France
All those wishing to travel from the UK to France, regardless of vaccination status, can only do so for essential reasons, as defined by the French authorities. French nationals, as well as residents in France, are considered to have an essential reason for travel. On 6 January 2022, the French government introduced additional categories to the list of essential reasons for travel, including for some business travel and for UK nationals who are resident in other EU Member states or assimilated countries who intend to transit France to return to their country of residence. If you are considering travel to France you should consult the detail on the full list of essential reasons for travel on the French government website.
Travellers should be aware of the following requirements:
All travellers aged 12 years and over must present a negative PCR or antigen test result taken within 24 hours pre-departure.
Before travel, anyone coming from the UK must provide contact details, including the address they will be staying at, to the French authorities via an online form.
All travellers must present a completed international travel form to prove the reason for essential travel. This can be found on the French government’s website. In exceptional circumstances, the French Consulate in London may be able to assist with travel for a compelling reason not listed as an ‘essential reason for travel’.
All travellers must provide a completed ‘sworn statement’ (déclaration sur l’honneur) form self-certifying they are not suffering from symptoms associated with coronavirus and have not been in contact with confirmed cases in the preceding fortnight. This can be found on the French government’s website.
Upon arrival in France, all travellers must self-isolate for 48 hours, after which time a negative PCR or antigen test is required to exit self-isolation. Without a negative test result, you will be required to self-isolate for 10 days. Please note that these cannot be self-administered tests. Only those taken by a professional at a testing site or pharmacy are valid for leaving self-isolation.
You should not use the NHS testing service to get a test in order to facilitate your travel to another country. You should arrange to take a private test from a private coronavirus testing provider. Test results must be certified by a laboratory to be accepted.
Adults travelling from the UK to France by Eurostar who are not fully vaccinated will be asked to take an additional COVID-19 test upon arrival at Gare du Nord (vaccination status will be checked ahead of departure at St Pancras). Anyone testing positive for COVID-19 will be subject to mandatory self-isolation for 10 days.
HGV or van drivers arriving in France from the UK are able to continue doing so without providing a negative COVID-19 test to enter France.
Transiting through France from the UK
On 6 January 2022, the French government updated their list of essential reasons for travel from the UK to include transit through France for UK nationals who are resident in other EU Member States or assimilated countries.
Transit for less than 24 hours in the international zone of an airport is also permitted. To consult the detail on the full list of essential reasons for travel see the French government website.
Travel from outside of the European Union (except UK – see above)
All travellers (aged 12 years or over) travelling from outside of the European Union to France must show proof of a negative COVID-19 test result from either a PCR or antigen test. Tests must be taken no more than 48 hours before travel for fully vaccinated travellers and no more than 24 hours before travel for those who are not fully vaccinated. Test results must be certified by a laboratory to be accepted. See the French government’s website for further information.
Non-vaccinated arrivals from the European Union must show proof of a negative COVID-19 test result taken within 24 hours before departure.
France has a colour-code system governing international travel to and from France. There are four categories of measures: green, amber, red and ‘scarlet red’. ‘Scarlet red’ is a new category introduced in response to the Omicron variant. From Saturday 18 December, arrivals from the UK are subject to separate requirements (see above). You should regularly check the status of the country you are travelling to or from on the French government’s website.
Amber list countries:
From Saturday 18 December, arrivals from the UK are subject to separate requirements (see above). Entry requirements from other countries differ depending on whether you are fully vaccinated or not.
Unvaccinated (or not fully vaccinated) arrivals in France from countries on the French amber list will only be permitted to travel for essential reasons (from the list specified for this category of country). If you are not fully vaccinated, you will need to have an essential reason to travel from France to a country on France’s amber list.
Those who are not fully vaccinated will need to present the following documents:
a completed International Travel Certificate to confirm their essential reason for travel.
a completed ‘sworn statement’ (déclaration sur l’honneur) form self-certifying they are not suffering from symptoms associated with coronavirus and have not been in contact with confirmed cases in the preceding fortnight, and that they will self-isolate for seven days after arrival. This can be found on the French government’s website.
for unvaccinated arrivals from non-EU countries, the pre departure testing window may vary. Please check this page for further information. Test results must be certified by a laboratory to be accepted.
Travellers who are not fully vaccinated will need to self-isolate for 7 days after arrival, then take another PCR test following this period of self-isolation. These cannot be self-administered tests. Only those taken by a professional at a testing site or pharmacy are valid for leaving self-isolation.
Children aged 12 years old or over who are not fully vaccinated and travelling with a fully vaccinated adult are required to present a negative test result (PCR or antigen). In this instance, the child aged 12 years old or over does not need to provide an essential reason for travel, nor do they need to self-isolate on arrival.
Children aged 12 years old or over who are unvaccinated and travelling alone are subject to the same conditions adults who are not fully vaccinated. Children aged 11 years old or younger do not need to present a negative test result to travel.
Travellers who are fully vaccinated do not need an essential reason to travel to France and do not need to self-isolate on arrival. Fully vaccinated travellers will need to present the following documents:
a completed ‘sworn statement’ (déclaration sur l’honneur) form self-certifying they are not suffering from symptoms associated with coronavirus and have not been in contact with confirmed cases in the preceding fortnight. This can be found on the French government’s website
proof of vaccination status
proof of a negative COVID-19 test result taken within 48 hours before departure (PCR or antigen)
Further detail on who is considered fully vaccinated by the French government, and how you can prove your status, can be found below under ‘vaccination status’.
If you are fully vaccinated, you do not need to complete the certificate to leave metropolitan France, unless you are travelling to a country on France’s red list.
Green list countries:
The European area (defined by the French government as EU Member States, Andorra, Holy See, Iceland, Liechtenstein, Monaco, Norway, San Marino and Switzerland) is currently on the French green list. The full list of countries on the green list is available from the French government.
If travelling from a country on the green list, travellers will not need to have an essential reason to enter France or to self-isolate.
If you are travelling from an EU member state, and are not fully vaccinated, you will need to present a negative PCR or antigen test result from within 24 hours of departure. If you are travelling from outside the EU, and you are fully vaccinated, you will need to present a negative test result from within 48 hours of departure.
Check the French government website before travelling.
If you are not fully vaccinated, you will need to present a negative PCR or antigen test result from within 72 hours of departure. This may vary for certain countries - please check the French government website before travelling.
All arrivals will need a completed ‘sworn statement’ (déclaration sur l’honneur) form self-certifying they are not suffering from symptoms associated with coronavirus and have not been in contact with confirmed cases in the preceding fortnight. This can be found on the French government’s website.
The French government does not impose restrictions on travellers leaving France for a country on its green list.
Red list countries:
The full list of countries on the French red list is available from the French government. A full list of the documents you will need to complete can be found on the French government’s website.
If not fully vaccinated, you need an essential reason for travel and will have to self-isolate for 10 days, and could be subject to security checks.
Scarlet red list countries:
The full list of countries on the French scarlet red list is available from the French government A full list of documents you will need to complete can be found on the French government’s website.
If not fully vaccinated, you need an essential reason for travel, you will have to self-isolate for 10 days, and could be subject to compliance checks.
Vaccination status
The French Government recognises the following vaccines: Pfizer, Moderna, Oxford/AstraZeneca, and Johnson & Johnson (the vaccines recognised by the European Medical Agency). “Fully vaccinated” is defined by the completion of a vaccination schedule, specifically:
1 week after the second dose of Pfizer, Moderna, Oxford/AstraZeneca
4 weeks after the single and only dose of Johnson & Johnson
1 week after the single dose of any of the above vaccines if you have previously tested positive for COVID-19
Demonstrating your COVID-19 status
France will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 recovery and vaccination record at the border. For details on how to demonstrate your COVID-19 status in domestic settings in France, see the Coronavirus page. If you are travelling with a printed PDF proof of vaccination status, it must date from 1 November to ensure that the certificate can be scanned successfully. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
Travel from France to the UK
UK citizens and residents, as well their spouses, partners and children, are permitted to travel from France to the UK. However, return to France will be subject to the restrictions outlined above.
Anyone wishing to travel from France to the UK must complete a Certificate to leave Metropolitan France, which specifies exemptions for travel. Your reason for leaving will be checked before your departure by the French authorities.
If you intend to travel to England, Scotland, or Wales, including UK nationals returning home from travel abroad, you must follow the rules for entering the UK. For further details on accessing COVID-19 tests in France where required, please see the ‘Coronavirus’ page.
Travel to French overseas territories
Regular flights between metropolitan France and its overseas territories resumed in late June 2020.
There are different restrictions depending on which overseas territory you are going to. Please refer to the French government’s website to check the measures in place in each territory.
See also travel advice pages for the French overseas territory you are visiting.
Further information
If your vaccine certificate shows a different name to your passport (e.g. marital / birth name), please also carry any supporting documentation (e.g. marriage certificate) when travelling.
Check our COVID-19 advice on things to consider, and be prepared to stay overseas longer than planned.
Regular entry requirements
Visas
The rules for travelling or working in European countries changed on 1 January 2021:
You can travel to countries in the Schengen area, which France is part of, for up to 90 days in any 180-day period without a visa. This applies if you travel as a tourist, to visit family or friends, to attend business meetings, cultural or sports events, or for short-term studies or training. Find more information here
If you are travelling to France and other Schengen countries without a visa, make sure your whole visit is within the 90-day limit. Visits to Schengen countries within the previous 180 days before you travel count towards your 90 days.
To stay longer, to work or study, for business travel or for other reasons, you will need to meet the French government’s entry requirements. To see what your individual entry requirement might be, you should visit the France Visas website
if you stay in France with a residence permit or long-stay visa, this does not count towards your 90-day visa-free limit
British citizens who are unable to return to the UK before the expiry of their visa / permit or the end of their visa-free limit should contact their local prefecture in France.
Any time you spent in France or other Schengen countries before 1 January 2021 does not count towards your 90-day visa-free limit.
Check your passport is stamped if you enter or exit the Schengen area through France as a visitor. Border guards will use passport stamps to check you’re complying with the 90-day visa-free limit for short stays in the Schengen area. If relevant entry or exit stamps are not in your passport, border guards will presume that you have overstayed your visa-free limit.
You can show evidence of when and where you entered or exited the Schengen area, and ask the border guards to add this date and location in your passport. Examples of acceptable evidence include boarding passes and tickets.
At French border control, you may need to:
Queue in separate lanes from EU, EEA or Swiss citizens.
Show proof of where you intend to stay, for example, a booking confirmation or proof of address if visiting your own property (e.g. second home). Further information is detailed below.
Show proof of insurance for your trip. Please check the guidance on travel insurance here.
Show a return or onward ticket
Prove that you have enough money for the duration of your stay. Further information is detailed below.
France categorises possible accommodation arrangements for visitors as follows:
Staying with family, friends or third party - you may be asked to provide an ’attestation d’accueil’ (welcome invitation) from your host if you are staying with friends or family. The French resident hosting you will need to obtain this attestation d’accueil from their local Mayor’s office, and send the original attestation before you enter France. You should also be prepared to show proof of funds of at least €32.50 per day, for the duration of your stay. If you do not have an ‘attestation d’accueil’ you should be ready to fulfil the requirements of option 4 below.
You have a second home in France - you will need to be able to prove ownership or tenancy of your property e.g. a tax or utility bill.
You are staying in a hotel or other commercially provided accommodation - you may be asked for confirmation of your reservation when entering France. You should also be prepared to show proof of funds of at least €65 per day for the duration of your stay.
You do not have an ‘attestation d’accueil’ or any pre-booked accommodation - in this instance, you may be asked to prove you have sufficient means for your visit, of at least €120 per day for the duration of your stay.
British citizens who are unable to return to the UK before the expiry of their visa/permit or the end of their visa-free limit due to COVID-19 restrictions should contact their local immigration authorities in France.
For further information on these requirements, visit the French government’s website on travel conditions for British citizens.
If you are resident in France your passport should not be stamped. You should proactively show your proof of residence as well as your valid passport at French border control. For further information, see our Living in France guide.
Passport validity
If you are planning to travel to an EU country (except Ireland), or Switzerland, Norway, Iceland, Liechtenstein, Andorra, Monaco, San Marino or Vatican City, you must meet the Schengen area rules.
Your passport must meet 2 requirements. It must be:
less than 10 years old on the day you enter (check the ‘date of issue’)
valid for at least 3 months after the day you plan to leave (check the ‘expiry date’)
We are asking the European Commission to clarify the 10-year rule. Their guidance for Schengen border guards may not be updated until the spring of 2022. Until then, for some Schengen countries your passport may need to be less than 10 years old during your whole visit, and the 3 months at the end of your visit may need to be within 10 years of your passport’s issue date.
Check both the issue date and the expiry date in your passport. If you renewed your passport early, extra months may have been added to its expiry date. This could affect the requirement for your passport to be less than 10 years old.
Contact your travel provider or embassy of the country you are visiting if you think that your passport does not meet both these requirements. Renew your passport if you need to.
Travelling with children
From 15 January 2017, any child (under the age of 18) who is (a) living in France and (b) leaving France unaccompanied by a parent or guardian, must present the following documents on departure at the French border: (i) the child’s own ID card or passport, (ii) a completed AST authorisation form signed by a parent/guardian (Authorisation de Sortie du Territoire) and (iii) a copy of the ID card or passport of the parent or guardian who has signed the AST form. For more information visit the French Ministry of Interior website.
See the section on Amber list countries for more information on child vaccination status.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are accepted for entry, airside transit and exit from France.
Travelling with pets
If you wish to travel with a pet dog, cat or ferret to the EU, please read our guidance. You can no longer use a pet passport issued in Great Britain (England, Wales and Scotland) for travel to France. If your pet passport was issued in an EU Member State or Northern Ireland it remains valid for travel to France.
If you wish to travel to France with other pets (for non-commercial means) - rodents, rabbits/hares, ornamental tropical fish, reptiles, amphibians and invertebrates (except bees and crustaceans), you will need a health document which must be signed by a vet.
Travel with pets for non-commercial means is limited to five animals.
You can find more information (in French) at this link and by then scrolling down and clicking on the link to a pdf document entitled note d’information sur l’importation d’animaux de compagnie en provenance de pays tiers. The health document mentioned above is on page 17 of the pdf (annex IV).
On arrival in France, pet owners travelling with pets will need to enter through a designated travellers’ point of entry (TPE) e.g. Calais, Dunkirk.
Customs checks upon entry into France
There are limits on the volume and value amounts for certain goods that you can bring into France as a traveller. You should check the French Directorate General of Customs and Excise website to confirm the latest allowances per traveller.
