At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Healthcare
The rules on access to healthcare will stay the same until 31 December 2020.
You should get a free European Health Insurance Card (EHIC) before leaving the UK. After 31 December 2020, your UK-issued EHIC might not be valid.
The EHIC entitles you to state provided medical treatment that may become necessary during your trip. Any treatment provided is on the same terms as French nationals. If you don’t have your EHIC with you or you’ve lost it, you can call the Department of Health Overseas Healthcare Team (+44 191 218 1999) to get a Provisional Replacement Certificate.
It is important to take out comprehensive travel insurance that includes cover for emergency medical treatment and associated costs. The existing EHIC arrangements are not an alternative to travel insurance, as some health-related costs, including for medical repatriation, ongoing medical treatment and non-urgent treatment, are not covered. Read more about what your travel insurance should cover.
If you’re living in France, you can also find more information on healthcare for residents in our Living In France guide.
If you need medication while in France, remember to bring a prescription with you.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 112 for an English speaking emergency service and ask for an ambulance. If you are referred to a medical facility for treatment you should contact your insurance/medical assistance company immediately.
Coronavirus
There is an ongoing outbreak of coronavirus (COVID-19) in France. The French Government outlined new measures on 16 March to stem the spread of coronavirus. This includes limiting travel to journeys that are absolutely necessary, effective from midday 17 March for an initial period of 15 days. Necessary journeys include to purchase food, to seek medical care, urgent family reasons including childcare or assisting vulnerable people, journeys to work where working from home is not possible, or to exercise.
Anyone making such a journey will need to download and complete an “attestation” or declaration certifying their reason for travel. This declaration is available on the French Ministry of Interior website. Please note you are able to hand write and sign a similar declaration if you are unable to access printing facilities.
The French Government has said it will enforce these measures and fine those who are not compliant. For more information, please read the guidance (in French) issued by the French Government on the French Government and French Ministry of the Interior websites. You should follow instructions of the French authorities.
These measures are in addition to those already announced by the French Government, including the closure of all non-essential establishments open to the public from midnight, 14 March, until further notice (i.e. restaurants, cafes, cinemas). Food shops, pharmacies, petrol stations, and banks will stay open. On 15 March, the French Government also announced that public transport will be progressively reduced over the course of the next week.
You should monitor the French government website (in French) to inform your decisions regarding travel to, from or within France.
The French government advises those with possible coronavirus symptoms to call 112. You should not go directly to the doctor or emergency services.
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
Coronavirus: French Border Crossings
On 16 March, the French Government announced that the EU would suspend travel between the EU and non-European countries for an initial period of 30 days from midday 17 March. The French Government confirmed that these restrictions will not apply to UK nationals.
The French authorities have also confirmed there are now border checks in place with Italy, Spain and Germany.
UK nationals can enter France if they have completed the necessary “attestation” (see above) confirming that their travel is an absolutely necessary journey.
There is separate guidance for the freight transport industry published jointly by the Department for Transport and the FCO.
Some countries are imposing a compulsory period of quarantine for all travellers from France. If you are travelling from or through France, please check the situation at your destination before you travel
Ski Resorts
On 15 March, the National Union for Ski Regions and the National Association for Mayors in Regions with Ski Resorts announced that all ski resorts in France are closed with immediate effect until further notice. Please consult your relevant tour, travel operator and insurance provider as to your immediate next steps.
Impact on transport
The availability of transport from France to the UK is subject to change. Cross-Channel train and ferry services continue to operate but some are reducing services. Flights to the UK continue, however some airlines are cancelling flights. The availability of transport may reduce further. You should contact your carrier or tour operator for updates and keep your travel plans under careful review.
.
