Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

There remain commercial options to return to the UK from France.
If you live in the UK and are currently visiting France, you’re strongly advised to return now by commercial means. Don’t run the risk of getting stranded.
UK special charter flights will only operate for priority countries where commercial flights are not possible. You should not assume that these flights will become available in countries where commercial routes are operating. Please do not contact the contracted travel management company if no flight is advertised here.
The availability of transport from France to the UK is subject to change. Many airlines and cross-Channel operators are operating very substantially reduced services for passenger traffic. Passengers should check with their operator before departing, and may still be subject to severe disruption.
Travel options to transport hubs, such as airports, ferry terminals and train stations are also majorly disrupted and options to buy food and refreshments are reduced.
On 8 April, French authorities introduced a requirement to complete a certificate for International travel from abroad to mainland France in order to enter France. This certificate should be completed before entering France, in order to be shown to French border authorities on entry and, where appropriate, transportation companies prior to boarding. If you do not complete the certificate, you may be unable to complete your journey. You can produce a handwritten copy of the text in the attestation if you are unable to access a printer.
In order to travel within or to transit through France, you should either complete an Attestation de déplacement dérogatoire to certify your reason for travel or an “Attestation déplacement professionnel”, if travelling for essential professional reasons. This “attestation” (declaration) should be completed before starting your journey, and, if entering France, does not replace the requirement for an “International travel from abroad to mainland France” certificate. You can produce a handwritten copy of the text in the attestation if you are unable to access a printer. Further information, including links to both these documents, is available on the Ministry of Interior webpage.
Ferries
P&O and DFDS continue to operate with reduced services for cross-Channel routes. Please check with your operator before travelling.
Flights
Flights departing from French airports may be cancelled or rescheduled.
British Airways continue to operate limited services from other airports in France. Flights between mainland France and French overseas territories are formally suspended. However, there are limited flights from Réunion (Saint Denis Airport) to mainland France (Paris Charles de Gaulle airport) with Air Austral and Air France, and occasional flights from other overseas territories may be available.
Please check with your airline for the latest information.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Travelling to the airport
Paris-CDG (Charles de Gaulle/Roissy) : from 29 March and until further notice, all flights operating from terminals 1, 3, 2C, 2D and 2G will be transferred to other terminals.
RER B to Paris-CDG is running at reduced frequency.
From 6 April, Le Bus Direct from Paris to Paris Charles de Gaulle (Roissy) airport is suspended.
Access to terminals at Paris Charles de Gaulle (Roissy) airport is limited to employees and passengers (with a booking) travelling for exceptional reasons only. Taxis and public transport are available for these journeys.
Rail/Tunnel
Eurostar is operating limited services between Paris and London. Eurotunnel Le Shuttle is operating a limited service through the Channel Tunnel for vehicles.
See more information and advice about staying where you are if you cannot return to the UK.
Arrival in the UK
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Further information
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
