The Rugby World Cup will take place across nine cities in France from 8 September to 28 October 2023. If you are travelling to attend the World Cup you should monitor the official France Rugby World Cup and Rugby World websites for more information. You can also sign up to receive email alerts for when the France Travel Advice page is updated.
Before you go
Entry Requirements
Make sure to check the entry requirements for France, especially the information on passport validity and visa-free travel for visits within the 90-day limit.
You may need to show proof of where you intend to stay. Read about documents you may need for short stays. This will differ depending on where you are staying.
Health
See the full health section for more information, including what to do if you need to bring a prescription or over-the-counter medication into France.
Before travelling to the tournament, you should make sure that you have a travel insurance policy that will cover you for your trip and any planned activities. A Global Health Insurance Card (GHIC) or European Health Insurance Card (EHIC) is not an alternative to travel insurance and you should have both before you travel. A GHIC or EHIC does not cover all health-related costs, for example, co-payments, medical repatriation, and non-urgent treatment. Read more about what your travel insurance should cover.
Match tickets
You should check the France Rugby World Cup website for ticket information and only purchase match tickets from official providers. Match tickets bought through unofficial means may not be valid. Anyone who engages in selling tickets through unofficial means may be prosecuted.
Stadium entry
Luggage and specific items may be prohibited in the stadium grounds. Restrictions may vary between stadiums. Check the France Rugby World Cup FAQ page for more information.
When you travel to the tournament
Local laws and customs
You must be able to prove your identity in France either by providing documents when asked or within 4 hours at a police station. Make sure to look after your passport.
See safety and security advice for more information, for example on crime, terrorism, driving, carrying ID.
Crime
You should take sensible precautions against street and car crime. Thieves use distraction techniques, and often work in teams. Don’t leave your passport or other valuable items alone in vehicles. See safety and security advice.
Drink driving laws
France has strict drink driving laws. Police regularly carry out roadside checks for alcohol and drugs. Penalties include fines, loss of licence and prison. You can be given on-the-spot fines for a variety of driving offences, including speeding.
Travelling around France
Transport routes around the stadiums will be very busy for the duration of the tournament, and local authorities may ask fans to access or leave the stadium by specific routes. Make sure you plan your journey and leave plenty of time, particularly on match days when travelling to the stadium, to avoid issues.
For more information on travel in and around France during the tournament see the official France Rugby World Cup website.
If you’re planning to hire a car or use taxis, see safety and security advice for more information.
Driving in France
See the Transport risks section of the safety and security advice for information on licences and air pollution stickers required in certain towns.
Make sure you read the rest of the France Travel Advice in full.
