

Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in France 
Terrorists are very likely to try to carry out attacks in France.
Terrorism attacks could be indiscriminate, including in places visited by tourists and foreign nationals such as:
shopping centres
entertainment establishments and nightlife venues
sporting and cultural events
public transport and national and international transport hubs
places of worship
crowded places and public gatherings
Methods of attack have included knife attacks, shootings, bombings and vehicle attacks. Be vigilant in public places and follow the advice of local French authorities.
There have been several recent high-profile terrorist attacks in France, including: 
in 2023, one person was killed in a knife and hammer attack in central Paris
in 2023, a teacher was killed in a knife attack in a school in Arras
French authorities regularly report that they have disrupted planned attacks and made arrests.
Industrial action and demonstrations 
Industrial action
There can be frequent industrial action across France. This can lead to disruption and delays on roads and public transport. If you’re due to travel to or within France, monitor the media, check your operator’s advice and follow the advice of the authorities. 
Demonstrations
Demonstrations, political gatherings, or marches can take place with little or no warning, particularly in cities. 
Whilst most demonstrations are peaceful, if you’re near areas where they are taking place, you should remain aware of what is happening around you and follow the advice of the police and local authorities.
Crime
Protecting your belongings
Take sensible precautions against street crime and car crime. Pickpockets can work in gangs; one distracts you while the other one goes into your bag.
Thieves and pickpockets operate on the Paris Métro, on RER (train) lines and at mainline stations. To reduce the risk of theft:
keep your passport, credit cards and other valuables in separate bags or pockets
use the inside compartments in bags where possible
carry your bag across your body rather than on your shoulder
keep your belongings close to you in restaurants and bars
do not leave any valuables in your vehicle
do not get distracted around tourist attractions and ATMs
Assaults
There have been several cases of serious assault on the RER line B, which serves:
Paris Charles de Gaulle airport
Orly Airport
Paris Gare du Nord Eurostar terminus
There have also been serious assaults on RER line D, which serves the Stade de France.
Drink spiking and sexual assault
Be alert to the possible use of ‘date rape’ and other drugs including GHB and liquid ecstasy.
Buy your own drinks and always keep them in sight to avoid them being spiked. Alcohol and drugs can reduce your vigilance, making you less in control. If you drink, know your limit. Drinks served in bars in France are often stronger than those in the UK.
Laws and cultural differences
Personal ID
You must be able to prove your identity by providing documents when asked or within 4 hours at a police station. Accepted IDs are:
passport
photocard driving licence
other documentation provided by a government body
Face-covering ban
Covering your face in public places in France is illegal. This includes balaclavas, full veils or any other garment or mask that is used to hide the face. You could get a fine of up to 150 euros if you do not comply.
Forcing someone to hide their face is also a crime and is punishable by a year’s imprisonment and a fine of up to 30,000 euros. If the person forced to hide their face is aged 17 and under, the sentence is doubled. This law applies to tourists.
Outdoor activities and adventure tourism
Swimming safety
Local sea conditions can be dangerous even for strong swimmers. Most beaches have lifeguards and flag warning systems. Make sure you understand the warning system before swimming and always follow the advice closely. See water safety on holiday from the Royal Life Saving Society.
Some beaches have strong undercurrents, especially along the Atlantic coast. There is a risk of riptides (‘baïnes’) in some areas, particularly around the coast of Gironde and Landes. 
Follow local advice if there are jellyfish in the sea.  
Watersports
Before taking part in water-based activities, find out how you and your friends or family will be supervised and supported.
See ⁠watersports safety advice from the Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents (ROSPA).
Trekking and mountaineering
Check weather forecasts and conditions and make sure you’re properly prepared. Do not undertake any activity alone and consider hiring a guide for expert advice. Always leave copies of your itinerary with someone.
In mountainous areas, make sure your insurance covers you for extra costs such as mountain rescue service and helicopter evacuation. In the départements of Savoie and Haute-Savoie, you may need to be transferred to Switzerland for treatment.
Winter sports
Read advice on how to prepare for winter sports. Check current weather forecasts and avalanche risks on the Meteo France website and consider carrying avalanche search equipment if you ski off-piste.
Transport risks
Road travel
If you are planning to drive in France, see information on driving abroad and check the rules of the road in the RAC’s France guide. The guide lists driving regulations and other legal requirements you need to be aware of. 
You can use a UK photocard driving licence to drive in France. If you still have a paper driving licence, you may need to update it to a photocard licence or get the correct version of the international driving permit (IDP) as well. 
Check if you need a UK sticker to drive your car outside the UK. These have replaced GB stickers.
Hire car companies often have stricter requirements for their customers, such as a year of driving experience, a higher minimum age and holding an IDP. 
Penalties
Police give you on-the-spot fines for driving offences, including speeding.
France has strict drink-driving laws and the legal alcohol limit is a third lower than the limit for England and Wales. Police regularly carry out roadside checks for alcohol and drugs. Penalties include fines, loss of licence and prison.
Winter tyres and chains
Vehicles driven in certain mountain regions during the winter period (1 November to 31 March) must be fitted with winter tyres or chains. You could receive a fine if you do not comply. Visit the French public services website for more information (in English) about: 
what type of vehicle this applies to 
what type of tyre or chain should be fitted 
where in France these rules apply.
Air pollution sticker
All vehicles driving in central Paris, Lyon and Grenoble must display a pollution sticker from 8am to 8pm, Monday to Friday. Checks can happen at any time, depending on pollution levels.
Some older vehicles do not qualify for a sticker at all due to their high emissions. These vehicles must not be driven in central Paris from 8am to 8pm, Monday to Friday.
Other cities may also limit vehicle access to town centres and main roads. For more information or to apply for a sticker, visit the French Ministry of Environment website.
Road safety
If you’re involved in a car accident or witness an accident on the motorway, use the orange emergency phones to ask for help.
If you are driving long distances in France:
plan your journey carefully
take into account unknown roads, weather conditions and fatigue
take regular breaks
Keep vehicle doors locked in slow-moving traffic and secure your vehicle if you leave it unattended.
Information on road safety and potential traffic black spots is available on the Bison Futé website (in French). Real-time information on road traffic conditions is also available on Motorways Radio: 107.7 FM in French and in English.
Risk of people entering your vehicle   
There have been attempts by people to enter private vehicles with a view to entering the UK illegally. They may target vehicles like camper vans while stationary or in slow-moving traffic. Sometimes people might try to slow down traffic on roads to ports, including by placing obstacles on the Calais Port road. 
Keep car doors locked, keep moving where it’s safe to do so, and do not leave your vehicle unattended. If it is not safe to proceed, stop and call 112.
Commercial transport firms must take steps to prevent people from entering their vehicles.  
Thefts from caravans and camper vans
Burglaries can happen while you are asleep in your vehicle. Take sensible precautions against vehicle break-ins. You should:
avoid parking in isolated or dark areas of unsupervised camping grounds or car parks
consider installing an alarm
Extreme weather and natural disasters
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards.
Wildfires     
Wildfires can start anywhere in France during the summer months, particularly along the Mediterranean coast and in Corsica.
The French weather service have launched a fire alert map for travellers to check.
Fires have become more frequent because of drought and high temperatures. French authorities may evacuate areas and close roads for safety reasons.
If you’re staying in a high-risk area:
check the local safety and emergency procedures
be vigilant
follow the advice of local authorities
If you are caught in, or witness, a wildfire call the emergency services on 18 (fire) or 112 (emergency services).
See information for property owners about bush clearance which can be mandatory in some areas.
Flooding
There is a risk of flooding in areas of France. If your accommodation is near a river, check flash flood watch (‘vigicrues’) (in French) for more information on current flood risks.
Avalanches
There is a risk of avalanches in mountainous areas. Check current weather forecasts and avalanche risks on the Meteo France website. Follow local advice before you ski or hike and consider carrying avalanche search equipment.
Conditions on roads in mountainous areas can quickly become difficult in winter. Carry water, food, warm clothing and medicines in your vehicle.
