France has put measures in place to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
For information on how to return to the UK from France, see Return to the UK
Moving around in France
For information on entering France, see Entry Requirements
Certificate requirements for travel within France
To be able to travel in Île-de-France on public transport at peak hours (from 06h30 to 09h30 and from 16h00 to 19h00) you will need to complete a travel certificate to certify your reason for travel.
There is a certificate for journeys between the place of residence and the place of professional activity and business trips that cannot be postponed
Another certificate is for journeys taken for the following reasons:
journeys between principal residence and school carried out by the person attending school there or accompanying the person attending school and journeys necessary to complete exams or competitions
for specialised consultations and care that cannot be provided online or near the home
for compelling family reasons, assistance to vulnerable persons and childcare
for an obligation to go to the police or gendarmerie services or to any other service or professional imposed by the administrative police authority or the judicial authority
to take part in tasks of public interest at the request of the administrative authority and under the conditions it specifies
Check the relevant prefecture’s website for information on local travel restrictions.
Local measures
France began progressive deconfinement from 11 May. The Government has categorised each department as ‘red’, ‘orange’ or ‘green’, dictating the extent to which measures can be relaxed. Currently all departments in mainland France are categorised as ‘green’. Certain confinement measures may still apply depending on the department you are in. For more information see the government website.
Since 11 May, wearing masks on public transport is compulsory for all users aged 11 and over, with fines for those who are not compliant. Masks are compulsory in taxis and private hire vehicles without a plexiglass screen.
Ski resorts
On 15 March, the National Union for Ski Regions and the National Association for Mayors in Regions with Ski Resorts announced that all ski resorts in France are closed with immediate effect until further notice. Consult your relevant tour, travel operator and insurance provider as to your immediate next steps.
Health
The French government advises those with possible coronavirus symptoms to call 112. You should not go directly to the doctor or emergency services.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in France.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in France, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
You should monitor the French government website (in French) to inform your decisions regarding travel to, from or within France.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
