The FCDO advises against all but essential travel to:
the whole of France based on the current assessment of COVID-19 risks. Check separate travel advice pages for overseas territories of France.
France restricted travel from the UK from 24:00 (CET) on 20 December. This travel restriction applies to air, car, ferry and train passengers. From 24:00 (CET) on 22 December, until at least 6 January (subject to a possible review), only the following categories of people will be authorised to travel to France from the UK:
French nationals and nationals of the European Area, and their spouses and children;
British and/or third country nationals who are either permanently resident in France, the European Union or the European Area;
British nationals moving to France to settle, on or before 31 December 2020;
British or third country nationals travelling for certain exceptional reasons, listed here: French Embassy London.
All travellers from the UK, including children aged 11 and above, will need to present a negative COVID-19 test result, carried out less than 72 hours before departure.
If you were due to travel to France please contact your travel operator. Further updates will be published when they are available. Further updates will be published when they are available. Please check our advice on things to consider, and be prepared to stay overseas longer than planned.
The health situation in France remains severe. The French government ended national lockdown on 15 December. You no longer need an attestation (or self-certificate) when you leave the house during the day. A curfew is in place from 8pm to 6am, except for the night of 24 December and the following early morning of 25 December. New attestations (or self-certificates) to leave the house during curfew are available on the French Interior Ministry website and through the digital app ‘Tous anti-Covid’.
You can find information and guidance from the French government regarding the current outbreak of coronavirus disease COVID-19 in France on the French government’s website.
If you are returning to the UK from France, you will need to self-isolate on your return (unless you are exempt). Check the latest guidance for England, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales. The guidance includes information on the rules if you’re transiting through France from another country to reach the UK.
Travel to France is subject to entry restrictions
France announced they would be restricting travel from the UK from 24:00 (CET) on 20 December. This travel restriction applies to all air, car, ferry and train passengers. If you are due to travel to France please contact your travel operator. From 24:00 (CET) on 22 December, until at least 6 January (subject to a possible review) only the following categories of people will be authorised to travel to France from the UK:
French nationals and nationals of the European Area
British and/or third country nationals who are either habitually resident in France, the European Union or the European Area, or who must travel for certain essential reasons (as specified by the French government).
British nationals moving to France to settle, on or before 31 December 2020;
British or third country nationals travelling for certain exceptional reasons, listed here: French Embassy London.
All travellers from the UK, including children aged 11 and above, will need to present a negative COVID-19 test result, carried out less than 72 hours before departure.
Please check our advice on things to consider, and be prepared to stay overseas longer than planned.
Although there is no restriction on travel from most European countries, travel from most non-European countries is subject to entry restrictions.
Arrivals by sea and air routes will need to complete a ‘sworn statement’ (déclaration sur l’honneur) form self-certifying they are not suffering from symptoms associated with coronavirus and have not been in contact with confirmed cases in the preceding fortnight.
See Entry requirements for more information before you plan to travel. Further updates will be published when they are available.
Preparing for your return journey to the UK
If you’re returning to the UK from overseas, you will need to:
provide your journey and contact details before you travel
check if you need to self-isolate on your return
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
If you’re planning travel to France, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
The Department for Transport and the FCDO have jointly published separate guidance for the freight transport industry during the coronavirus pandemic.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCDO’s guidance on foreign travel insurance.
On 29 October the French Prime Minister increased France’s national security threat level to “urgent” following a terrorist incident in Nice. You should be vigilant at this time and follow the advice of local authorities.
A number of demonstrations have been taking place across major cities in France.
If demonstrations do turn violent, a heavy police/gendarmerie presence is to be expected. In all cases, you should avoid demonstrations wherever possible and follow the advice of the local authorities.
The UK has left the European Union. The rules on travel to EU countries will stay the same until 31 December 2020. This page will be updated with country-specific information for travellers to France as things change. Sign up for email alerts and view the latest updates for UK nationals travelling to and living in Europe.
Around 17 million British nationals visit France every year. Most visits are trouble-free. The most common problem reported is pickpocketing. See Crime
If you’re living in France, visit our Living in France guide in addition to this travel advice.
Terrorists are very likely to try to carry out attacks in France. Due to ongoing threats to France by Islamist terrorist groups, and recent French military intervention against Daesh (formerly referred to as ISIL), the French government has warned the public to be especially vigilant and has reinforced its security measures. Check the French government’s advice about what to do if a terrorist attack occurs. See Terrorism
There remain some migrants around Calais, who may seek to enter the UK illegally. There have been instances of migrants seeking to slow down traffic on approach roads to ports, including by placing obstacles on the Calais Port approach road. If this happens you should keep moving where it’s safe to do so, or stop and call 112 if isn’t safe to proceed (keeping car doors locked).
All vehicles, including motorbikes, driving in central Paris, Lyon and Grenoble now need to display a special ‘pollution sticker’. See Road travel
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.
The Overseas Business Risk service offers information and advice for British companies operating overseas on how to manage political, economic, and business security-related risks.
The emergency phone number in France is 112. If you need to contact other emergency services, call 15 (medical), 17 (police) or 18 (fire).
