Coronavirus guidance is being updated.
Read what you can and cannot do

Terrorists are very likely to try to carry out attacks in France.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out more about the global threat from terrorism.
Attacks could be indiscriminate including in places frequented by foreign nationals such as shopping centres, entertainment establishments, public transport and places of worship. Methods of attack have included knife attacks, shootings, bombings, as well as vehicle attacks. Due to ongoing threats to France by Islamist terrorist groups, and recent French military intervention against Daesh (formerly referred to as ISIL), the French government has warned the public to be extra vigilant and has reinforced its own domestic and overseas security measures. You should be vigilant in public places and follow the advice of local French authorities.
There is also a threat from individuals with an extreme right-wing terrorist ideology.
In recent years, there have been a number of high profile terrorist attacks across France. Previous attacks in France include:
On 3 January 2020, one person was killed and two injured in a knife attack near Paris.
On 3 October 2019, an employee killed 4 people in a knife attack at the Paris police headquarters.
On 24 May 2019, a bomb exploded near a bakery on a busy street in Lyon wounding 13 people.
On 11 December 2018, a man attacked civilians with a revolver and a knife at a Christmas market in Strasbourg, killing 5 and wounding 11.
On 14 July 2016, 84 people were killed when a truck was driven through a crowd of people on the promenade in Nice.
On 13 November 2015, terrorist attacks at multiple sites across Paris and Saint-Denis killed 130 and injured over 400 more.
Between 7-9 January 2015, 17 people were killed in shooting attacks across the Île-de-France region including at the Charlie Hebdo offices and a supermarket.
There’s a heightened threat of terrorist attack globally against UK interests and British nationals from groups or individuals motivated by the conflict in Iraq and Syria. You should be vigilant at this time.
