Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Cambodia on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
There are limited flight options into Cambodia primarily via Seoul or Singapore. You should check with their airlines about requirements in order to take flights.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Cambodia.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements. The National Institute of Public Health in Phnom Penh is able to provide a health certificate for travel, other health providers may be available. You can also call the COVID-19 hotline on 119 for advice.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Cambodia
On 22 May, the Royal Cambodian Government relaxed COVID-19 measures in Phnom Penh lifting the curfew in yellow zones, and permitting in-restaurant dining and alcohol sales.
The curfew in Siem Reap has been extended until 4 June.
You’re expected to wear a face covering in public places. A fine may be imposed on those that refuse.
Accommodation
Hotel and private rental accommodation is available throughout Cambodia. Some hotels have closed and remain so, and we advise that you contact hotels directly when booking. The majority of hotels will ask to take your temperature on arrival and ask you to complete a declaration in relation to your recent travel history and whether you have any symptoms related to COVID-19.
Some services and facilities in hotels may not be available e.g. leisure facilities.
Public places and services
Many public places and services such as gyms, casinos, karaoke rooms and nightclubs remain closed until further notice. You should contact venues ahead of events.
We strongly recommend that you wear masks, clean your hands and maintain social distancing in all public places.
Healthcare in Cambodia
For contact details of English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
If you think you have COVID-19 symptoms, you should dial +855 (0)12825424 and local authorities will be able to advise you on what action you should take.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Cambodia.
Many medications that would require a prescription in the UK can be bought over-the-counter in Cambodia. However, you may not find a brand you are familiar with and many pharmacies sell counterfeit or out of date products. The main branch of Pharmacie de la Gare in Phnom Penh can provide medications without a prescription and can deliver medications across the country. Before you travel, you should discuss with your doctor alternative brands of medication for your condition.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Cambodia
We will update this page when the Royal Government of Cambodia announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Cambodian national vaccination programme started in February 2021 and is using the Sinopharm, Sinovac, AstraZeneca (Covishield) and Janssen (Johnson and Johnson) vaccines. The Royal Government of Cambodia has stated that British nationals resident and working in Cambodia are eligible for vaccination if they choose to join the programme. There is no need to register with the British Embassy. The Royal Phnom Penh Hospital have also been given permission to import Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna vaccines ahead of a paid vaccination service in August/September 2021. We will provide further information on this service once available.
British Nationals in Phnom Penh who wish to be vaccinated should visit Preah Ang Duong Hospital with their passports between 8am and 11am or 2pm and 4pm. This programme will end on 8 September 2021. Children aged 12-17 are able to get vaccinated in Phnom Penh at the National Maternal and Child Health Centre. If you are considering a vaccination for somebody in this age group, you should seek medical advice from their local healthcare provider.
If you live in Cambodia but outside of Phnom Penh, you should follow the process set out by the Royal Government of Cambodia, which will be handled by the Ministry of Labour and Vocational Training (MLVT) or your local authority, depending on your visa status. The vaccination programme covers those with Ordinary Visas (Visa E) and work permits issued by the MLVT. In this case you will need a valid passport, valid visa and valid work permit and should register via your employer, your landlord or building management.
If you hold a different type of visa, including Visa K, foreigners married to Khmer citizens, retirees or another type of legal long term residence, you will need a valid passport and visa to register alongside Khmer Citizens, via the local authority, your landlord or building management.
The vaccination programme is ongoing in Kandal, Preah Sihanouk, Kampong Speu, Takeo, Pailin, Koh Kong, Kampong Cham, Svay Rieng, Kampong Chhnang, Tbong Khmum, Banteay Meanchey, Battambang, Siem Reap and Prey Veng. You should contact your employer, landlord or building management to confirm which vaccination site you should attend.
If you do not have a valid visa you should contact the General Department of Immigration to rectify this.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in Cambodia, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
