This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Cambodia set and enforce entry rules. For further information contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to. You should also consider checking with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Entry rules in response to coronavirus (COVID-19)
For a full list of current entry requirements to Cambodia please see the website of the Royal Embassy of Cambodia to the United States. Entry requirements can change with little or no notice.
Entry to Cambodia
British nationalsing to enter Cambodia will, prior to boarding, need:
a visa before arrival — the visa exemption policy, tourist visa, visa on arrival and e-visa arrangements are suspended indefinitely
a certificate of negative COVID-19 (PCR) within 72 hours of departure, from a competent health authority stating you do not have COVID-19. This certificate should bear the stamp of the facility issuing it and be signed by a qualified medical practitioner to certify the test result. You should not use the NHS testing service to get a test in order to facilitate your travel to another country. You should arrange to take a private test
proof of insurance that includes a minimum of US$50,000 for medical cover. This evidence should be printed in colour
Transiting Cambodia
It is currently not possible to enter or depart Cambodia through land borders as the Cambodia-Laos, Cambodia-Thailand and Cambodia-Vietnam land borders are closed.
Testing/screening on arrival
All foreigners arriving in Cambodia will be subject to a COVID-19 test on arrival (as well as requiring a COVID negative test before flying).
The government imposes charges on foreign arrivals for lab testing, medical treatment and accommodation under health measures.
Arrivals on Type-E or Type-C visas are required to have US$2000 per traveller to deposit on arrival for quarantine.
Quarantine requirements
All travellers to Cambodia are required to quarantine for 14 days at a pre-selected hotel or have pre-booked one of the additional hotels (pre-booked hotels include Sokha Phnom Penh Hotel, Courtyard by Marriott Phnom Penh or Raffles Hotel Le Royal Phnom Penh). The additional hotels should be contacted directed and may charge more than the pre-selected hotel.
You will be expected to comply with these requirements regardless of any existing medical needs you may have. If you’re not able to submit to these requirements, you should think carefully about whether to travel to Cambodia at this time.
For all travellers, health authorities will oversee another COVID-19 PCR test on the thirteenth day of quarantine.
Anyone testing positive for COVID-19 will be admitted to a quarantine facility for monitoring and treatment. Their identity may also be publicly disclosed to facilitate track and trace mechanisms.
Visas
The Ministry of Interior’s General Department of Immigration will deny visa extensions for foreigners who are not registered on the Foreigners Present in Cambodia System (FPCS). See Foreigners Registration
The latest information on visa extension arrangements from the relevant authorities is:
tourist visa: for all short term visitors who arrived on or after 1 January 2020, tourist visas will be automatically extended and any overstay fines will be waived. You do not need to go to the immigration department office for any kind of exit visa/stamp before departing. You can proceed directly to the airport to depart through the normal immigration channels
other visas: for non-tourist visas such as EG visas, there is no automatic extension in place and these can be renewed at any time by contacting Cambodian Immigration.
Regular entry requirements
Visas
Currently you need to get a visa before arrival.
Visa fees, conditions and photograph requirements are subject to change. Check the Ministry of Foreign Affairs & International Co-operation website for the latest information on fees, conditions and photograph requirements and on how to apply for an e-visa.
Tourist visas issued by a Royal Cambodian Embassy abroad may appear to have a longer validity than 1 month. The validity of the visa refers to time you have to enter Cambodia. The visa is valid for 30 days from the actual date of entry into Cambodia. Make sure your passport is stamped on arrival, and keep the departure form. If you lose your departure form, you’ll need to contact immigration officials before you leave the country to make alternative arrangements.
You can be fined, detained and deported if you overstay your visa. There is a fine of $10 per day for overstaying the validity term of your visa. There is no limit to this fine. Those who overstay more than 30 days will need to leave Cambodia in addition to paying the fine.
If you lose your passport and need to leave Cambodia on a UK Emergency Travel Document, you will need to get an exit visa. See UK Emergency Travel Documents
Foreigner registration
The Ministry of Interior’s General Department of Immigration will DENY VISA EXTENSIONS for foreigners who are not registered on the Foreigners Present in Cambodia System (FPCS). The FPCS will be used to record and manage foreigners’ information when they arrive at any entry point and record their data when they leave Cambodia. Its main objective is to protect foreigner safety and security in case of an emergency during their stay in Cambodia. Registration applies to all foreigners present in Cambodia, including tourists and residents.
The Immigration Department has clarified that registration is the responsibility of the host (landlords/hotel owners) not of the foreign resident/tourist. Foreigners will not face any fine if they are not registered, but will not receive their visa extension until the landlord/hotelier has input the foreigners details in the system.
You should check with your host to confirm that they have registered you on the app, and if not, then to ask them to do so.
If you have no landlord/own your own home, you will need to register yourself.
The FPCS app is free to download on iOS and Android. There is a video tutorial from the General Department of Immigration on how the app works (although the video has Khmer narration, the images are with English text: FPCS Video Tutorial
The in-app tutorial is in English. There are 6 steps for registration:
create an account (phone number, password)
upload a copy of your passport
verify information
enter valid phone number and password
verify
add information about accommodation
UK Visa Application Centre and services
the UK-VFS Visa Application Centre in Cambodia re-opened on June 22 2020. For visa application appointments, slots are now open for applicant booking
applications for new passports must also be processed through the VAC. New passports may take longer to be issued, due to restrictions imposed on workplaces during the pandemic
for consular related enquiries, submit your enquiry at <www.gov.uk/contact-consulate-phnom-penh>
If you lose your passport and need to leave Cambodia on a UK Emergency Travel Document, you will need to get an exit visa. See UK Emergency Travel Documents
Regional travel
The Cambodia-Laos, Cambodia-Thailand and Cambodia-Vietnam land borders are closed to travellers.
Recent changes to visa requirements for Thailand may affect travellers wishing to make regular crossings at the land border between Cambodia and Thailand. See travel advice for Thailand for further information.
For further information about regional travel, see the travel advice for the specific country.
More general information on land border crossings from Laos and Vietnam is available e at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs & International Co-operation website.
Passport validity
Your passport should be valid for a minimum period of 6 months from the date of entry into Cambodia. Entry is normally refused if you have a damaged passport or pages missing.
Your passport should also be valid for a minimum period of 6 months for any subsequent renewal or extension of your visa that you apply for from within Cambodia.
Work permits
To work in Cambodia, you’ll need a valid business visa and a valid work permit. Business visas are issued by the Immigration Department and are usually available on arrival in Phnom Penh airport, or at the Immigration Department. You may be able to apply for a Business visa in advance at your nearest Cambodian Embassy. Your employer will need to apply for your work permit from the Department of Labour and Social Affairs.
The Cambodian government is now enforcing these rules more strictly than in previous years. There is some uncertainty about whether the government will impose charges retroactively on individuals who did not have valid work permits previously. Procedures are subject to change and you should always consult the relevant Cambodian government department for the latest advice.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are accepted for entry, airside transit and exit from Cambodia.
If you’re leaving the country using an ETD issued in Cambodia (and therefore containing no entry stamp), you’ll need to get an exit visa from the Cambodian authorities once you have your ETD. Exit visas cost $30 and must be obtained from the Cambodian Immigration Department in Phnom Penh, 332, Russian Boulevard, Phnom Penh, Cambodia. The exit visa will take up to 3 working days to be processed by the Cambodian authorities.
