

The Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) cannot provide tailored advice for individual trips. Read this travel advice and carry out your own research before deciding whether to travel.
Emergency services in Cambodia
Police: 117
Fire: 118
Ambulance: 119
Tourist police in Cambodia 
If you want to report a crime, you can go to the tourist police.  
You can get a police report for insurance purposes, but police are not always willing to investigate crimes. 
A police report should be free. If police ask for a fee contact the British Embassy in Phnom Penh and give details of the police station. 
To report a crime: 
in Phnom Penh, go to the Tourist Police at Street 598, 12107 (Tel +855 (0)12 942 484) 
in Siem Reap, go to the Tourist Police office which is next to the ticketing booth for the Angkor temple ruins 
in Sihanoukville, Battambang and other towns in Cambodia, check with the local police which police station you should report to
Local law enforcement response to a crime, including a violent crime, is often limited. Foreigners attempting to report crimes have found: 
police stations closed 
emergency telephone numbers unanswered 
police unwilling to investigate 
police unable to speak English
Contact your travel provider and insurer
Contact your travel provider and your insurer if you are involved in a serious incident or emergency abroad. They will tell you if they can help and what you need to do.
Refunds and changes to travel
For refunds or changes to travel, contact your travel provider. You may also be able to make a claim through insurance. However, insurers usually require you to talk to your travel provider first.
Find out more about changing or cancelling travel plans, including:
where to get advice if you are in a dispute with a provider
how to access previous versions of travel advice to support a claim
Support from FCDO
FCDO has guidance on staying safe and what to do if you need help or support abroad, including:
finding English-speaking lawyers, funeral directors and translators and interpreters in Cambodia
dealing with a death in Cambodia
being arrested or imprisoned in Cambodia
getting help if you’re a victim of crime
what to do if you’re in hospital
if you’re affected by a crisis, such as a terrorist attack
Contacting FCDO  
Help abroad   
See how to get help from the UK government abroad including in an emergency.  
Help in the UK   
You can call FCDO in London if you need urgent help because something has happened to a friend or relative abroad.   
Telephone: 020 7008 5000 (24 hours)   
Find out about call charges 
Get travel advice updates   
Sign up to get email notifications when this travel advice is updated.   
Follow FCDO:  
travel advice on X 
travel advice on Facebook
Risk information for British companies
The Overseas Business Risk service offers information and advice for British companies operating in Cambodia on how to manage political, economic, and business security-related risks.
