Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

If you live in the UK and are currently visiting Cambodia you’re strongly advised to return now by commercial means. Don’t run the risk of getting stranded.
UK special charter flights will only operate for priority countries where commercial flights are not possible. You should not assume that these flights will become available in countries where commercial routes are operating. Please do not contact the contracted travel management company if no flight is advertised here.
International flights
There are very few remaining international flights out of Cambodia and they are reducing rapidly as a result of travel restrictions in the region and globally.
There is a potential special commercial flight to London which would depart from Phnom Penh at 23:50 on 13 April.
Those that have registered for this flight, will receive an email from the Embassy detailing next steps. Those that have not registered for this flight still can, please reister here.
The only other flight options out of Cambodia to the UK are via Seoul with Korean Airways (limited availability) and via Doha with Qatar Airways (departing on 10 and 11 April). Qatar Airways have made it clear that these flights are subject to last minute cancellation. Contact your airline or travel company and your insurance provider as soon as you are able, and keep up to date with the latest developments.
The British Embassy is issuing regular updates on its Facebook page.
Travelling to the airport
The Prime Minister announced on 9 April, a ban on all travel between provinces. This ban will come in to effect at midnight 9 April and last until midnight 16 April.
We know that this will be of concern to all of you who are based outside of Phnom Penh and were planning on catching flights over the coming days. Our Embassy have been speaking with the relevant authorities, who have assured them that they are working on a way to allow foreign nationals to travel to Phnom Penh to catch flights and they will hopefully make an announcement on this shortly.
In the meantime, officials have told our Embassy that the full implementation of the travel restrictions will take some time to come in to effect, so if you leave on the morning of 10 April for Phnom Penh you should not face any difficulties. If you were to be stopped on your way to Phnom Penh, then you can call Ministry of Foreign Affairs Director-General Mr Prak Nguon Hong (+855 11256777) who will talk directly to the local police where you have been stopped, to ensure that you can continue on your journey.
Our strong advice is that anyone who has a flight booked or is planning to fly before 16 April, travels to Phnom Penh as early as possible on the morning of 10 April (please do not travel during the hours of darkness). We would particularly urge all those who have registered for the special commercial flight with Vietnam Airlines on 13 April, to come to Phnom Penh on the morning of 10 April.
Help and support
If you would like to sign-up with the Embassy then please email UKinCambodia@fco.gov.uk. Please also follow the Embassy Facebook page to keep up to date with the latest developments.
Further information
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
