!
Warning
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to parts of Cambodia.

Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Cambodia
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Cambodia, attacks cannot be ruled out.
Attacks could be indiscriminate, including in places visited by expatriates and foreign travellers. Stay aware of your surroundings, keep up to date with local media and follow the advice of local authorities.
Political situation
Land borders
Be alert to the local security situation in border regions and at land crossings between countries. Get local advice before you set off. At the more remote crossing points, conditions can be basic. Local officials and tour operators can ask for unofficial fees or inflate visa prices at land borders. Make sure you know the correct visa requirements and fees before you travel.
Protests and demonstrations 
Avoid all protests, demonstrations and student and political rallies as they can become violent without warning.
Landmines
Cambodia remains heavily affected by landmines and unexploded weapons. Mined areas are often unmarked. Do not:
stray off main routes in rural areas, including around temple complexes
pick up metal objects
Crime
Organised crime
A bomb was left near a casino in Phnom Penh in December 2022 and there was a shooting in the same month. Both were likely linked to organised crime, and tourists were not targeted.
Protecting yourself and your belongings
Most incidents of theft are bag snatchings, often by thieves riding past on motorbikes. Thieves will cut bag straps and snatch bags or phones from tourists on foot or in tuk-tuks and on motorbikes, often causing injury. There have been incidents on bus journeys where passengers have had items taken from bags while asleep.
Hotspots for petty crime include:
the riverfront and BKK areas of Phnom Penh
the beaches and tourist areas of Sihanoukville and nearby islands
To reduce your risk from street crime:
use a hotel safe for your valuables
take extra care at night and in isolated areas and stick to well-used, well-lit roads
carry a personal alarm if possible
minimise the items you carry with you
carry bags on the side of you that is furthest from the road
do not place bags in the front basket of bicycles
try to travel in tuk-tuks with metal grills on the back and side that offer some protection against bag snatching
Sexual assault
Female travellers, including British nationals, have been sexually assaulted in Siem Reap and Sihanoukville. This includes incidents of lone women being sexually assaulted by men claiming to be motorbike taxi drivers in the Pub Street area of Siem Reap. Be wary of approaches from strangers and offers of transport.
Personal safety
Parties, including organised dance parties on Cambodia’s islands, may place you at risk of:
sexual assault
robbery
injury
arrest
losing belongings, including travel documents
Islands are often isolated and access to medical or emergency assistance is limited or non-existent.
Cambodians are friendly, but you should be wary if a Cambodian or other foreign national befriends you quickly and invites you to their home or hotel to meet their family.
Drink spiking
Police have reported instances of drink spiking in some bars visited by foreign nationals. Do not leave drinks unattended.
Methanol poisoning
There is a risk of methanol poisoning from home brewed alcohol or counterfeit replicas of well-known alcohol brands. Affected drinks may include:
local spirits, including rice wine
spirit-based mixed drinks such as cocktails
counterfeit brand-name spirits
To reduce the risk of methanol poisoning:
buy alcoholic drinks only from licensed liquor stores, bars, clubs, restaurants, and hotels
avoid home-made alcoholic drinks
check bottle seals are intact
check labels for poor print quality or incorrect spelling
Methanol is tasteless and odourless. If the label, smell or taste seems wrong, do not drink the alcohol. These are signs it is illegal and could contain methanol.
TravelHealthPro lists the symptoms of methanol poisoning. For more information about spiking and methanol poisoning, read Travel Aware’s information on Spiking and methanol poisoning.
Seek urgent medical attention if you or someone you are travelling with show signs of methanol poisoning.
Scams
Travellers have reported fake dollar bills being given as change in shops and clubs. Check that notes you receive are genuine and are not damaged or torn.
Be sceptical if offered an opportunity of easy work. Organised crime groups operate sophisticated job scams, advertising ‘easy jobs with high pay’. They traffic victims – some of them from neighbouring countries – mostly to secure compounds in and around Sihanoukville, border areas and Kandal. These jobs have turned out to be long hours of factory work where pay was low, passports withheld and free movement was allegedly restricted.
Laws and cultural differences
Personal ID 
It may be useful to carry a copy of the photo page of your passport, but this is not a legal requirement in Cambodia.
Legal system and prison sentences
The legal process in Cambodia is unpredictable, lacks transparency and is open to interference from political and business interests. The investigation and trial process falls far below the standard of the UK. Pre-trial detention can also last many months. The British Embassy will not interfere in the legal processes of a host country.
The conditions in Cambodian prisons are extremely poor and overcrowded. Medical facilities in prisons are also very poor. The UK has no prisoner transfer agreement with Cambodia so if you’re found guilty you can expect to serve your full prison term in Cambodia.
Illegal drugs  
Possession, trafficking and manufacture of any illegal drugs are serious offences in Cambodia. This includes cannabis. British nationals have been caught carrying cannabis while transiting through Cambodia.
Airports in Cambodia have excellent technology and security for detecting illegal items. This is also used to scan the baggage of transiting passengers.
The Cambodia authorities have a zero-tolerance policy to drug offences. Possessing drugs, even in very small quantities, can carry severe penalties, including:  
arrest and detention
a long jail sentence if charged and convicted. This can include a life sentence with no reduction for good behaviour
Legal processes before court hearings can be long and expensive. It can take many months for a case to come to trial.
Criminal gangs in the UK and elsewhere have been known to coerce people into carrying drugs across borders. Do not allow yourself to be persuaded.
It is important to be aware of your rights if you are detained by the police. See our guidance for those detained or imprisoned in Cambodia.
Police often raid venues known to be frequented by foreigners. You may have to take a urine or blood test if there is a suspicion you have used drugs. You will be arrested if the test is positive.
Angkor Wat official code of conduct
The Cambodian authorities have issued an official code of conduct for visitors at Angkor Wat and other religious sites.
Dress code 
You may be refused admission to religious sites, including Angkor Wat, if you wear skirts or shorts above the knee. Cover bare shoulders.
Using cameras in secure areas
Never take photographs on or near military bases. Ask permission before taking pictures of people, especially monks and other religious figures.
Research, photography and filming
Request permission in advance from the district head, provincial governor or national tourism board for any travel that authorities might see as out of the ordinary, including:
scientific research of any kind 
carrying out surveys 
extensive photography or filming
LGBT+ travellers
Same-sex sexual activity is legal in Cambodia. The LGBT+ community is becoming more visible, through gay clubs, club nights and the work of some human rights organisations.
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Adopting Cambodian children
The UK government has suspended all adoptions of Cambodian children by UK residents.
Commercial surrogacy
Commercial surrogacy is banned in Cambodia. If you pay a surrogate, you could get a fine or a prison sentence. See guidance on surrogacy abroad.
Phone and data connections
While there is good wi-fi and mobile phone networks in the main cities and towns of Cambodia, many of the islands and remote areas are not well covered. Make sure your friends and family are aware that you may be out of contact.
Health and safety
Cambodia does not have the same health and safety standards as in the UK. Be aware that safety advice will be minimal and there may be no warning signs about dangers at tourist sites.
Outdoor activities and adventure tourism
Jungle treks
If you’re considering jungle trekking, use a reputable tour guide. There’s no licensing system for tour guides, so get advice from your hotel, and look at online reviews before hiring a guide.
Water-based activities
When swimming, kayaking, rafting, or using jet-skis:
take extra care in the rainy season from May to October
watch for river currents – these can be extremely strong and there have been fatalities because of this
beware of jellyfish in the sea close to the shore – their sting can be fatal
take local advice from hotel management and rent equipment only from recommended operators
check for damage before using any equipment
insist on training and ask operators to explain safe practices
See ⁠watersports safety advice from the Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents (ROSPA).
Scuba diving
Diving school standards are not always as high as in the UK. You should:
check a dive operator’s credentials
make sure you’re covered by insurance
make sure safety equipment is available on the boat, particularly oxygen
ask about safety precautions, including the ability to transfer divers to a hyperbaric chamber
If you have not had any previous diving experience:
ask your dive instructor to explain what cover they offer before signing up
check what to do if something goes wrong, including how to call for help while at sea
Transport risks
Road travel
If you are planning to drive in Cambodia, see information on driving abroad. Cambodia has one of the highest rates of road traffic accidents in south-east Asia. There are large numbers of fatalities and serious injuries. Many accidents are due to poor vehicle and driver safety standards. Travel after dark significantly increases the risk of accidents.
To hire a car or a motorcycle over 125cc, you may sometimes need to have the 1949 version of the international driving permit (IDP) and your UK driving licence. You cannot buy an IDP outside the UK, so get one before you travel.
Before you hire any vehicle, check drivers and any passengers are covered by your travel insurance and check the small print of the rental agreement.  
For long-term car rental or to drive a private car, you need to get a Cambodian driving licence. Local travel agencies or car hire firms can help arrange this for a fee. Bring an IDP and your UK licence.
Motorcycles
Travelling as a passenger by motorcycle taxi (‘moto dop’) is dangerous. Vehicles are poorly maintained and driving standards are low. There is also a risk that thieves (also on motorcycles) will snatch bags from off your bike, particularly in Phnom Penh and Sihanoukville.
The police can impose an on-the-spot fine if you ride a motorcycle without a helmet. Riding without a helmet may also invalidate your insurance.
Do not hand over your passport as a guarantee for returning a motorcycle or scooter.
Sea and river travel
Accidents have happened when boats are overloaded or poorly maintained. Tourist boats sometimes operate despite weather warnings, particularly between Sihanoukville and the nearby islands.
Water levels in rivers and lakes are high during the rainy season from June to October, making currents faster and more dangerous. Boat travel on rivers is difficult in the dry season, from March to May, due to the exposure of sandbars and other hazards that can damage boats or cause them to run aground.
The Mekong River Commission posts official updates on the Mekong River.
Extreme weather and natural disasters
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards.
Monsoon
Heavy storms during the monsoon season from June to October disrupt and damage the road network. Travel to some provinces can be seriously restricted by landslides at this time. Poor drainage results in flooded roads, causing major traffic congestion and delays in Phnom Penh - including along the route to the airport.
Monitor local news and weather reports, and weather updates from the World Meteorological Organisation.
Flooding
Lakes, caves and waterfalls are particularly prone to dangerous flash flooding during the rainy season from June to October.
