This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Cambodia as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Cambodia to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Cambodia
A ban on travel between provinces has now been lifted and normal travel between provinces can take place.
Registering with the British Embassy
If you would like to sign up with the Embassy, email UKinCambodia@fco.gov.uk. You’re also encouraged to follow the British Embassy Facebook page.
Foreigners Registration
The Interior Ministry’s General Department of Immigration has recently announced that it will DENY VISA EXTENSIONS for foreigners who are not registered on the Foreigners Present in Cambodia System (FPCS) by 1 July 2020. The FPCS will be used to record and manage foreigners’ information when they arrive at any entry point and record their data when they leave Cambodia. Its main objective is to protect foreigner safety and security in case of an emergency during their stay in Cambodia. Registration applies to all foreigners present in Cambodia, including tourists, residents and diplomats.
The Immigration Department has clarified that registration is the responsibility of the host (landlords/hotel owners) not of the foreign resident/tourist. Foreigners will not face any fine if they are not registered, but will not receive their visa extension until the landlord/hotelier has input the foreigners details in the system.
We advise that you check with your host to confirm that they have registered you on the app, and if not, then to ask them to do so.
If you have no landlord/own your own home, you would need to register yourself.
The FPCS app is free to download on iOS and Android. There is a video tutorial from the General Department of Immigration on how the app works (although the video has Khmer narration, the images are with English text:
FPCS Video Tutorial
The in-app tutorial is in English. There are 6 steps for registration:
Create an account (phone number, password)
Upload a copy of your passport
Verify information
Enter valid phone number and password
Verify
Add information about accommodation
Visas
The latest information on visa extension arrangements from the relevant authorities is:
Tourist visa: For all short term visitors who arrived on or after 1 January 2020, tourist visas will be automatically extended and any overstay fines will be waived. You do not need to go to the immigration department office for any kind of exit visa/stamp before departing. You can proceed directly to the airport to depart through the normal immigration channels.
Other visas: For non-tourist visas such as EG visas, there is no automatic extension in place and these can be renewed at any time in the usual way.
UK Visa Application centre and services
The UK-VFS visa application centre in Cambodia will re-open on June 22 2020. For visa application appointments, the appointment slots are now open for applicant booking
Applications for new passports must also be processed through the VAC. Please note that new passports may take longer to be issued, due to restrictions imposed on workplaces during the pandemic.
For consular related enquiries, please submit your enquiry at www.gov.uk/contact-consulate-phnom-penh.
If you lose your passport and need to leave Cambodia on a UK Emergency Travel Document, you will need to get an exit visa. See UK Emergency Travel Documents
Health
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Cambodia.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Cambodia, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
