Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

Coronavirus: stay up to date
Cases of coronavirus (COVID-19) have been confirmed in Cambodia. See information on measures introduced in Cambodia to limit the spread of the virus. Find out how to return to the UK from Cambodia.
See coronavirus travel advice for guidance on international travel.
Sign up for email alerts for Cambodia travel advice.
The Prime Minister announced on 9 April, a ban on all travel between provinces. This ban will come in to effect at midnight 9 April and last until midnight 16 April.
We know that this will be of concern to all of you who are based outside of Phnom Penh and were planning on catching flights over the coming days. Our Embassy have been speaking with the relevant authorities, who have assured them that they are working on a way to allow foreign nationals to travel to Phnom Penh to catch flights and they will hopefully make an announcement on this shortly.
In the meantime, officials have told our Embassy that the full implementation of the travel restrictions will take some time to come in to effect, so if you leave on the morning of 10 April for Phnom Penh you should not face any difficulties. If you were to be stopped on your way to Phnom Penh, then you can call Ministry of Foreign Affairs Director-General Mr Prak Nguon Hong (+855 11256777) who will talk directly to the local police where you have been stopped, to ensure that you can continue on your journey.
Our strong advice is that anyone who has a flight booked or is planning to fly before 16 April, travels to Phnom Penh as early as possible on the morning of 10 April (please do not travel during the hours of darkness). We would particularly urge all those who have registered for the special commercial flight with Vietnam Airlines on 13 April, to come to Phnom Penh on the morning of 10 April.
There is a potential special commercial flight to London which would depart from Phnom Penh at 23:50 on 13 April. Those that have registered for this flight, will receive an email from the Embassy detailing next steps. Those that have not registered for this flight still can, please register here.
The only other flight options out of Cambodia to the UK are via Seoul with Korean Airways (limited availability) and via Doha with Qatar Airways (departing on 10 and 11 April). Qatar Airways have made it clear that these flights are subject to last minute cancellation. See Return to the UK
The Cambodia-Laos, Cambodia-Thailand and the Cambodia-Vietnam land borders are all closed. The border crossings will remain closed until further notice.
If you would like to sign-up with the Embassy then please email UKinCambodia@fco.gov.uk. Please also follow the Embassy Facebook page to keep up to date with the latest developments.
If you choose to remain, you must follow the advice of local authorities. The Cambodian Prime Minister announced on 7 April the cancellation of the Khmer New Year holiday which should have taken place from 13 to 16 April. The cancellation will apply to both the private and public sector. See Coronavirus
Around 162,395 British nationals visited Cambodia in 2017. Most visits are trouble-free but there have been reports of assaults and robberies against foreigners. See Crime
The UK Government is advising that British nationals aged 70 and over, and those with underlying health conditions like chronic diseases and diabetes, do not travel on cruise ships. Please go to GOV.UK for further information.
UK health authorities have classified Cambodia as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For information and advice about the risks associated with Zika virus, visit the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Cambodia, attacks can’t be ruled out. See Terrorism
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.
Take out comprehensive travel and medical insurance before you travel.
