!
Warning
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to parts of Cambodia.

Your travel insurance could be invalidated if you travel against advice from the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO).
Areas where FCDO advises against all but essential travel
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to within 50km from the whole border with Thailand.
Find out more about why FCDO advises against travel. 
Border with Thailand
There are updated reports of fighting including rocket and artillery fire on 24 July between Cambodia and Thailand, spreading across locations along the border. Casualties have been reported, as well as evacuations of areas close to the border. Land borders/crossings between Cambodia and Thailand have been suspended. Some tourist destinations in border areas such as the Preah Vihear/Khao Phra Wihan temple, the Ta Krabey/Ta Kwai temple and the Tamone Thom/Ta Muen Thom temple are currently closed.
There are also unexploded landmines in the border area.
We advise against all but essential travel to the affected border areas.
Before you travel
No travel can be guaranteed safe. Read all the advice in this guide. You may also find it helpful to: 
see general advice for women travellers
read our guide on disability and travel abroad
see general advice for LGBT+ travellers
read about safety for solo and independent travel
see advice on volunteering and adventure travel abroad
Travel insurance
If you choose to travel, research your destinations and get appropriate travel insurance. Insurance should cover your itinerary, planned activities and expenses in an emergency.
About FCDO travel advice
The Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) provides advice about risks of travel to help you make informed decisions. Find out more about FCDO travel advice.
Get travel advice updates 
Sign up to get email notifications when this travel advice is updated.  
Follow FCDO:    
travel advice on X 
travel advice on Facebook 
Travel Aware on Instagram
