Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Antigua and Barbuda on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Antigua and Barbuda.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements. You should contact local authorities for information on testing facilities. Where possible you should start making arrangements for testing at least seven days before travel.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You will be contacted by the Health Authorities and instructed to self-isolate or move to a quarantine facility. This will be determined by the Quarantine Authority. You may be instructed to stay at the Government’s Quarantine facility. This would be at a charge of XCD 82 per night. You may also need to seek treatment there. Minors will be subject to the same regulations as adults.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Antigua and Barbuda
For information on entering Antigua and Barbuda, see Entry requirements
A State of Emergency is in place until 30 September. Under these measures:
all persons must remain in their accommodation from 11pm to 5am each day unless seeking urgent medical attention
face masks must be worn in any public place and must be worn for entry in to any supermarket or market
face masks must cover nose and mouth, leave eyes, forehead, and ears visible, and cannot be worn at the same time as head coverings or dark glasses
gyms are allowed to operate providing all patrons make an appointment, wear a mask the entire time, and must not remain in the gym for longer than one hour
from 1 August going to the cinemas or bars and entry in to other places of entertainment is permitted for tourists (regardless of vaccination status) and residents who have been fully vaccinated only
In-house dining at restaurants is allowed as long as parties observe social distancing
retailers such as food and clothes shops, pharmacies, and hardware stores are allowed to operate
public-facing government offices have restricted opening hours and visitors
beaches are open between 5am and 7pm for exercise or relaxation only. During these hours picnics, music, drinking alcohol, and parties are prohibited. However, all beaches are closed on Thursday 26 August, which is a local public holiday. See Swimming for more information.
no more than two people may travel in a motor vehicle at any one time if they are not of the same household. Members of the same household comprising more than two people may travel together in the same vehicle. Face masks must be worn in motor vehicles when there is more than one occupant
Only licensed taxis may pick up or drop off passengers at VC Bird International Airport; private vehicles may not pick up or drop off passengers
people may undertake exercise in open fields, at the side of roads, and play golf or tennis between 5am and 6pm each day. They may be accompanied by members of their household, or by one other person if they are not of their household. All must observe a distance of six feet and wear face masks.
private parties, social events such as banquets, and clubs/societies which host more than one household are permitted provided there are no more than 10 persons and all must observe a distance of six feet and wear face masks
no more than 25 persons are allowed to attend services in churches providing all observe distances of six feet and wear a face mask
no more than 25 persons may attend weddings, funerals, and baptisms providing all observe distances of six feet and wear a face mask. Wedding receptions and wakes may be held after the service but are limited to 10 participants
residents of Antigua and Barbuda who test positive for COVID-19 maybe required to enter government quarantine and wear a quarantine bracelet. Those in their household will be required to undergo testing and may also be required to enter a government quarantine facility and wear a quarantine bracelet
Failure to comply with the State of Emergency regulations and/or instructions from government health authorities will result in either a fine of up to XCD10,000 and/or six months imprisonment.
The Antigua and Barbuda Emergency Medical Service are asking the public to call the COVID-19 inquiries hotline on (+1 268) 462 6843 if they suspect they might have contracted the virus, been exposed to or any other matters relating to the virus. The public are asked to call the hotline and not visit a healthcare facility unless instructed to.
Healthcare in Antigua and Barbuda
For contact details of English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Antigua and Barbuda.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Antigua and Barbuda
We will update this page when the Government of Antigua and Barbuda announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Antigua and Barbuda national vaccination programme started in February 2021 and is using the AstraZeneca, Sinopharm, Pfizer and Sputnik vaccines. British nationals are eligible for a vaccination if they choose to join the programme.
Individuals can request their preferred vaccine of choice. All residents of Antigua and Barbuda wishing to receive the COVID-19 vaccine can walk-in to either the Villa or Glanvilles Polyclinics on Mondays to Fridays from 9am to 5pm. Vaccines are also available by appointment at the All Saints Health Centre (+1 268) 460-1003 and the Browne’s Avenue Health Centre (+ 1 268) 562-3076. For further details please visit https://vaccineantiguabarbuda.com/ or call one of the four numbers (+1 268) 788 8299, (+1 268) 736 8295, (+1 268) 736 8298, (+1 268) 736 8299.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in Antigua and Barbuda, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact the British High Commission in Bridgetown (+ 1 246 430 7800 and select option 2 for consular services) which is available 24/7. Alternatively complete the webform. If you are outside Antigua and Barbuda you can call the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office in London on +44 (0)207 7008 5000.
Further information
You should follow the advice of local authorities, including local measures to help minimise your risk of exposure to coronavirus. The Government of Antigua and Barbuda post updates via Facebook, Instagram and Twitter
