This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Antigua and Barbuda set and enforce entry rules. For further information contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to. You should also consider checking with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Entry rules in response to coronavirus (COVID-19)
Pre-arrival requirements
No person may enter or transit Antigua and Barbuda if they have spent any of the previous 14 days before arrival/transit in Belgium, Botswana, Hong Kong or South Africa.
All arriving and transiting passengers aged 18 and over, including returning residents and Antigua and Barbuda nationals, must provide evidence of having received both doses of a two-dose WHO-approved COVID-19 vaccine, or a full dose of a single-dose WHO-approved COVID-19 vaccine. All COVID-19 vaccines administered in the UK are WHO-approved. Children aged 17 and younger do not need to have been vaccinated to enter or transit Antigua and Barbuda.
All passengers aged between 5 – 17 years, arriving by air (including those transiting the country), who are not vaccinated or who are partially vaccinated must provide evidence of a negative COVID-19 RT-PCR test or an approved Rapid Antigen test taken within 4 days of their flight. Only tests using nasopharyngeal or oropharyngeal specimens/swabs are accepted. Home tests, self-administered tests and those using saliva samples are not accepted. Children aged four and under are exempt from pre-arrival COVID testing.
All fully vaccinated arriving passengers must present a negative RT PCR test or an approved Rapid Antigen test result of 4 days or fewer from date of testing to be permitted entry into Antigua and Barbuda. This includes transiting passengers. Only tests using nasopharyngeal or oropharyngeal specimens/swabs are accepted. Home tests, self-administered tests and those using saliva samples are not accepted. The list of Rapid Antigen tests approved by the Government of Antigua and Barbuda can be found here. Fully vaccinated passengers with valid Rapid Antigen Test negative results may be required to submit to a RT PCR test for SARS-CoV-2 upon arrival at their own expense. Instructions on permissible activities while awaiting results will be provided by Port Health officials.
You should not use the NHS testing service to get a test in order to facilitate your travel to another country. You should arrange to take a private test.
Testing / screening on arrival
Further health screening is in place at VC Bird International Airport and the private jet terminal for all international arrivals. Passengers must complete a Health Declaration Form and will be subject to temperature checks by Port Health Authorities.
Passengers who knowingly present false declarations of COVID-19 negative tests or vaccination on arrival will be fined according to the laws of Antigua and Barbuda.
Additional measures are subject to change but may include mandatory temperature, travel history checks, a check on whether your accommodation is on the Government of Antigua and Barbuda’s Approved List, and completion of a Health Declaration Form. You should expect long waiting times on arrival.
Arriving by sea
Passengers aged 5 years old or over arriving by sea must provide evidence of a negative COVID-19 RT-PCR test taken no more than 3 days before their last point of departure and follow the Government of Antigua and Barbuda’s Yachting Health and Safety Guidance and Operational Protocols. All Marine Pleasure Craft and Ferry Services entering the waters of Antigua and Barbuda should contact the Antigua Port Authority, using VHF Channel 16, at least 6 hours prior to arrival. Instructions will be given to guide the crafts to either the Nevis Street Pier or English Harbour Ports or to a holding area where they must follow the screening and quarantine instructions of Port Health.
Quarantine requirements
On arrival, you will be subject to health screening. The Ministry of Health and Wellness of Antigua and Barbuda advise that all arrivals will be monitored for coronavirus for up to 14 days and that ultimately it is the decision of the Quarantine Authority on who must self-isolate or quarantine on arrival.
All tourist and business travellers who are partially vaccinated will be permitted to stay in Government-approved accommodation (see Pre-Arrival Requirements Information above).
Residents of Antigua and Barbuda and visitors staying with family, friends, in private accommodation, in their own place of residence or other location not on the Government of Antigua and Barbuda’s Approved List, may be subject to an interview to determine their travel plans and suitability to leave for their accommodation arrangements. Partially vaccinated returning residents may be required to quarantine as directed by the Quarantine Authorities, which might include paying to stay in government quarantine facilities at a cost of XCD 82.00 per night.
Failure to comply with any order, guideline or direction of the Quarantine Authority or other health authorities is considered an offence carrying a fine of up to XCD 10,000 and/or six months imprisonment.
Demonstrating your COVID-19 status
Antigua or Barbuda will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 vaccination record. It does not accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 recovery letter. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
Entry to Antigua and Barbuda
All aircrafts must arrive at VC Bird International Airport or the private jet terminal. Only licensed taxis are permitted to pick up or drop off passengers at either the airport or private jet terminal.
All Marine Pleasure Craft and Ferry Services entering the waters of Antigua and Barbuda should contact the Antigua Port Authority, using VHF Channel 16, at least 6 hours prior to arrival. Instructions will be given to guide the crafts to either the Nevis Street Pier or English Harbour Ports or to a holding area.
Regular entry requirements
Visas
British Passport holders don’t need a visa to visit Antigua and Barbuda.
On entry, you’ll be granted a specified period to stay. If you wish to stay longer, you must apply and pay for an extension of stay through the Antigua and Barbuda Immigration Department.
It’s an offence to overstay the entry period or to work without a work permit.
Passport validity
Your passport should be valid for a minimum period of 6 months from the date of entry into Antigua and Barbuda.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents are accepted for entry, airside transit and exit from Antigua and Barbuda.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
Departure tax
Departure tax is included in the flight costs.
