At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Coronavirus
There is an ongoing outbreak of coronavirus (COVID-19) in China and throughout the world. Antigua and Barbuda has a confirmed case of COVID-19 and the authorities have introduced a number of precautionary measures against the spread of the virus. The Antigua and Barbuda Emergency Medical Service are asking the public to call the COVID-19 inquiries hotline on 462 6843 if they suspect they might have contracted the virus, been exposed to or any other matters relating to the virus. The public are asked to call the hotline and not visit a healthcare facility unless instructed to.
On 12 March the government of Antigua and Barbuda announced those travelling from the following countries will not be permitted entry into Antigua: China, Italy, Iran, South Korea, Japan, Singapore. This applies to travellers of all nationalities. The government has not yet announced whether there are any time limits permissible between leaving the affected countries and travel to Antigua and Barbuda. If you have travelled to any of these countries in the past two months you should check with your nearest Embassy of Antigua and Barbuda before travel. Travellers arriving from France and Germany have been placed on a watch list.
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
Other health risks
Dengue fever is endemic to Latin America and the Caribbean and can occur throughout the year.
UK health authorities have classified Antigua and Barbuda as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For more information and advice, visit the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
Cases of Chikungunya virus have been confirmed in Antigua and Barbuda. You should take steps to avoid being bitten by mosquitoes.
Local medical care
The main government hospital can cope with many types of treatment but serious cases may mean emergency evacuation. Medical treatment in Antigua and Barbuda can be expensive.
Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment and repatriation.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 999 or 911 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment. Before choosing to be treated at a private facility, you should check their policies on pre-payment. Private clinics may not accept medical travel insurance as payment for treatment.
