Coronavirus guidance is being updated.
Read what you can and cannot do

BA have announced a one-off commercial flight from VC Bird International Airport to London Heathrow on 17 May. Their normal service from Antigua and Barbuda is not currently scheduled to resume until 1 July, although may be subject to change. Tickets can be booked via ba.com. Those with existing BA tickets or vouchers should call +1800 247 9297 or email Caribbean.Sales@ba.com. We strongly encourage British nationals take this option if possible. Should a UK government charter flight subsequently become available, a charge would also be due to anyone who obtains a seat.
From 5 June, American Airlines are operating flights from VC Bird International Airport to Miami, with onward connections to the UK; these services are subject to change. If you are considering booking or have booked this flight you should monitor our Travel Advice for the USA, to ensure you meet all USA transit and/or entry requirements. Other than the flights above, there are currently no commercial options available to return to the UK from Antigua and Barbuda.
Regional airline LIAT has suspended all operations until 31 May
The online form for British nationals to register their interest in a chartered flight from Antigua and Barbuda to the UK has now closed. We will contact those who have registered their interest to return to the UK, and update this travel advice as soon as more information is available.
What to do
If you cannot leave Antigua and Barbuda at this time, you should:
follow the advice of local authorities, including local measures to help minimise your risk of exposure to coronavirus. The Government of Antigua and Barbuda post updates via Facebook, Instagram and Twitter
find accommodation that’s suitable for your needs
keep in regular contact with family and friends at home, so they know you are safe and well
See more information and advice about staying where you are if you cannot return to the UK.
Future travel options
We are assessing British nationals’ interest in a chartered flight from Antigua and Barbuda. If you are looking to return to the UK, let us know by registering your details on our online form.
Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British High Commission on Twitter, Facebook, or Instagram.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Your journey home
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British High Commission in Bridgetown on + 1 246 430 7800.
The High Commission cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone. This page will be updated when departure options become available. To get the latest information, sign up for travel advice email alerts.
Further information
See additional advice on what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
