

Terrorism  
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times. 
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad. 
Terrorism in Antigua and Barbuda 
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Antigua and Barbuda, attacks cannot be ruled out. 
Crime 
There have been incidents of violent crime including murder, armed robbery and sexual assault in Antigua and Barbuda. 
Take sensible precautions to protect your personal safety. You should:  
make sure your accommodation is secure – this also applies if you are staying on a yacht 
take care when walking alone off the busy main roads 
avoid isolated areas, including beaches, particularly after dark 
only use licensed taxis 
take particular care around large gatherings, including street and beach parties, especially after dark or during the festival season
not carry large amounts of cash or jewellery 
leave valuables and travel documents in a safety deposit box or secure hotel safe 
Laws and cultural differences  
Illegal drugs and prison sentences 
It is illegal to possess drugs. There are severe penalties for all drug offences. Pack all luggage yourself and do not carry anything through customs for anyone else. 
Laws on clothing 
It is illegal for anyone, including children, to dress in camouflage clothing. 
LGBT+ travellers 
Attitudes towards the LGBT+ community are mostly conservative in the Caribbean.  
Antigua and Barbuda no longer has legislation against same-sex sexual acts. However, showing affection in public may attract unwanted and negative attention. It is uncommon for opposite or same-sex couples to show affection in public.   
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers. 
Outdoor activities and adventure tourism  
Swimming safety 
Take care when swimming. Currents can be deceptively strong and not all beaches have lifeguards or warning flags. Monitor all beaches carefully and follow warnings.  See Royal National Lifeboat Institution safety advice.
Transport risks  
Road travel 
If you are planning to drive in Antigua and Barbuda, see information on driving abroad.  
You will need a temporary local driving licence to drive in Antigua and Barbuda. Your car hire company will usually help with this process or these can be obtained at the Transport Board or local police stations. You need to present a UK driving licence to get a local temporary licence. 
Driving conditions 
Roads can have potholes and unmarked speed bumps. Minor roads and those in rural areas are narrow and can have blind corners. Pedestrians often walk on the roads. Drivers do not always use indicators.  
Take extra care when driving at night, as some roads are unlit. Road signs and hazards may not be easily visible.  
Do not stop if pedestrians flag you down. Keep car doors locked when driving. 
If you have an accident, call the police and do not move the vehicle. 
Taxis 
Taxis are not metered. Standard taxi fares are set by zones. Agree the fare in local currency with the driver before you set off. You can often pay in US dollars as well as Eastern Caribbean dollars.  
Sea travel 
Visitors arriving by sea must contact the Antigua Port Authority at least 6 hours before arrival using VHF Channel 16. Follow instructions on which port or holding area to use to complete entry formalities.  
Passengers arriving by cruise liner are subject to the protocols placed on board by their cruise company. 
Extreme weather and natural disasters 
Hurricanes  
The hurricane season in the Caribbean normally runs from June to November. Monitor local and international weather updates from the Antigua and Barbuda Meteorological Services, the World Meteorological Organization and the US National Hurricane Center and follow the advice of the local authorities, including any evacuation orders.  
The island of Barbuda was hit by hurricanes in 2017. Many buildings were destroyed and reconstruction work is still taking place. If you’re planning to visit Barbuda, you should: 
monitor local and international weather updates 
follow the advice of the local authorities 
make sure your accommodation is secure 
See tropical cyclones for advice about how to prepare effectively and what to do if you are likely to be affected by a hurricane. 
Earthquakes 
Earthquakes are a risk in Antigua and Barbuda. Tremors are felt occasionally in the Caribbean. The US Federal Emergency Management Agency website has advice about what to do before, during and after an earthquake.  
