This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Antigua and Barbuda as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Antigua and Barbuda to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Antigua and Barbuda
For information on entering Antigua and Barbuda, see Entry Requirements
A State of Emergency is in place until 31 July. Under these measures:
all persons must remain in their accommodation from 21:00 to 05:00 each day unless seeking urgent medical attention
face masks must be worn in any public place and must be worn for entry in to any supermarket or market
face masks must cover nose and mouth, leave eyes, forehead, and ears visible, and cannot be worn at the same time as head coverings or dark glasses
bars and nightclubs are closed
restaurants and meal vendors are allowed to operate delivery or take-out services only
retailers such as food and clothes shops, pharmacies, and hardware stores are allowed to operate between 05:00 and 21:00
public-facing government offices have restricted opening hours and visitors
beaches are open between 05:00 and 19:00 for exercise or relaxation only. During these hours picnics, music, drinking alcohol, and parties are prohibited. See Safety and Security – ‘Swimming’ for more information
no more than two people may travel in a motor vehicle at any one time. Face masks must be worn in motor vehicles when there is more than one occupant
people under the age of 18 may only leave their homes if they are accompanied by a parent or legal guardian
people may undertake exercise in open fields, at the side of roads, and play golf or tennis between 05:00 and 21:00 each day. They may be accompanied by members of their household, or by one other person if they are not of their household. All must observe a distance of six feet and wear face masks
all social gatherings are prohibited. Churches are closed. Weddings, funerals, and baptism may take place but with no more than 25 participants all observing distances of six feet and wearing face masks
Failure to comply with the State of Emergency regulations will result in either a fine of XCD5000 and/or six months imprisonment.
The Antigua and Barbuda Emergency Medical Service are asking the public to call the COVID-19 inquiries hotline on 462 6843 if they suspect they might have contracted the virus, been exposed to or any other matters relating to the virus. The public are asked to call the hotline and not visit a healthcare facility unless instructed to.
Health
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Antigua and Barbuda.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Antigua and Barbuda, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
We are investigating a potential issue that is causing some callers difficulty in accessing consular services through our switchboard (+ 1 246 430 7800 and select option 2 for consular services). Whilst we investigate, if callers are unable to access consular services through our switchboard, they may do so by completing the webform, by calling the Foreign and Commonwealth Office in London on +44 (0)207 7008 1500, or by using the switchboard numbers for the following UK missions in the Caribbean:
Port of Spain +1 868-350-0444
Kingston +1 876-936-0700
Havana +53 7214 2200 or +53 7204 1771
Dom Rep +1 809-472-7111
Further information
You should follow the advice of local authorities, including local measures to help minimise your risk of exposure to coronavirus. The Government of Antigua and Barbuda post updates via Facebook, Instagram and Twitter
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
