COVID-19 entry restrictions for Antigua and Barbuda
Before you travel, check the ‘Entry requirements’ section for Antigua and Barbuda’s current entry restrictions and requirements. These may change with little warning. Monitor this advice for the latest updates and stay in contact with your travel provider.
Travelling from and returning to the UK
Check what you must do to travel abroad and return to England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
If you plan to pass through another country to return to the UK, check the travel advice for the country you’re transiting. If you will pass through a red list country, book your hotel quarantine package before travelling to the UK.
If you’re planning travel to Antigua and Barbuda, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCDO’s guidance on foreign travel insurance.
For information about COVID-19 vaccines, see the Coronavirus page.
The hurricane season in the Caribbean normally runs from June to November. You should monitor local and international weather updates from the Antigua & Barbuda Met Office and the US National Hurricane Centre and follow the advice of local authorities, including any evacuation orders. See Natural disasters.
The island of Barbuda was seriously hit by hurricanes in September 2017. Many buildings were destroyed and reconstruction work is still taking place. If you’re planning to visit Barbuda you should monitor local and international weather updates, follow the advice of the local authorities and ensure your accommodation is secure.
You can find further information on the impact of hurricanes on the website of the Caribbean Disaster Emergency Management Agency.
UK health authorities have classified Antigua and Barbuda as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For more information and advice, visit the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
Cases of Chikungunya virus have been confirmed in Antigua and Barbuda. You should take steps to avoid being bitten by mosquitoes.
Most visits to Antigua and Barbuda are trouble-free but there have been incidents of crime including murder, armed robbery and sexual assault. See Crime
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Antigua and Barbuda, attacks can’t be ruled out. See Terrorism
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission. Consular support may be limited and is provided by the British High Commission in Bridgetown, Barbados.
