This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Wallis and Futuna as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Wallis and Futuna to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Wallis and Futuna
To travel within or to transit through French Overseas Territories, you should complete an Attestation de déplacement dérogatoire to certify your reason for travel. You can carry a physical copy or an electronic version of this ‘attestation’ (declaration). You should complete this declaration before starting your journey.
For French Overseas Territories, this declaration does not replace the requirement for an travel certificate, see Entry requirements. Further information is available on the Ministry of Interior webpage.
The French Government outlined new measures on 16 March to stem the spread of coronavirus, which also apply to the French Overseas Territories. This included confining people to their homes except for outings for specific purposes effective from midday 17 March 2020. The local Prefecture website will have details of any further local restriction.
Health
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Wallis and Futuna, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
