Travel to Wallis and Futuna is subject to entry restrictions
Travellers have to produce a negative result of a PCR test carried out less than 72 hours before departure
Travellers have to provide the completed necessary “attestation” which is available from the French government website
It is also necessary to register with the Cellule d’Organisation des Vols (COV) before travelling to Wallis and Futuna. Further information is available on the website of the local Prefecture
Travellers will be subject to a 14-day quarantine upon arrival
Travellers may also need to produce a self-certified document affirming that they have no COVID symptoms and that to their knowledge they have not been in contact with any person confirmed positive within the last 14 days
These entry requirements are subject to change. For further information on the entry restrictions in place for French Overseas Territories, please see the French government’s website before travelling
See Entry requirements for more information before you plan to travel.
Preparing for your return journey to the UK
If you’re returning to the UK from overseas, you will need to:
provide your journey and contact details before you travel
check if you need to self-isolate on your return
If your return journey to the UK transits another country, you should check whether it is subject to a travel ban or any other additional requirements. If so, contact your travel provider.
If you are returning to the UK from Wallis and Futuna, you should check the requirement to self-isolate on entering or returning to the UK.
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
If you’re planning travel to Wallis and Futuna, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCDO’s guidance on foreign travel insurance.
For information about COVID-19 vaccines, see the Coronavirus page.
The Wallis and Futuna Islands are a French Overseas Territory. Consular support is not available from the British government in Wallis and Futuna as there is no resident British Diplomatic Mission. However, the British Embassy in Paris, France can provide consular support to British nationals. See Consular assistance
Most visits to Wallis and Futuna Islands are trouble-free. Crime levels are low.
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Wallis and Futuna, attacks can’t be ruled out. See Terrorism
