Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Guatemala on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travelling abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
You must keep to the social distancing rules and wear a mask at all times, in all public spaces, including the airport.
Guatemala does not permit the entry of travellers who have been in the United Kingdom, Brazil or South Africa in the 14 days prior to their arrival. This measure is not applicable to those who have evidence that they have been vaccinated against COVID-19 at least two weeks before arrival in Guatemala and have received two doses (one dose if vaccinated with the Johnson & Johnson vaccine), Guatemalan nationals, diplomats or foreign nationals who are legal residents in the country who must self-isolate for a period of 10 days at their place of residence. All persons aged 10 or over arriving in Guatemala must present a negative COVID-19 PCR or Antigen test, dated no more than 72 hours prior to check in at the airport, or arrival at land border. Airlines will request proof of a negative test prior to boarding. Health protocols are in effect at ports of entry for the screening of arriving and departing passengers. Non-resident foreigners presenting symptoms of COVID-19 upon arrival may be denied entry into Guatemala.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Guatemala.
Travel in Guatemala
The Guatemalan President declared a State of Prevention from 14 to 29 July 2021to prevent the spread of Coronavirus.
The restrictions during the state of prevention are:
The sale of alcohol is prohibited. The consumption of alcohol is also prohibited in public and commercial establishments open to the public. These restrictions are in place every day from 6pm to 6am until 29 July
Strict enforcement of the measures to prevent the spread of coronavirus in open air events and meetings;
Public demonstrations are permitted as long as they comply with the biosecurity measures ordered by the health authorities;
Local authorities have orders to disband without warning any group or public demonstration carried out without authorisation. Authorised meetings, groups or public demonstrations that turn violent or where weapons are involved or where sanitary measures are not followed may also be disbanded without warning
Only the Security Forces will have the right to carry weapons
Drivers and passengers must follow sanitary measures when in a vehicle, whether the vehicle is stationary or moving
Be prepared to answer questions and cooperate with the local authorities
Restrictions to prevent the spread of coronavirus are in place. If you are in Guatemala you should;
comply with social distancing of at least 1.5 metres;
use of masks is mandatory for the entire population in public, including on the street; also in state or public establishments, private places open to the public, private places of restricted access services and any kind of transport. Children under 2 years of age and those with a medical condition certified by a health professional are exempt from this;
people that have recovered from COVID-19 and those under quarantine must use masks inside their homes;
wash your hands frequently;
frequent and appropriate hand sanitisation;
If you do not comply with these measures you could be fined or face criminal charges. Fines range from £700 to £15,000.
From 30 April, the following measures against COVID-19 took effect:
Visits to beaches, lakes, rivers, resorts and water parks throughout the country will be permitted. There are restrictions on the maximum capacity. Visitors may not stay past 9pm
Fairs are permitted, however, parties, concerts, and “any other activity that generates a congregation of people” in the municipalities with red and orange alerts are prohibited. For fairs, the 9pm restriction also applies
Shopping centres may remain open for entry until 9pm
Supermarkets and food shops may serve until 9pm, but must limit capacity to 50%. Markets must close by 7pm
Restaurants, bars and nightlife venues must continue to close by 9pm
Concerts and mass events are at the discretion of the local authorities, but they must respect the time limit of 9pm
Churches may have face-to-face activities until 8pm
Attendance at funerals and burials is limited to a maximum of 10 attendees. Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Guatemala to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
While the curfew has ended, health measures remain in effect, including maintaining social distancing within businesses and other public facilities based on the health alert level in each location. Every town has been assigned a colour, which corresponds to the number of positive COVID-19 cases reported. Red signifies the highest number of cases, amber signifies a high number of cases, yellow signifies a moderate number of cases and green signifies a lower number of cases. For information about the specific restrictions in your location, refer to the Guatemalan government’s website.
The list of threat ratings for each department and municipality and the activities which are permitted at each threat level can be found on the Guatemalan government’s website.
You should familiarise yourself with the threat level in the area you live in and keep up to date with any changes.
Public transport has reopened in Guatemala, however, there are a number of restrictions on capacity and access can still be very limited. If you wish to move to or from the airport you should hire a private taxi or driver.
For information on entering Guatemala, see Entry Requirements
When travelling in the country, follow the advice of the local authorities (PROATUR) and monitor local media. See Local travel.
Accommodation
If you are trying to find a hotel in Guatemala, please call in advance to confirm that they are taking reservations and to be informed of any measures or requirements they may have.
Healthcare in Guatemala
Many of the hospitals in Guatemala are full given the COVID-19 situation in the country. If you think you have COVID-19 symptoms you should seek medical advice and check the official page where all important information about COVID-19 as well as all advice from the Guatemalan authorities can be found. Please visit the Guatemalan Ministry of Health’s website for information and advice.
British-issued prescriptions cannot be used locally. To find a pharmacy (“farmacia”) look for one of the big national chains such as Meykos, Cruz Verde or Carolina y H, among others; searching online should help you to identify the nearest one. For contact details of English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Guatemala.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Guatemala
As information is available about the national vaccination programme, this page will be updated.
The Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) is the UK authority responsible for assessing the safety, quality and efficacy of vaccines. It has authorised the Pfizer/BioNTech, Oxford/AstraZeneca and Moderna vaccines for temporary supply and use in the UK. Find out more about MHRA approval for these vaccines.
British nationals living overseas should seek medical advice from their local healthcare provider in the country where they reside. Information about vaccines used in other national programmes, including regulatory status, should be available from the local authorities. This list of Stringent Regulatory Authorities recognised by the World Health Organisation may also be a useful source of additional information. Find out more information about the COVID-19 vaccines on the World Health Organization COVID-19 vaccines page.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements. You should contact local authorities for information on testing facilities (only available in Spanish).
Further information
Guatemalan authorities request that people keep up to date with the latest information by visiting the following official page where all important information about COVID-19 as well as all advice from the Guatemalan Ministry of Health can be found.
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
