The information on this page covers the most common types of travel and reflects the UK government’s understanding of the rules currently in place. Unless otherwise stated, this information is for travellers using a full ‘British Citizen’ passport.
The authorities in the country or territory you are travelling to are responsible for setting and enforcing the rules for entry. If you are unclear about any aspect of the entry requirements, or you need further reassurance, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you are travelling to.
You should also consider checking with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Entry rules in response to coronavirus
Guatemala International Airport re-opened on 18 September 2020. You must keep to the social distancing rules and wear a mask at all times, in all public spaces, including the airport.
Since 23 December 2020, Guatemala does not permit the entry of travellers who have been in the United Kingdom or South Africa in the 14 days prior to their arrival. On 16 April, Guatemala included Brazil in this provision. These measures are not applicable to Guatemalan nationals, diplomats or foreign nationals who are legal residents in the country who must instead self-isolate upon arrival for 10 days at their place of residence.
To be eligible for entry, you must comply with the following:
a. You must provide a negative COVID-19 PCR or antigen test, dated no more than 3 days before the date of your arrival in Guatemala. The 3 days commence from the date and time the test is conducted the moment you check-in with the airline
b. If you have been diagnosed with COVID-19 in the past 3 months, you must present a medical certificate from the health clinic where you were treated, that states the date you were diagnosed with COVID-19 (including the copy of the test) and confirmation of your recovery
c. If you have received the COVID-19 vaccine, you must present evidence that you have received 2 doses. The last dose must have been administered no less than 2 weeks prior to the date of travel
d. If for exceptional circumstances you fail to provide the required negative COVID-19 test, you may be allowed to board the flight, and will be required to take the test upon arrival at the airport at a cost of US $25 or Q200 (Quetzales, local currency). This option may change depending on the airline you are travelling with
e. 24 hours before your arrival, you are required to register via the Guatemalan Health Pass website. Once you have submitted your details, you must print the form and bring it with you
Passengers with journeys originating in, or transiting through Brazil, the UK or South Africa will not be permitted to board flights to Guatemala.
Testing/screening on arrival
You should comply with any additional screening or testing measures put in place by the authorities.
Quarantine requirements
There are no quarantine requirements. Upon arrival, you are required to present a negative COVID-19 PCR or antigen test, dated no more than 96 hours before the date of your arrival in Guatemala.
Data collection
24 hours before your arrival, you are required to register your details via the Guatemalan Health Pass website on this link.
Testing on departure
There is currently no testing upon departure in Guatemala. They will take your temperature upon arrival at the airport.
Mexico-Guatemala border
There have been reports of disruptions and tensions at the Mexico-Guatemala border. Periodic closures are possible and you are advised to check with local authorities before attempting to cross the land border.
Regular entry requirements
Visas
British citizens do not need a visa to visit Guatemala for up to 90 days. For further information on entry requirements for tourists and for those planning to work in Guatemala, contact the Guatemalan Embassy in London.
If you wish to extend your visa, you must submit an application to the Guatemalan Institute of Migration in Guatemala City. You can find more information on the website of the Guatemalan Institute of Migration (in Spanish).
If you overstay your visa then you should expect to pay a fine before leaving the country. This fine can only be paid at the main Migration office in Guatemala City. Fines can’t be paid at the airport or land borders.
The State of Calamity, which commenced on 5 March 2020, ended on 5 October. During which time, the length of stay for tourist permits was frozen. Now that the State of Calamity has ended, the length of stay has been unfrozen, and will be deducted as normal.
Passport validity
Your passport should be valid for a minimum period of six months from the date of entry into Guatemala.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are accepted for entry to and exit from Guatemala. ETDs must have a minimum period of 6 months validity from the date you enter Guatemala.
If you’re travelling via the United States of America on an ETD, you’ll need to get a USA visa. For more information, please contact the USA Embassy in Guatemala.
Central America Border Control Agreement
Guatemala is part of the Central America Border Control Agreement (CA-4). Under the terms of this agreement, British tourists can travel within any of the CA-4 countries (Honduras, Nicaragua, El Salvador and Guatemala) for a period of up to 90 days without completing entry and exit formalities at border immigration checkpoints. This period begins at the first point of entry of any of the CA-4 countries. Fines are applied for travellers who exceed this 90-day limit, although a request for an extension can be made for up to 30 days by paying a fee before the 90 days limit expires. If you are expelled from any of the four countries you are also excluded from the entire CA-4 region.
If you are planning on travelling to Nicaragua, before you travel please check information on entry requirements with your travel company, the Nicaraguan Immigration authorities, or your nearest Nicaraguan Embassy. Please also check our travel advice for Nicaragua.
Departure tax
There is a US$30 (or Quetzal equivalent) airport departure tax, which is normally included in the price of the ticket.
When crossing into Guatemala by land border, there have been numerous reports of customs/immigration officials charging an “entry fee”. This is illegal. By asking for an official receipt for your money you may find that the “fee” is dropped.
When entering the country, make sure your passport is stamped by a migration official. If you enter Guatemala without obtaining the relevant stamp, you are likely to receive a fine and may experience delays when leaving the country.
When crossing into Guatemala by the land border at El Carmen, be wary of people offering to help process your entry into the country.
