

If you have a health condition, or you are pregnant, you may need specialist healthcare abroad. Check whether your destination country can provide the healthcare you may need and ensure you have appropriate travel insurance for unexpected medical evacuation or local treatment.
See the Coronavirus travel health and Healthcare sections in the Coronavirus page for COVID-19 health information.
At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
UK health authorities have classified Guatemala as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For more information and advice, visit the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
Hospitals in Guatemala are reluctant to give medical treatment unless they are satisfied that you have medical insurance. It is therefore essential that you carry evidence of your insurance cover at all times. Make sure you get confirmation from the hospital administration that your insurance coverage is accepted. In some hospitals the administration may ask you to pay upfront and you may have to claim on your insurance later. State-funded hospitals are often under-staffed, under-funded, ill-equipped, and can be unhygienic. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment and repatriation.
Water is generally unsafe to drink unless filtered, but bottled water is cheap and widely available.
Cases of Chikungunya virus and Dengue Fever have been confirmed in Guatemala.
Dengue fever epidemics occur every four to five years in Guatemala due to its tropical and subtropical climates.
For information please visit the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
You should take steps to avoid being bitten by mosquitoes.
The water in Lake Atitlan is not safe for drinking, or for swimming in certain areas. Check with local authorities before swimming in the lake, and seek medical advice if you fall ill during or immediately after a trip there.
In the 2013 Report on the Global AIDS Epidemic the UNAIDS/WHO Working Group estimated that around 53,000 adults aged 15 or over in Guatemala were living with HIV; the prevalence was estimated at around 0.7% of the adult population compared to the prevalence percentage in adults in the UK of around 0.2%. Exercise precautions to avoid exposure to HIV and AIDS.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 122 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
