!
Warning
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to parts of Guatemala.

This section has safety advice for regions of Guatemala. It only covers regions where FCDO has specific advice.
You should also read FCDO’s overall travel advice and safety and security advice.
Borders with Mexico, Honduras, El Salvador and Belize
FCDO advises against all but essential travel within 5km of the Mexican border from the Pacific Coast up to and including the Gracias a Dios crossing. This is due to increased and sustained gang-related violence along the Mexico-Guatemala border.
FCDO also advises against all but essential travel to the towns of Santa Ana Huista, San Antonio Huista and La Democracia in the department of Huehuetenango
Pay particular attention to your security in the border areas with Mexico, Honduras, El Salvador and Belize.
Take care near the Belize-Guatemala border because of the ongoing dispute between the 2 countries. Use only officially recognised border crossings.
Ixchiguan and Tajumulco
There is a risk of violent crime in the municipalities of Ixchiguan and Tajumulco in the department of San Marcos. If you plan to travel to these areas, get advice from PROATUR, Guatemala’s tourist assistance service (see Getting help for contact details), including whether current conditions mean it is safe to climb the Tajumulco volcano.
Roads around Sololá, Panajachel and Lake Atitlán
PROATUR, Guatemala’s tourist assistance service (see Getting help for contact details) gives advice on routes when travelling in and around Sololá, Panajachel and Lake Atitlán. PROATUR advises:
to avoid the Godinez bypass between Guatemala City and Panajachel (which passes through Patzún) which is an isolated area with high risks of criminality - the Pan American Highway is an alternative route that will take you from Guatemala City to Sololá avoiding these areas.
to avoid the road between Cocales (Suchitepequez) and San Lucas Toliman (Atitlán) if possible because of the risks of criminality and poor road conditions
Boat services between towns on the shore of Lake Atitlán may be a safer alternative.
