All land, air and maritime borders into Guatemala remain closed. Only Guatemalan nationals, resident foreigners and diplomats are permitted to enter Guatemala, and will be subject to a 15-day quarantine on arrival. See Entry requirements
On 12 April, Guatemalan authorities extended the prohibition of landings and departures of international and local flights, both commercial and private, until further notice, with the exception of rescue-humanitarian, official, military and ambulance flights, that have been authorised by the Presidency of the Republic through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
UK special flights
On 11 June, a special flight will depart from La Aurora International Airport, Guatemala City, to the UK. The flight will go via San Jose, Costa Rica, where passengers will board a transatlantic charter to London Heathrow.
The flight cost is £800 per person regardless of where your journey begins.
These flights are for:
British nationals, normally resident in the UK
dependants travelling with a British national
Vulnerable British nationals will be prioritised.
Vulnerable non-British UK residents with Indefinite Leave to Remain, and other foreign nationals, may be accommodated if there is sufficient capacity.
Your eligibility will be checked before your tickets are issued.
How to book
CTM is working on behalf of the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) to manage special flight bookings.
If you wish to travel, book on the CTM website as soon as possible.
To book flights on the CTM website, you will need:
full passport and contact details for each traveller
your UK home address and postcode
your means of payment, such as credit or debit card details
The booking website is only available to British nationals. If you have difficulty booking online, or if you are a vulnerable non-British UK resident with Indefinite Leave to Remain, or another foreign national, then you will need to contact us. To do so, send an SMS text message containing only your full name to +44 (0)7537 416 125
A member of the CTM team will then be in touch.
Tickets will not be on sale at the airport.
Do not travel to the airport without a confirmed ticket.
You may find it helpful to read our guide to eligibility and the booking process for special charter flights.
Financial support for a flight
If you have exhausted all other options available to you for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government to cover the cost of the ticket.
You would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK.
Our partner CTM is also authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO and details will be available when you are asked to pay.
Travel to the airport
There are currently strict travel restrictions between departments in Guatemala. The Embassy will therefore organise buses to help British Nationals outside of Guatemala City to travel safely to the airport. Once your ticket has been confirmed, the Embassy will be in touch with further information. Passengers travelling during curfew hours will be provided with (salvoconductos) permissions of safe passage.
Registering with the British Embassy
To enable us to respond as quickly as possible to those trying to get home or who are otherwise affected by COVID-19, use the following email address: Consular.Guatemala@fco.gov.uk.
When doing so, you should provide:
your full name
contact details
location
description of the situation.
A member of our consular team will reach out to you as quickly as possible thereafter. If you have already been in direct contact with the consular team, you don’t need to re-send your message.
Future travel options
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK.
For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Your journey home
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
If you’re returning home before 8 June, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others. From 8 June there will be new rules for entering the UK.
Help and support
You should not visit the Embassy unless you have booked an appointment through calling the Embassy number (+502) 22380 7300. If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British Embassy on (502) 2380 7300.
The British Embassy cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone. This page will be updated when departure options become available. To get the latest information, sign up for email alerts about Guatemala travel advice.
If you cannot leave Guatemala
If you cannot leave Guatemala at this time, see advice on staying in Guatemala during coronavirus.
Further information
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England.
