

This guide also has safety advice for regions of Guatemala.
Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Guatemala
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Guatemala, attacks cannot be ruled out.
Political situation  
Following nationwide elections in Guatemala on 20 August 2023, the Guatemalan Public Ministry contested the electoral process. This has resulted in protests and roadblocks across the country, including some zones of:
Guatemala City (zones 1, 2 and 4)
Sololá (Lake Atitlán)
Totonicapán
Alta Verapaz
San Marcos
Quetzaltenango
Sacatepéquez (close to Antigua)
Quiché
the north of Petén
See a list of protests and roadblocks (‘bloqueados’) (in Spanish).
There is an increased police presence in important locations (such as the airport) intended to limit the protests’ impact on services. However, events are fast moving, and the situation has potential to deteriorate without warning.
Most of the protests have been peaceful, but there have clashes between protestors and police, with the use of tear gas.
Avoid all protests and roadblocks and check with local authorities as well as media outlets for the latest information. It is illegal for foreigners to participate in political activities in Guatemala. If you take part in protests, you may be detained and asked to leave the country.
It is unclear when the protests and roadblocks will finish, and they may prevent you from travelling around Guatemala. If they continue, you may need to postpone in-country travel or reschedule your flight. FCDO recommends you stay in a safe place.
Incidents of political violence, strikes and large demonstrations can occur, often with little or no notice. Most demonstrations are peaceful, but they can turn violent. Protestors may block roads and public facilities, including the international airport, without notice.
Crime
Guatemala has one of the highest violent crime rates in Latin America. Although most of the serious crime involves local gangs, incidents are usually indiscriminate and can take place in tourist areas.
No parts of Guatemala City are free from crime, including Zone 10 (Zona Viva), which is popular with tourists and foreign residents. Take care in Zone 1 (the historical centre), where cheaper hotels are located and several bus routes end.
There have been armed attacks on tourists travelling by road to and from major tourist sites like Antigua, Tikal, Petén and Lake Atitlán. See Regional risks.
Violent crime
Carjacking and armed robbery are common on the main road (Carretera Salvador) leading from Guatemala City to the border with El Salvador. Express kidnappings are common in Guatemala. Victims of this type of kidnapping are usually taken to ATMs to withdraw as much cash as possible before they’re released. The use of guns or knives is not uncommon.
Violent attacks, including sexual assault, can take place anywhere and at any time of the day. They usually involve firearms and motorbike riders. Attackers have killed and injured victims who resisted. There is a low arrest and conviction rate.
Protecting yourself and your belongings
You can take precautions such as:
not displaying valuables like laptops, cameras and mobile phones
not wearing a lot of jewellery
carrying only small amounts of cash – avoid withdrawing a lot of money, particularly at night
keeping valuables safe (for example, in a hotel safe)
not travelling alone or at night, especially near borders or in areas without many people
If you go to remote areas, it may be safer to travel with others or a reputable tour company.
For shorter trips within towns and cities the safest option is to take radio-dispatched taxis (which are usually yellow) or hotel taxis. You can buy pre-paid taxi vouchers from the office of INGUAT, Guatemala’s tourist agency (in Spanish) in the airport’s arrivals terminal.
If you’re driving, it is generally safer to travel on main roads. There is a greater risk of attack by gangs on quieter routes. Travel in convoy if possible.
Take care around ATMs, petrol station forecourts, the airport, bus stations and shopping centres.
You can get up-to-date security information from INGUAT.
INGUAT’s tourist assistance and emergency service, PROATUR, will accompany individual tourists or groups travelling in Guatemala if requested (see Getting help).
Buses and coaches
Avoid travelling on public buses (repainted US school buses). There has been an increase in armed attacks by local gangs on bus drivers and conductors, often resulting in serious injury or death. These attacks have included the use of explosives. There have also been violent muggings, rapes and assaults against foreigners.
Private intercity coach services are generally safer, but gangs have also attacked these during daylight hours, even on main roads.
ATM tampering
Check ATMs for evidence of tampering. Affected machines may not be easy to spot. It’s safer to change money in hotels, at banks or at foreign exchange offices.
Bogus police officers
Criminals posing as police officers have committed theft, extortion and sexual assault against visitors to Guatemala. 
Scams
Foreign visitors are at risk of scams. Scams come in many forms and can lead to great financial loss. Warn your friends and family to be sceptical if they’re asked to transfer funds to you in Guatemala. Tell them to contact you to check that you’ve made this request. 
Laws and cultural differences
Personal ID
It is a legal requirement to always carry ID. In most parts of the country, you can carry a copy of your passport’s photo page for identification purposes. In San Pedro La Laguna, Sololá, local authorities may not accept a copy and may fine or detain you if you cannot show your original passport or a certified copy. Always co-operate with military and police officers and be prepared for checkpoints.
Alcohol laws and bans
It is illegal to sell alcoholic and fermented beverages from 1am to 6am. 
Illegal drugs and prison sentences
There are severe penalties for drug trafficking and use. Guatemalan prisons are overcrowded, violent and dirty.
Taking photos without permission
Do not take photographs without permission, especially of children. This is particularly important in more remote areas such as Quiché, Petén, San Marcos and Chiquimula provinces. There have been attacks related to accusations and fears of child kidnapping for adoption or theft of vital organs. Foreigners have been caught up in the violence. You may need to pay a small amount of money to take photographs of both children and adults.
LGBT+ travellers
Homosexuality is not illegal, although there are no laws guaranteeing freedom from discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation. Same-sex marriages are not recognised in Guatemala. In Guatemala City, local people are largely tolerant of different lifestyles. Outside Guatemala City, attitudes are more conservative. Showing affection in public may bring verbal and physical attacks, harassment and discrimination.
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Transport risks
Road travel
If you are planning to drive, see information on driving abroad. 
You can use a UK photocard driving licence to drive in Guatemala for up to 3 months. If you still have a paper driving licence, you may need to update it to a photocard licence or get the correct version of the international driving permit (IDP) as well.
Hire car companies often have stricter requirements for their customers, such as a year of driving experience, a higher minimum age and holding an IDP. 
Driving rules and safety
In Guatemala:
it is illegal to use a mobile phone while driving
speed limits are strictly enforced
motorcyclists must wear an orange vest and helmet with the registration number or face a fine of 1,000 Guatemalan quetzal (around £100)
Drink-driving is a serious offence. If you are tested and found to have any alcohol in your system, you may get a fine, your licence confiscated and possible imprisonment. However, drinking-driving is common in Guatemala.
In more isolated locations, roads are unpaved and you may need a 4-wheel drive vehicle.
If you’re involved in an accident, contact the National Police (telephone: 110) or the fire brigade (telephone: 122 or 123 ) and wait for them to arrive. PROVIAL (telephone: +502 2419 2121 or 1520), a roadside assistance force, patrols most of the major roads in the country. However, patrols are infrequent.
For more information on road laws, see Guatemala Department of Transport (in Spanish).
Intercity buses
Guatemala Municipality no longer allows some intercity buses to enter the city centre. They drop passengers at various points on the city outskirts. 
Outdoor activities and adventure tourism
Climbing volcanoes
Before you climb volcanoes, visit the websites of the Guatemalan Meteorological Office (in Spanish) and CONRED, Guatemala’s disaster agency (in Spanish) for information on access, restrictions and recommendations. Follow the advice of local authorities. Some volcanoes are at high altitude with freezing temperatures at night. Tourists have died of exposure on volcanoes in Guatemala. Warm clothing and waterproofs are essential. Local tour organisers tend to underestimate the risks. There is no mountain rescue service. 
Extreme weather and natural disasters
See extreme weather and natural hazards for information about how to prepare, and how to react if there is a warning.
Rainy season
The rainy season in Guatemala normally runs from June to November – the same time as the hurricane season in the Caribbean. Heavy rains cause frequent flooding and landslides, and roads and bridges often collapse. 
Check local media and consult your tour operator and PROATUR, Guatemala’s tourist assistance service (see Getting help). Travel routes are likely to face disruption. Monitor local and international weather updates from the World Meteorological Organization and the US National Hurricane Center. Follow the advice of the local authorities, including any evacuation orders.
Earthquakes
There are frequent minor earth tremors and there is a risk of earthquakes in Guatemala. The US Federal Emergency Management Agency website has advice about what to do before, during and after an earthquake or tsunami. 
Volcanic eruptions
There is a risk of volcanic eruptions in Guatemala. Monitor local media and seek advice from your tour operator in case of possible travel disruption. For further information see CONRED, Guatemala’s disaster agency (in Spanish).
