This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Guatemala as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Guatemala to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Guatemala
On 12 April, Guatemalan authorities extended the prohibition of all international and domestic flights until further notice with the exception of humanitarian, official, military and ambulance flights that have been authorised by the President through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
For information on entering Guatemala, see Entry Requirements
Restrictions to prevent the spread of coronavirus are in place. If you are in Guatemala you should:
comply with social distancing of at least 1.5 metres
use a face mask in all public spaces, including on the street. People that have recuperated from COVID-19 and those under quarantine must use masks inside their homes
If you do not comply with these measures you could be fined or face criminal charges. Fines range from £700 to £15,000.
Restrictions on movement
Restrictions on movement remain in place. On 10 May, the President announced that people would continue to be unable to travel between departments and that, from 11 May 2020, this measure will be extended to include the whole country until further notice. The existing curfew and other restrictions remain in place.
The President asked people not to leave their homes unless necessary and to continue to abide by measures to prevent the spread of infections. People have been discouraged from travelling to the Municipalities of Chinautla, Mixco, Villa Nueva and Zone 18 in Guatemala City.
All previously announced restrictions will continue, as well as the following:
markets that do not comply with hygiene and virus prevention measures will be closed down
shopping malls that do not remain closed will be prosecuted
health centres that do not report Coronavirus cases will be prosecuted
people caught spreading rumors or fake news linked to Covid-19 will be prosecuted
The following restrictions continue:
public transport is suspended
all sporting, cultural and social events are prohibited
religious gatherings are suspended
all malls, pubs and clubs have been ordered to close
Restaurants are only allowed to serve food using delivery services or drive through options. The sale of alcohol is prohibited between 3pm and 5am as is consumption in public places. Core businesses, such as banks, petrol stations, pharmacies and supermarkets remain open. However, commercial establishments that are allowed to operate will be closed from 9pm to 5am.
Shopping complexes (strip malls, not big shopping malls) can open, if they are compliant with health and safety protocols. The President encouraged people to continue to work from home.Visits to prisons, juvenile centres and elderly care homes are prohibited.
People over 60 years old, pregnant women and children, as well as people with health risks are not allowed to move around the country.
Other measures
Except for the transportation of food, water, medicine and gas distribution sectors, nothing else may be transported. Also exempt are essential services, internet maintenance services and for people with specialised treatments such as hemodialysis. Home delivery services for pharmacies are also exempt.
From 18 May shops selling food, markets and supermarkets can open from 6am to 4pm Monday to Friday.
When travelling in the country, follow the advice of the local authorities (PROATUR) and monitor local media. See Local travel.
Medical care
No more patients will be admitted into Roosevelt hospital. Instead they will be transferred to other hospitals in the capital city. Other facilities will be established for those showing mild symptoms of coronavirus.
Hospitals, medical centres, medical laboratories, veterinaries, drug companies and companies that produce hygiene products are permitted to stay open. Companies in these sectors are allowed to transport their staff with prior authorisation from the Ministry of Economy.
Curfew
A curfew is in place for the whole country. Local authorities announced on 14 June 2020 that the curfew hours from Monday 15 June 2020 are: from 6pm to 5am from Monday to Saturday.
However, from 6pm on Saturday 20 June until 5am on Monday 22 June and from 6pm on Saturday 27 June until 5am on Monday 29 June there will be a full lockdown. If you are found to be outside during these times, you will receive a fine and may face imprisonment.
You should remain indoors while the curfew is in effect, unless you have special permission from the Ministry of Economy to operate during the curfew. During non-curfew hours, physical distance must be maintained and masks must be worn. Shops selling food, local markets and supermarkets will only open Monday to Friday from 6am to 4pm.If you are found outdoors without the necessary permission you will be fined and may potentially face imprisonment.
On 14 June 2020, local authorities announced additional measures for the departments of Guatemala, El Progreso, Sacatepequez and San Marcos, which will be applied from 15 June at 5am until 5am on 29 June 2020. These new measures as as follows:
Temporary vehicle restrictions: Vehicles classified as for private use (type “P” plates), may circulate only according to the following schedule:
Vehicles with Particular circulation plate (“P”) that the alphanumeric identifier contains the third number ending in zero (“0”), two (“2”), four (“4”), six (“6”) , eight (“8”) can circulate on Tuesday 16, Thursday 18, Saturday 20, Monday 22, Wednesday 24 and Friday 26 June, 2020.
Vehicles with Particular circulation plate (“P”) that the alphanumeric identifier contains the third number ending in one (1), three (3), five (5), seven (7), nine (9) can circulate on Wednesday 17, Friday 19, Tuesday 23, Thursday 25, Saturday 27 June, 2020.
This restriction is applicable to vehicles according to the legal definition established in the current Traffic Regulations and is not applicable to motorcycles or motorbikes.
On Sunday 21 June and Sunday 28 June, 2020, vehicles with circulation plates (“P”) will not be permitted to circulate.
If you do not comply with these measures you could be fined and face criminal charges.
Interdepartmental circulation restriction for Guatemala, El Progreso, Sacatepequez and San Marcos: The circulation, transit and interdepartmental movement is strictly prohibited to and from the departments of Guatemala, El Progreso, Sacatepequez and San Marcos. Transportation of health and sanitary emergency equipment, public and private security, food, pharmaceutical products, transportation of values and cargo in general are exempt from this restriction.
Travel restrictions applicable to the whole country: Freedom of movement is limited from 06:00 pm to 05:00 am. All habitants must remain in the place of residence (house, apartment or similar) restriction that includes the transit and movement of people, crew, vehicles and all types of private land transport and passengers, with the exception of Sunday 21 and Sunday, 28 June, 2020, when there will be a total lockdown.
If you are found to be outside during these times, you will receive a fine and may face imprisonment.
Health
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Guatemala.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Guatemala, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
