The FCDO advises against all but essential travel to the whole of Guatemala based on the current assessment of COVID-19 risks.
Travel to Guatemala is subject to entry restrictions
Guatemala does not permit the entry of travellers who have been in the United Kingdom, Brazil or South Africa in the 14 days prior to their arrival. This measure is not applicable to Guatemalan nationals, diplomats or foreign nationals who are legal residents in the country
For a full list of options available to meet the criteria to enter Guatemala, see Entry requirements. These include a negative COVID-19 PCR or antigen test, or evidence that you have been vaccinated against COVID-19 and have received two doses, no less than 2 weeks prior to the date of travel
Local authorities announced that from 6 January 2021, passengers who do not have a negative COVID-19 PCR or antigen test, will be required to take a test upon arrival at La Aurora International Airport at a cost of US $ 25 or Q.200 (Quetzales, local currency). However, passengers with journeys originating in or transiting Brazil, the UK or South Africa will not be permitted to board flights to Guatemala
See Entry requirements for more information before you plan to travel.
Preparing for your return journey to the UK
If you’re returning to the UK from overseas, you will need to:
provide your journey and contact details before you travel
check if you need to self-isolate on your return
If your return journey to the UK transits another country, you should check whether it is subject to a travel ban or any other additional requirements. If so, contact your travel provider.
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
If you’re planning travel to Guatemala, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) guidance on foreign travel insurance.
For information about COVID-19 vaccines, see the Coronavirus page.
You will need to provide contact details on arrival in Guatemala. See entry requirements.
The Government of Mexico has partially closed its land borders with Guatemala, the United States and Belize as a preventive measure against COVID-19. This measure applies to land transit of non-essential activities and will be in place from 19 March to 20 May. For more information on the current restrictions, please contact the Mexican Embassy in Guatemala.
Due to the movement of migrant caravans, you should take extra care at the land border crossings with Honduras and Mexico where a significant security presence is possible. As these migrant caravans move, they may delay or disrupt travel within the country.
15,229 British nationals visited Guatemala in 2019. Most visits are trouble free.
The rainy season in Guatemala normally runs from June to November, coinciding with the hurricane season in the Caribbean. See Rainy season. You should plan any travel carefully. You should monitor local and international weather updates from the US National Hurricane Centre. Follow the advice of local authorities, including any evacuation orders. See Natural disasters.
Guatemala has one of the highest violent crime rates in Latin America. Take care in all parts of the country, including Guatemala City. You should carry personal ID when travelling (certified copies are fine). See Crime
Guatemala has active volcanoes, some prone to heightened activity. From 12 February, local authorities have reported an increase in activity associated with the Fuego and Pacaya volcanoes. La Aurora International Airport is subject to closures at short notice due to volcanic ash affecting the airport operations. You should check with your airline or travel agent ahead of your travel date for the most up to date information. More details can also be found on the websites of the Guatemalan Meteorological Office (INSIVUMEH, in Spanish only) and La Aurora International Airport. Local authorities will continue monitoring the volcanic activity. You should be mindful of the greater risk when in the vicinity of these volcanoes. See Volcanoes
Avoid travelling on public buses (repainted US school buses). Private inter-city coach services are safer, but not immune from attack. See Local travel
UK health authorities have classified Guatemala as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For more information and advice, visit the National Travel Health Network and Centre website
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Guatemala, attacks can’t be ruled out. See Terrorism
You can contact the emergency services by calling 120 (police) or 122/123 (ambulance and fire).
If you are abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.
