Coronavirus health information
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Bahrain on the TravelHealthPro website.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
Commercial flights are now operating to and from Bahrain on a reduced service. Check with your travel company for the latest information.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Bahrain.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements. You should contact the Ministry of Health for information on testing facilities.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, in Bahrain, you will be contacted by the authorities or through the ‘BeAware’ app and subject to quarantine measures, required to self-isolate in a hotel or private accommodation, as well as given health treatment, offered free of charge, at hospital or quarantine centres if necessary.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Bahrain
Bahrain International Airport remains open, including for transit and transfer passengers. All arrivals aged 7 years and above, must:
present a negative PCR test certificate with QR code conducted no more than 72 hours prior to departure (48 hours if arriving from or having transited through Bahrain’s ‘Red List’ countries, currently: Bangladesh, the Dominican, Georgia, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Malawi, Malaysia, Mexico, Mongolia, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Pakistan, Panama, Philippines, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Tunisia, Uganda, Ukraine, Vietnam and Zimbabwe) and
pay for and undergo PCR tests on arrival and on the tenth day of the stay at the airport and testing facility respectively, and
quarantine for a period of ten days in their residence or at a licensed quarantine hotel (proof of residence or hotel booking is required).
In addition, all arrivals from Bahrain’s ‘Red List’ countries must hold Bahraini citizenship or visa residency.
Exemptions to these rules, which include those who have been fully vaccinated in Bahrain, the GCC, or a number of other countries are set out on the Entry requirements page.
For information on this and other updates, including the latest Bahrain ‘Red List’ countries, check Bahrain’s latest COVID-19 decisions and Bahrain’s Airport website.
In addition to fulfilling visa requirements, unvaccinated arrivals into Bahrain via the King Fahd Causeway are required to provide a negative PCR certificate valid from a test taken no more than 72 hours before arrival into the Kingdom of Bahrain, if they are not exempt as set out on the Entry requirements page. The negative PCR test result required can be provided on any official COVID-19 phone application, such as the “BeAware” app, “Tatamman”, “Sehhaty” and “Alhusen”. Travellers can also provide a printed negative PCR certificate containing a QR code. PCR testing services at the Causeway are no longer available.
The King Fahd Causeway reopened on 3 January 2021 to allow travel between Saudi Arabia and Bahrain. Check the latest information on the Saudi Arabia Travel Advice page. From 11 July, travellers who have received two doses of the Sinopharm or Sinovac vaccine are permitted to enter Saudi Arabia via the King Fahd Causeway from Bahrain if they have also received a booster jab that has been approved by the Saudi authorities (Astra Zeneca, Johnson & Johnson, Moderna or Pfizer Biotech).
Accommodation
Accommodation including hotels and private rental properties are permitted to be open, and are subject to public health measures such as the wearing of masks in public areas. Amenities such as restaurant dining and pools are dependent on the current status of Bahrain’s internal COVID-19 Traffic Light Alert System.
Public places and services
On 1 July Bahrain adopted a COVID-19 Traffic Light Alert System, which sets out differing levels of social restriction based on the average COVID-19 positivity rate. Check the detailed measures in force at each alert level. The current level of alert will be announced on Bahrain’s ‘latest COVID-19 decisions’ website.
As essential services, hospitals, pharmacies, banks, food shops and petrol stations are permitted to remain open at all levels of the traffic light system.
Healthcare in Bahrain
If you think you have COVID-19 symptoms, you should call the local hotline of 444 and follow the authorities’ advice. For general COVID-19 enquires within Bahrain, please contact the Ministry of Health or on email at covid19@moh.gov.bh. Those who test positive for COVID-19 will be contacted by the authorities or through the ‘BeAware’ app and subject to quarantine measures, required to self-isolate in a hotel or private accommodation, as well as offered health treatment, free of charge, at hospital or quarantine centres if necessary. Those who test positive but are without symptoms may be permitted to self-isolate at home or at their hotel.
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Bahrain.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you are waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Bahrain
We will update this page when the Government of Bahrain announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Bahrain national vaccination programme started in December 2020 and is using the AstraZeneca, Pfizer-BioNTech, Sinopharm and Sputnik vaccines. The Government of Bahrain has stated that British nationals resident in Bahrain are eligible for vaccination, if they choose to join the programme.
All residents over the age of 18 years (with a valid CPR card) can register online for an appointment to get the COVID-19 vaccine free of charge. Registration for the vaccination programme is also possible through the BeAware Bahrain smartphone application. You can select the type of vaccine you wish to receive. You will then be contacted to confirm the date and time of your vaccination appointment. Individuals over 50 years old are entitled to a walk-in vaccination service, without the need to register ahead. The Bahraini vaccination programme also permits residents aged 12-17 to register for a Pfizer-BioNTech vaccination.
Mobile vaccination units are available for seniors and individuals with special needs.
Registration for the booster doses is available. Individuals can select either the Pfizer-BioNTech (recommended for people 50 years and above and vulnerable categories) or the SinoPharm vaccine.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in Bahrain, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
