This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Bahrain set and enforce entry rules. For further information contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to. You should also consider checking with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Entry rules in response to coronavirus
Entry to Bahrain
Bahrain International Airport remains open, including for transit and transfer passengers, and visas on arrival are available for UK nationals. All arrivals, except for those who fit the exemptions outlined below, must:
present an approved negative PCR test certificate with QR code conducted no more than 72 hours prior to departure (48 hours if arriving from or having transited through Bahrain’s ‘Red List’ countries - currently; Bangladesh, the Dominican, Georgia, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Malawi, Malaysia, Mexico, Mongolia, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Pakistan, Panama, Philippines, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Tunisia, Uganda, Ukraine, Vietnam and Zimbabwe); and
pay for and undergo PCR tests on arrival (at the airport), day five and day ten of the stay (at government testing facilities), as well as;
Quarantine for a period of ten days in their residence or at a licensed quarantine facility (proof of residence or hotel booking is required).
You will be required to download the “BeAware” app in advance of testing, and through which you can pay for the arrival tests. You should check Bahrain’s visa portal for the most up to date information. All arrivals from Bahrain’s ‘Red List’ countries must also have Bahraini citizenship or visa residency to be allowed entry to Bahrain. All arrivals of all ages coming from or having been in or transited through a Bahrain ‘Red List’ country within fourteen days must quarantine for ten days.
Non-vaccinated students (includes those attending schools, kindergartens, nurseries, rehab centres, training centres and institutions) will additionally have to undertake their studies online for the period of ten days after arrival, regardless of exemptions.
Entry rules are subject to change at short notice so travellers are advised to check Bahrain’s latest COVID-19 decisions and Bahrain’s Airport website for information on this and other updates, including the latest Bahrain ‘Red List’ countries.
Flights may also be subject to suspension or a reduced/changed service. You should check with your airline for the most up to date information before travelling to Bahrain and monitor the Bahrain News Agency for further updates as these restrictions may be subject to change.
The King Fahd Causeway is open for travel between Saudi Arabia and Bahrain. In addition to fulfilling visa requirements, those arriving into Bahrain via the King Fahd Causeway are required to provide a negative PCR certificate valid from a test taken no more than 72 hours before arrival into Bahrain, (unless any of the above exemptions apply). The negative PCR test result required can be provided on any official COVID-19 phone application, such as the “BeAware” app, “Tatamman”, “Sehhaty” and “Alhusen”, as well as others. Travellers can also provide a printed negative PCR certificate containing a QR code. PCR testing services at the Causeway are no longer available.
Check the latest travel information for Saudi Arabia on the Travel Advice page. From 11 July, travellers who have received two doses of the Sinopharm or Sinovac vaccine are permitted to enter Saudi Arabia via the King Fahd Causeway from Bahrain if they have also received a booster jab that has been approved by the Saudi authorities (Astra Zeneca, Johnson & Johnson, Moderna or Pfizer Biotech).
Exemptions
Arrivals who can prove official COVID-19 vaccination status from countries that are eligible for an on-arrival visa, which includes the UK, and have not been in or transited through Bahrain’s ‘Red List’ countries within 14 days of arrival in Bahrain, are exempt from quarantine. They will still be required to present a pre-departure PCR test and pay for and undergo the arrival, day five and day ten PCR tests. Those vaccinated in these countries will receive a ‘Vaccination Certification Card’ on arrival which will allow you access to indoor public services in-country, depending on Bahrain’s Traffic Light Alert System. See Public places and services. Travellers are encouraged to review their eligibility for on-arrival visas.
Arrivals who can prove official COVID-19 vaccination status from Bahrain, a country whose vaccination certificate is approved by the Ministry of Health in Bahrain, or countries with which Bahrain has signed mutual recognition agreements (currently Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates, Kuwait, Oman, Greece, Cyprus, Hungary, Israel and Seychelles) are exempt from the pre-departure PCR test and quarantine requirements and will also if needed receive a ‘Vaccination Certification Card’. These arrivals are still required to pay for and undergo testing on arrival and on days five and ten of their stay in Bahrain.
All unvaccinated arrivals aged 12 and under must quarantine for a period of five days in their residence or at a licensed quarantine facility. All arrivals aged 5 and below are exempt from the pre-PCR testing and arrivals testing procedure.
Demonstrating your COVID-19 vaccination status
Bahrain will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 recovery and vaccination record. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
Transiting Bahrain
Transit and transfer passengers are permitted to use Bahrain International Airport without the requirement to undergo testing. You should check Bahrain’s visa portal for the most up to date information.
Testing on arrival
All arrivals into Bahrain must pay for and undergo a PCR test on arrival and self-isolate for 10 days, unless exempt as set out above. Arrivals are also required to undertake a PCR test on day five and day ten of their stay. The fixed fee covers all tests. You will be required to download the “BeAware” app in advance of testing, and through which you can pay for the tests. Those arriving via the King Fahd Causeway will not be tested but, unless exempt, are required to provide a negative PCR certificate valid from a test taken up to 72 hours before arrival into Bahrain.
Quarantine requirements
All arrivals into Bahrain aged 13 years and above, will be required to self-isolate for 10 days as part of the arrivals testing procedure, unless exempt as set out above. Those aged 12 and below are required to self-isolate for 5 days. Those who test positive will be subject to further quarantine measures and health treatment, offered free of charge, at hospital or quarantine centres. Those who test positive but are without symptoms may be permitted to self-isolate at home or at their hotel. Tests can be booked through the “BeAware” app or by calling 444.
The Government of Bahrain has stated that anyone subjected to self-isolation/quarantine must comply or face up to three months in jail and a fine of up to 10,000 BHD. Visit the website of the Government of Bahrain’s Ministry of Health for additional information.
Data collection
All arrivals are required to provide contact details and download the “BeAware” Bahrain app, which will be used to monitor compliance during the self-isolation period. The second and third arrival PCR swab tests can be booked through the app or by calling 444.
Regular entry requirements
Visas
Make sure you check the latest entry requirements with the Embassy of the Kingdom of Bahrain before you travel.
The Government of Bahrain reintroduced visas on-arrival across the Kingdom’s entry points from 4 September 2020. Travellers can also get a visa in advance, either online or from the Embassy of the Kingdom of Bahrain in the UK.
With effect from 22 July 2020, holders of valid visas can enter Bahrain without the need for a letter of prior permission. This excludes visas issued on arrival at Bahrain’s ports and airports. Business visitors should bring a letter of invitation.
Visitors can be issued visas for various lengths up to 6 months, depending on their need and at the discretion of the Immigration Officer. You may be asked to provide evidence of onward or return travel. If you enter as a visitor you must not take up employment.
In Bahrain you can apply to renew your visa at the NPRA at the Ministry of Interior. You can apply for residency through the Labour Market Regulatory Authority (LMRA). Individuals should enquire about their individual circumstances by visiting the NPRA website.
If you are currently a resident of Qatar you require a visa to enter the Kingdom of Bahrain. Visas can be applied for online. You should attach a copy of your Qatari residency card to the application. Failure to obtain a visa in advance will result in a refusal of entry into Bahrain. If intending to travel to Qatar from Bahrain, travellers should ensure they seek advice from airlines or tour operators.
Passport validity
Your passport should be valid for a minimum period of 6 months from the date of entry into Bahrain.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are not valid for entry into Bahrain. However, ETDs are accepted for airside transit and exit from Bahrain, although an exit stamp is also required which can take one week to process. A police report is only needed if the previous passport was lost or stolen. Once the ETD is issued, an exit stamp is required from the Nationality, Passports and Residence Affairs Agency (NPRA). This is only available via online request due to COVID-19 restrictions, by using the link here. This process requires a copy of the ETD, flight ticket and a complete Service Form which can be found here. This form will need to be completed and stamped by the employer or sponsor (please ensure all sections on the form are completed). Please allow up to one week for the production of the exit stamp. British Nationals cannot exit Bahrain without this immigration stamp.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
Exit requirements
You must have legal status in Bahrain when you leave. You may be prevented from leaving Bahrain if you are subject to a travel ban, involved in legal proceedings, have unpaid debt, or are a child subject to a custody dispute. You can be fined if you overstay or fail to extend your legal residency.
Previous travel to Israel
Evidence of a previous visit to Israel like an Israeli entry/exit stamp in your passport doesn’t normally cause any difficulties when entering Bahrain. It is, however, for the Bahraini authorities to determine the right of entry into the country. If you have any concerns, you should contact the Embassy of the Kingdom of Bahrain in London.
