At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Coronavirus
As part of the ongoing global outbreak of coronavirus (COVID-19), some cases have appeared in Bahrain. The Bahraini authorities have introduced a number of measures to limit the spread of the virus. Schools and Universities are closed, gatherings of over 20 people have been banned, some entertainment facilities are closed, restaurants remain open but for takeaway and delivery only. You should comply with any additional screening measures put in place by the authorities.
The Government of Bahrain has suspended visas on-arrival across the Kingdom’s entry points until further notice. Foreign nationals must have a valid entry visa prior to boarding. All arrivals into Bahrain will be subject to quarantine and enhanced testing procedures. Those without symptoms will be required to self-isolate for 14 days on arrival, while those with symptoms will be subject to further quarantine measures.
Additionally all arrivals who have visited or transited Iran, Iraq and Lebanon within 14 days prior to their arrival in Bahrain will be subject to enhanced testing procedures and quarantine at Government facilities.
Depending on the spread of coronavirus, additional countries may be subject to restrictions. Flights may also be subject to suspension or a reduced/changed service. You should check with your airline for the most up to date information before travelling to Bahrain and monitor the Bahrain News Agency for further updates as these restrictions may be subject to change.
For British citizens in Bahrain, you should follow the authorities’ advice, or call the local hotline of 444 if you have concerns about your health.
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
You can find more information about cases in Bahrain on the TravelHealthPro country page.
Local medical care
You will be charged for emergency medical treatment. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 999 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
