Bahrain is a liberal country compared with most others in the region, but many Bahrainis hold conservative social views.
Respect local traditions, customs, laws and religions at all times and be aware of your actions to ensure that they don’t offend, especially during the holy month of Ramadan and Shia religious festivals. Bahrainis observe some religious anniversaries that may not be celebrated in neighbouring Gulf countries.
Offensive language, spitting and aggressive behaviour (including ‘road rage’ hand gestures) are viewed as seriously offensive and can result in imprisonment and deportation.
Social media
Use social media responsibly while you are in Bahrain. Please remember to respect the local culture and public security rules. Posting material (including videos and photographs) online that is critical of the Bahrain government, or appearing to abuse/ridicule/criticise the country, or that is culturally insensitive, may be considered a crime punishable under Bahrain law.
Personal ID
All residents and visitors must carry photographic ID. Under Bahraini law, it’s an offence not to be able to present photographic ID if you’re asked to do so by a member of the Bahraini authorities, and you may be subject to a fine of up to 300BHD.
LGBT+
Bahraini law doesn’t criminalise same sex-activity between consenting adults who are at least 21 years of age, although sodomy is illegal. Bahrain is a liberal country compared with most others in the region, but many Bahrainis hold conservative social views. There are some reported cases of individuals punished for same-sexual activity, but in practice arrests for homosexual behaviour are relatively rare. See our information and advice page for the LGBT+ community before you travel.
See more about living in Bahrain.
Drugs
Illegal drugs are strictly forbidden, even a residual amount. Consuming or carrying illegal drugs, even if you are transiting through the airport from one country to another, can result in imprisonment and deportation. Buying or selling illegal drugs and narcotics is considered a serious crime which can result in life imprisonment.
Some skincare products and E-cigarette refills may contain ingredients that are illegal in Bahrain such as CBD oil.
If you are using prescribed drugs, it is advisable to carry a doctor’s note. If you are bringing prescription drugs into Bahrain you may need to seek prior agreement from the authorities. You should check with the nearest Bahrain Embassy or consulate before you travel.
Alcohol
Alcohol is legal in Bahrain with a number of bars, licensed restaurants and off-licences; however, drunken behaviour in public or driving under the influence of alcohol is against the law, making the offender liable to a fine or imprisonment and/or deportation and withdrawal of their driving licence. Physical assault and damaging public property whilst under the influence of alcohol is an offence, which may lead to a prison sentence.
Drones and UAVs
Flying drones or remote-controlled Unmanned Air Vehicle flying devices either without a valid licence or in restricted airspace is against the law. Please consult the Bahrain Civil Aviation Authority for further details.
Driving in Bahrain
Bahrain has a zero-tolerance policy towards drinking and driving. You can be charged and imprisoned if you are caught with even the smallest amount of alcohol in your system. Tailgating, speeding, racing, lane jumping and using a mobile phone while driving are all against the law and can result in heavy fines. There are numerous speed cameras on the roads and motorways. Wearing a seatbelt is mandatory. Failure to do so can result in a fine.
Dress code in Bahrain
Dress conservatively in public places, especially religious sites.
Bahrainis often dress conservatively in traditional dress and can be offended when people dress inappropriately or not in accordance with Islamic values.
In public places such as shopping malls, restaurants and parks, you are encouraged to dress appropriately. Clothing should not be transparent, indecently expose parts of the body or display offensive pictures or slogans. Be aware that if you enter one of these areas dressed inappropriately you may be asked to leave (most of the larger shopping malls display signs warning that respectable clothing should be worn). Any form of nudity is strictly forbidden, including topless sunbathing. These rules are even more closely observed during Ramadan when modesty is promoted.
Respect for religion in Bahrain
Islamic religious values are greatly respected in Bahrain. Showing any disrespect towards religious beliefs or practices is considered deeply offensive and very likely to result in a heavy fine and/or imprisonment. Other religions are respected in Bahrain and can be followed with freedom.
Muslims pray five times a day. You will notice that the mosques call people to pray through a speaker system *Be aware that drivers who are not close to a mosque, may stop at a convenient lay-by to pray privately
During the holy month of Ramadan, Muslims fast from dawn to sunset. Throughout this month, eating, drinking, smoking, playing loud music and dancing in public places during daylight hours are strictly forbidden and punishable by law, including for non-Muslims.
