

Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.    
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Bahrain
Terrorists are likely to try to carry out attacks in Bahrain.
Attacks could be indiscriminate, including in places visited by foreigners.
Previous attacks using explosive devices in public places have killed and injured people. An attack has not been carried out successfully for several years. 
Terrorists have threatened to carry out attacks in the Gulf region, including on:
residential compounds
military, oil, transport and aviation interests
public places, including restaurants, hotels, beaches, shopping centres and mosques
Be aware of your surroundings, particularly during high profile events, and avoid large demonstrations.
Conflict affecting Lebanon
Ongoing hostilities between Israel and Lebanon could escalate quickly and pose risks for the wider region.
Monitor this travel advice and other media as the situation is changing fast. Follow and contact FCDO travel on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram. You can also get email notifications when this travel advice is updated.
Read FCDO advice if you’re affected by a crisis abroad.
Military activity in the Red Sea area       
There is a military response to Houthi militants’ attempts to disrupt international shipping in the Red Sea. The military activity is limited to the Red Sea and Yemen, but travel advice for nearby countries could change at short notice. You should monitor travel advice and follow instructions from local authorities.
Political situation
Demonstrations and protests take place. This can cause:
disruption to traffic and roadblocks
disturbances in villages and near economic centres
localised clashes between government security forces and protesters
The risk of protest can increase around anniversaries of significant events in Bahrain and can start with little warning. Locations of past protests include:
Sitra
Bani Jamra
Karbabad
Saar
Karzakan
Budaiya Highway and surrounding villages
Diraz
Sanabis
Al Dair
Adliya
Nuwaidrait
You should leave the area if you see a large public gathering or demonstration. In the event of a protest:
remain vigilant
follow the advice of the local authorities
be aware of your surroundings
familiarise yourself with other routes in case you are diverted
If you see a suspect item, move away and call the police on 999 or the Police Hotline 8000 8008. 
Travel on the main routes during daylight hours is generally orderly. There can be a police presence or checkpoints on major roads.    
Political developments in the wider region have an impact on local public opinion and actions. Be aware of local sensitivities, follow news reports and be alert to local and regional developments, which could lead to public disturbances.
Crime
Crime is low in most areas, but you should take normal precautions to protect your belongings. For personal safety, only use reputable taxi companies.
Laws and cultural differences
Bahrain is a liberal country compared to others in the region, but there are still conservative social views.
You should respect local traditions, customs, laws and religions and make sure your actions do not cause offence, especially during Ramadan and Shia religious festivals. Bahrainis observe some religious anniversaries that may not be celebrated in other Gulf countries.
Personal ID
You must carry photo ID such as a passport by law. You could be fined up to 300 Bahraini dinars if you cannot show photo ID if asked by the Bahraini authorities.
Dress code
Dress conservatively in public places, particularly religious sites.
Bahrainis often dress conservatively in traditional dress. You could cause offence if you dress inappropriately or not in accordance with Islamic values.
Dress appropriately and modestly in public places, such as malls, restaurants, and parks. Clothing should not:
be transparent
expose shoulders or knees if you are a woman
display offensive pictures or slogans
Nudity is strictly forbidden, including topless sunbathing. These rules are even more closely observed during Ramadan when modesty is promoted.
Respect for religion
Islamic religious values are respected in Bahrain. Any disrespect towards religious beliefs or practices is considered deeply offensive and will likely lead to a heavy fine or a prison sentence.
Muslims pray 5 times a day. Drivers may stop in lay-bys to pray.
Other religions are respected in Bahrain and can be followed with freedom.
Ramadan  
Ramadan is a holy month for Muslims. The dates vary by year and country. During this time, do not:
eat, drink, smoke or chew gum in public in the daytime, including in your car
play loud music or dance
swear in public
These actions could amount to a crime under Bahraini law. Get more advice when you arrive from your tour guide, hotel or business contacts.
You should also:
check opening hours of shops and restaurants
be aware that if hotels and restaurants are providing food or drink in fasting hours, they may separate you from Islamic guests, for example with screens
follow local dress codes – clothing that does not meet local dress codes may cause more offence at this time
be aware that driving may be erratic, particularly when people are trying to get home at dusk
be aware that fasting can cause tiredness, particularly during the later afternoon and early evening
be patient and show tolerance
Public offences
Offensive language, spitting and aggressive behaviour (including ‘road rage’ hand gestures) are seen as seriously offensive and can result in a prison sentence and deportation.
Social media
Respect the local culture and public security rules when using social media. It could amount to a crime if you post online any message, video or photograph, that:
is critical of the Bahrain government or monarchy
appears to abuse, ridicule or criticise the country
is culturally insensitive
Alcohol laws and bans
Alcohol is legal in Bahrain. However, drunken public behaviour is against the law. You could be fined, imprisoned or deported.
Security officers and airline staff will not tolerate passengers believed to be drunk at the airport, including those who are in transit. You may be denied boarding, detained and fined.
Illegal drugs and prison sentences
Illegal drugs are strictly forbidden, even a residual amount. Consuming or carrying illegal drugs, even if you are travelling through the airport, can lead to a prison sentence and deportation. Buying or selling illegal drugs and narcotics is illegal and can lead to a life sentence.
Some skincare products and e-cigarette refills may contain ingredients that are illegal in Bahrain, such as CBD oil.
Drones and UAVs
It is illegal to fly drones or remote-controlled unmanned aerial vehicle flying devices without a valid licence or in restricted airspace. See the Bahrain Civil Aviation Authority for further details.
LGBT+ travellers
Same-sex sexual activity between consenting adults who are at least 21 years old is not prohibited by law. However, public displays of affection can cause offence and are illegal. While arrests are rare, there are some reported cases of individuals punished for same-sex activity.  
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Transport risks
Road travel
If you are planning to drive in Bahrain, see information on driving abroad.
You can use a UK photocard driving licence to drive in Bahrain for up to 3 months. If you still have a paper driving licence, you may need to update it to a photocard licence.
If you are staying longer than 3 months, you’ll need to have the 1968 version of the international driving permit (IDP) or apply for a Bahraini driving licence. You cannot buy an IDP outside the UK, so get one before you travel.
Drink-driving is a serious offence in Bahrain. If you are tested and found to have any alcohol in your system, you may get a fine, a travel ban and a possible prison sentence.
Sea travel 
There is a curfew on the waterways around Bahrain between 6.30pm to 4am.
The local authorities are sensitive to the security around the sea areas of the Gulf. Vessels entering these waters or posts can be detained and inspected, and there have been occasional arrests. Make sure you have the necessary clearances before you enter the waters or visit ports. Avoid any sensitive areas.
Take care when travelling by local sailing boats (‘dhows’). The safety of these vessels may not comply with UK standards. Make sure lifejackets are available.
