Coronavirus guidance is being updated.
Read the Prime Minister’s statement for the latest information.

This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Bahrain as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Bahrain to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Bahrain
For information on entering Bahrain, see Entry Requirements.
Increased social distancing measures came into effect 26 March – 9 April and again from 23 April. It is now mandatory to wear face masks in public, with fines of 5 Bahraini Dinars for failure to do so.
Schools and universities are closed, gatherings of over 5 people have been banned, all shops are open, with strict social distancing measures in place. Restaurants remain open for delivery only. You should comply with any additional measures put in place by the authorities.
Visas
The Nationality, Passports and Residence Affairs Authority announced the validity of all valid and expired visit visas will automatically be extended for three months, starting from 23 April.
For British citizens in Bahrain, you should follow the authorities’ advice, or call the local hotline of 444 if you have concerns about your health.
Health
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Bahrain.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Bahrain, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
