Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Spain on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Entry and borders
Entry requirements and testing requirements are currently in force for travel into Spain, see Permitted reasons to enter Spain and Testing requirements.
Travel in Spain
You should follow the advice of the local authorities on how best to protect yourself and others, including any measures that they bring in to control the virus.
On 25 October 2020, the Spanish government declared a nationwide State of Emergency which includes a national obligatory overnight curfew (specific curfew times vary, starting between 10pm and midnight and lasting until 6am). It also provides regional governments with legal powers to impose further mobility restrictions in their region if deemed necessary (e.g. entry and exit restrictions to and from specific areas).
The situation is evolving and restrictive measures to control the virus may be introduced across the country at short notice. You will need to meet the requirements and be prepared to demonstrate with documentary evidence an essential need to enter Spain. You should consult the Spanish Ministry of Health map for details of local outbreaks and the specific measures in place in your destination. You should also check the advice of local authorities in your destination prior to travel.
There are some exemptions to entering and exiting confined areas or travelling during the hours of curfew such as travel to your place of employment, attendance at medical appointments or transiting the area to return to your place of residence. Entry for tourism purposes is not currently permitted and should be avoided. See Road travel
Many municipal and regional authorities have introduced other types of measures such as limiting the opening hours and capacity of bars and restaurants, and in some places these remain closed until further notice. See Public spaces and services for further information.
The use of face coverings is mandatory for anyone over the age of 6 years old on all forms of public transport in Spain and in many other indoor and outdoor public spaces. Rules on the use of face masks may vary by region. See Use of face masks for further details.
Road travel
Land borders are open.
The Spanish government has implemented testing requirements for those travelling overland from France into Spain by road or rail. See Testing requirements for details.
The French government has implemented additional entry requirements for those travelling to and transiting through France. If you are planning to drive from Spain through France, check the latest FCDO travel advice for France ahead of your journey.
Portuguese authorities are enforcing border control checks at the land border with Spain. Only cross-border workers, goods traffic and those entering or exiting Portugal to return to their usual place of residence will be granted passage. Rail and ferry connections between Spain and Portugal have been suspended. See FCDO travel advice for Portugal.
On 25 October 2020, the Spanish government declared a nationwide State of Emergency which includes a national obligatory overnight curfew (specific curfew times vary, starting between 10pm and midnight and lasting until 6am). It also provides regional governments with legal powers to impose further mobility restrictions in their region if deemed necessary (e.g. entry and exit restrictions to and from specific areas).
Inter-regional travel may be restricted if your point of origin and destination fall within a confined area where entry and exit restrictions are in place. You should check the advice of local authorities in your destination prior to travel.
Transiting confined areas is permitted; however, you should be prepared to show evidence of your onward journey such as train or flight tickets to your final destination.
If you need to travel during the hours of curfew, you should carry evidence of your reason for travel such as a certificate from your employer, proof of medical appointment, or proof of onward journey such as train or flight tickets. To find out more about specific exemptions you should refer to guidance from local authorities.
If travelling with people who are not from the same household, all passengers must wear a face mask covering the nose and mouth. Penalties may be imposed if you do not comply. See Use of face-masks.
Public spaces and services
Social distancing measures and other safety precautions should continue to be observed at all times.
Many municipal and regional authorities have introduced other types of measures such as limiting the opening hours and capacity of bars and restaurants, and in some places these remain closed until further notice. You should refer to local authorities for any additional measures where you are as this may vary from one region to the next. See the Ministry of Health’s map of regional measures (Spanish language only).
Key common measures across Spain include:
social gatherings are limited to a maximum of 6 people outdoors and a maximum of 4 people inside restaurants and bars
people from different households are not allowed to meet indoors in private homes (unless they have caring responsibilities for a dependent).
social distancing of 1.5 metres.
obligatory use of face masks in public spaces (see Use of facemasks).
abiding by any safety measures put in place by establishments such as hotels, bars, shops and restaurants to reduce the risk of COVID-19.
track and trace – all shops, businesses and transport companies are obliged to keep customers’ contact information (where provided) for up to 4 weeks for tracking and tracing purposes.
capacity restrictions in place at beaches or other public areas such as the delineation of plots and the use of booking systems. You should refer to local authorities for information on the measures in place.
if visitors test positive or develop symptoms during their stay in Spain, they may be moved to specific designated accommodation to prevent further spread.
wash your hands frequently and thoroughly and use hand sanitizer gel where soap and water is not available.
Use of face masks
The use of face coverings is mandatory for anyone over the age of 6 years old on all forms of public transport in Spain and in many other indoor and outdoor public spaces, even when social distancing of 1.5 metres is observed.
Specific rules on the use of face masks may vary from one region to the next. You should refer to local authorities for advice. Penalties may be imposed if you do not comply.
You should carry a face mask with you at all times and be prepared to wear it during your stay. Face masks must cover the nose and mouth.
There are some exceptions to the use of face masks such as when practising sport, eating or drinking, or at the beach, however rules may vary from one region to the next. You should refer to local authorities for specific information on face-covering requirements and any exceptions where you are.
Those with respiratory problems or those unable to wear a mask due to other health conditions or disabilities are exempt from this rule. More details are available from the Ministry for Health (in Spanish).
While not mandatory, the use of face masks on children between 3 and 5 years of age is recommended.
Healthcare in Spain
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers and healthcare for UK nationals visiting Spain.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
If you cannot travel back to the UK due to ill health or reduced mobility, you may wish to consider looking for longer-term accommodation in Spain until the State of Emergency is lifted. If you need medical treatment, the UK EHIC is still valid until it’s expiry date.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Spain.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Spain
Wherever possible British nationals should aim to be vaccinated in the country where they live. As further information is available about the national vaccination programme, this page will be updated. Sign up to get email notifications.
Spain operates its health system regionally, therefore the way people access the vaccine will differ depending on where you live. You should refer to your regional health authority for information regarding the vaccination plan in your area. If you are already registered for public healthcare you should be contacted by your regional health service to make an appointment when it is your turn to be vaccinated. Further information is available below if you live in Spain but are not registered for public healthcare, for example, if you have private health insurance.
For more general information from the Spanish government regarding vaccines in Spain, see their vaccination strategy (only available in Spanish).
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Spain but are not registered for public healthcare
We have received the following information from certain Spanish regional healthcare authorities for those who are not registered for public healthcare (for example, those who have private health insurance). Please be aware that this is information from the Spanish authorities and is subject to change. Some information may only be available in Spanish.
Andalusia: You should visit Andalusia’s health service website for details on how to register for the vaccine. More information on the campaign is available on the Andalusia’s vaccine website
Balearic Islands: You should call 971 211 999 to register for the vaccine. More information is available from the Balearic Islands health service website
Canary Islands: We are awaiting further information from the Government of the Canary Islands regarding their vaccine plan for those who do not have public healthcare, and will update this section in due course. You should call 012 for information about registering for the vaccine
Catalonia: You should visit the Catalan regional government website for information on the vaccine programme roll-out in Catalonia and to apply online
Madrid region: You should call 900 102 112 to register for the vaccine. For more information see the Madrid regional government website
Murcia: You should register online for the vaccine at the Murcia’s health service website or call 900 121 212
Valencia region: You should go to your local health centre to register. You will be given a provisional health card to cover the vaccination and any other public health needs. You should visit the Valencia regional government health service website to check and update your contact details
If the region you live in is not listed above, you should contact your local health centre or private insurance company for further information.
We are aware that some people have been able to sign-up to the vaccine list in their region by registering temporarily at their local health centre with their residency document. This temporary registration is known as an ‘alta temporal’. You should contact your local health centre for further information.
Details for further regions will be added to this page once available.
The Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) is the UK authority responsible for assessing the safety, quality and efficacy of vaccines. It has authorised the Pfizer/BioNTech, Oxford/AstraZeneca and Moderna vaccines for temporary supply and use in the UK. Find out more about MHRA approval for these vaccines.
British nationals living overseas should seek medical advice from their local healthcare provider in the country where they reside. Information about vaccines used in other national programmes, including regulatory status, should be available from the local authorities. This list of Stringent Regulatory Authorities recognised by the World Health Organisation may also be a useful source of additional information. Find out more about COVID-19 vaccines on the World Health Organisation COVID-19 vaccines page.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements.
If you are unable to return to the UK before the expiry of your visa/permit or visa-free limit due to C-19 restrictions, you should contact your local immigration office (Extranjería) for advice. You can also call 060 from a Spanish phone line.
Further information
For more information from the Spanish authorities, see the Spanish Ministry of Health website or their official Twitter channel.
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
