

The Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) cannot provide tailored advice for individual trips. Read this travel advice and carry out your own research before deciding whether to travel.
Emergency services in Spain
Telephone:
112 (ambulance, fire, police)
Make sure you know the contact details of the local emergency services and the location of the nearest police station.
Reporting crime
To report a crime, including stolen property and lost or stolen passports, visit the nearest National Police (‘Policia Nacional’), regional police (‘Ertzaintza’ in the Basque Country, ‘Mossos d’Esquadra’ in Catalonia, and ‘Policia Foral’ in Navarre) or Civil Guard (‘Guardia Civil’) station to file a police report (‘denuncia’).
Some Spanish cities also offer a Foreign Tourist Assistance Service (‘Servicio de Atención al Turista Extranjero’ or ‘SATE’) run by the Town Hall and National Police where you will be able to report a crime in English.
Violent crime or sexual assault must be reported in person at the nearest police station. If you’ve had belongings stolen, you’ll need to keep the police report for insurance purposes.
While in Spain, you can also call a dedicated English-speaking police line on +34 90 210 2112 from 9am to 9pm Monday to Friday (not available on public holidays or weekends), or file a police report online for minor offences such as bag or car theft.
If your passport is lost or stolen, you’ll need to apply for an emergency travel document from the nearest British Consulate and to apply for a replacement passport when you return to the UK.
Contact your travel provider and insurer
Contact your travel provider and your insurer if you are involved in a serious incident or emergency abroad. They will tell you if they can help and what you need to do.
Refunds and changes to travel
For refunds or changes to travel, contact your travel provider. You may also be able to make a claim through insurance. However, insurers usually require you to talk to your travel provider first.
Find out more about changing or cancelling travel plans, including:
where to get advice if you are in a dispute with a provider
how to access previous versions of travel advice to support a claim
Support from FCDO
FCDO has guidance on staying safe and what to do if you need help or support abroad, including:
finding English-speaking lawyers, funeral directors and translators and interpreters in Spain
dealing with a death in Spain
being arrested in Spain
getting help if you’re a victim of crime
what to do if you’re in hospital
if you are affected by a crisis, such as a terrorist attack
Contacting FCDO
Follow and contact FCDO travel on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram. You can also sign up to get email notifications when this travel advice is updated.
Help abroad in an emergency
If you are in Spain and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the British Embassy in Madrid or your nearest consulate.
You can also contact FCDO online.
FCDO in London
You can call FCDO in London if you need urgent help because something has happened to a friend or relative abroad.
Telephone: 020 7008 5000 (24 hours)
Find out about call charges
Living in Spain
If you’re living in or moving to Spain, read the Living in Spain guide in addition to this travel advice.
Risk information for British companies
The Overseas Business Risk service offers information and advice for British companies operating overseas on how to manage political, economic, and business security-related risks.
