

Before you travel check that:
your destination can provide the healthcare you may need
you have appropriate travel insurance for local treatment or unexpected medical evacuation
This is particularly important if you have a health condition or are pregnant.
Emergency medical number
Dial 112 and ask for an ambulance.
Contact your insurance or medical assistance company promptly if you’re referred to a medical facility for treatment.
For more information read guidance on healthcare when travelling in Europe.
Vaccinations and health risks
At least 8 weeks before your trip check:
the latest information on vaccinations and health risks in TravelHealthPro’s Spain guide
where to get vaccines and whether you have to pay on the NHS travel vaccinations page
Medication
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or bought in the UK may be different in Spain.
TravelHealthPro explains best practice when travelling with medicines.
The NHS has information on whether you can take your medicine abroad.
Health insurance cards
Apply for a free UK Global Health Insurance Card (GHIC) or European Health Insurance Card (EHIC) before leaving the UK. If you already have an EHIC, it will still be valid as long as it remains in date.
The GHIC or EHIC entitles you to state-provided medical treatment necessary during your trip. Any treatment provided is on the same terms as Spanish nationals. If you do not have your EHIC with you or you’ve lost it, contact the NHS Overseas Healthcare Team.
It’s important to take out appropriate travel insurance for your needs. A GHIC or EHIC is not an alternative to travel insurance and you should have both before you travel. An EHIC or GHIC does not cover all health-related costs, for example, medical repatriation, ongoing medical treatment and non-urgent treatment. Read more about what your travel insurance should cover.
EHIC and GHIC cover state healthcare only, not private treatment. You will be responsible for the cost of any treatment provided by a private doctor or private clinic.
For information regarding access to healthcare in Spain see healthcare for UK nationals visiting Spain.
Healthcare facilities in Spain
You can view a list of English speaking doctors in Spain.
If you need hospital treatment in Spain you’re more likely to receive appropriate care in a public healthcare facility. However, in some tourist areas there may not be any public healthcare facilities nearby. Your insurance or medical assistance company will be able to provide further details. Some hotels may call private doctors or ambulances to take patients to private hospitals. The GHIC or EHIC will not be accepted there. For more information, visit Healthcare for UK nationals.
COVID-19 healthcare in Spain
Rapid lateral flow tests (‘pruebas de antígenos’) are widely available in pharmacies in Spain for a fee.
If you have symptoms or test positive for COVID-19 during your stay in Spain, you are not required to self-isolate.
Hotels and other accommodation providers may have their own COVID-19 protocols in place. Follow any safety measures put in place by your accommodation provider. Your accommodation provider may have a list of private doctors that they can call to assess your symptoms and conduct a COVID-19 test.
Follow the advice of the local authorities.
Travel and mental health
Read FCDO guidance on travel and mental health. There is also guidance on TravelHealthPro.
