There remain commercial options to return to the UK from Spain.
If you live in the UK and are currently visiting Spain, you’re strongly advised to return now by commercial means. Don’t run the risk of getting stranded.
UK special charter flights will only operate for priority countries where commercial flights are not possible. You should not assume that these flights will become available in countries where commercial routes are operating. Please do not contact the contracted travel management company if no flight is advertised here.
Flights
Airports across Spain remain open, but airlines are operating heavily reduced services and you may have to be flexible about your departure and arrival airport. Flights are subject to cancellation at short notice.
There are currently regular direct flights to the UK from Barcelona, Madrid, Las Palmas de Gran Canaria, Tenerife South and Gibraltar, as well as indirect flights from other Spanish airports via Barcelona and Madrid.
Check airline websites, including comparison websites for the latest times and information.
Travel to airports to leave Spain is still permitted, but you may be asked to provide evidence that you are departing Spain (i.e. plane ticket).
Road travel
Land borders remain open to leave Spain.
Although driving restrictions are in force in Spain and inter-regional travel is not permitted, the Spanish Interior Ministry and Policia Local have confirmed that cars and minivans carrying families/groups of passengers is permitted, as long as the purpose of the journey is to return to your country of residence. All passengers should carry their passports, proof of onward travel (ie ferry or Eurotunnel tickets) and country of residency. You may also find this letter useful if you are required to explain your reason for travel.
Travel via France
You can still drive through France to return to the UK. The French government have implemented their own measures, including required documents for travel into, and transit through, France. Check the latest FCO travel advice for France ahead of your journey.
Travel via Gibraltar
British travellers wishing to enter Gibraltar from Spain to fly on to the UK should arrive in Gibraltar on the day of flight departure and make their way straight to the airport terminal. You will need to present evidence of a confirmed flight booking to both the Spanish and Gibraltarian immigration officers.
The Gibraltar airport terminal building does not stay open overnight and it is NOT permitted to spend the night there. Check the latest FCO travel advice for Gibraltar ahead of your journey.
Ferry travel
There are currently no scheduled passenger ferries operating between Spain and the UK. We are working closely with Brittany Ferries who may be able to assist repatriating a small number of people on their freight services. If your ferry has been cancelled and you wish to return to the UK, please contact the British Embassy online stating your name and booking reference number.
Future travel options
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK.
For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Your journey home: re-entering the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK. You:
need to provide your journey and contact details up to 48 hours before you’re due to arrive in the UK
are not allowed to leave the place you’re staying for the first 14 days you’re in the UK except in very limited situations (known as ‘self-isolating’)
See also the list of people who are exempt from the border rules.
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) also provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact the British Embassy. The Embassy cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone.
If you cannot leave Spain
See advice on staying in Spain during coronavirus.
See additional advice on what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
