

You should also read FCDO’s overall travel advice.
Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British Nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British Nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Spain
Terrorists are likely to try to carry out attacks in Spain.
Attacks could be indiscriminate, including in places visited by foreigners. Stay aware of your surroundings, keep up to date with local media reports and follow the advice of local authorities.
Recent terrorist attacks in Spain include:
in January 2023, one person was killed and others injured in a machete attack at 2 churches in Cadiz
in 2017, 14 people were killed and over 100 injured across 2 incidents where vehicles were driven into pedestrians in Barcelona and Cambrils
Political situation
Demonstrations, political gatherings or marches can take place with little or no warning, particularly in cities. Follow the advice of police and local authorities.
While most demonstrations are peaceful, there is a risk of unrest or violence. If you’re in and around areas where demonstrations are taking place, be aware of what is happening around you and move away if there are signs of disorder.
Crime
Protecting your belongings
Most visits to Spain are trouble-free, but be alert to street crime. Thieves use distraction techniques, and often work in teams. Take care of your passports, money and personal belongings, particularly when collecting or checking in luggage at the airport, and while arranging car hire.
Do not carry all your valuables in one place. Keep a photocopy or scanned copy of your passport somewhere safe.
Make sure your accommodation has adequate security. Lock all doors and windows at night, or when out. If concerned about the security of your accommodation, speak to your travel operator or the property owner.
Vehicle crime
‘Highway pirates’ target foreign-registered and hire cars, especially those towing caravans. They may (forcefully) try to make you stop, claiming there is something wrong with your car or that you have damaged theirs. If you decide to stop to check the condition of a vehicle, stop in a public area with lights, such as a service station. Be wary of anyone offering help.
When driving, be wary of approaches by people posing as police officers in plain clothes travelling in unmarked cars. In all traffic-related matters, police officers will usually be in uniform. All police officers, including those in plain clothes, carry official ID. Unmarked police vehicles have a flashing electronic sign on the rear window which reads Police (‘Policía’) or Civil Guard (‘Guardia Civil’), and may use blue flashing lights. Genuine police officers will only ask you to show them your documents and will not ask for your bag or wallet.
Attacks and sexual assault
In an emergency call 112.
Attacks, including sexual assaults, are rare but do occur. See Get help if you are a victim of crime abroad.
Avoid splitting up from your friends, do not leave drinks unattended and do not go off with people you do not know. Save the location of your accommodation on your maps app, so it’s easy to find. See TravelAware ‘Stick with your mates’ for tips and advice.
British Consulates in Spain (+34 917 146 300 or +44 207 008 5000) can provide local information and support.
Drink and food spiking
Be alert to the possible use of ‘date rape’ and other drugs including GHB and liquid ecstasy.
Buy your own drinks and always keep them in sight to avoid them being spiked. Alcohol and drugs can reduce your vigilance, making you less in control. If you drink, know your limit. Drinks served in bars in Spain are often stronger than those in the UK.
Scams
Thieves posing as police officers may ask to see your wallet, claiming they need to see it for identification. Genuine police officers will ask to see ID, but will not ask for wallets or purses.
Timeshare and holiday clubs
Timeshare ownership is well established in Spain. There are respected companies, agents and resorts who operate legally and fairly. However, there are also unscrupulous companies who falsely claim to provide incentives.
Read timeshare fraud advice from Action Fraud, the UK’s national fraud reporting centre.
Laws and cultural differences
Personal ID
You must provide photo ID if requested by a police officer. This includes the Guardia Civil and national, regional and local police forces. The police have the right to hold you at a police station until they have confirmed your identity.
Ignoring direct requests of a police officer can be considered as ‘disobedience’, which is a criminal offence.
Hotels, tourist accommodation and car rental companies have a legal duty to register passport details of tourists when they check-in or collect a vehicle.
When checking-in to your accommodation, wait until hotel staff have registered your passport details, or taken a photocopy of your passport. Do not leave your passport at reception to collect later.
You may need to show ID when buying goods with credit or debit cards. Your driving licence or a photocopy of your passport may be accepted, but they may need you to show your original passport.
Alcohol laws and bans
You cannot drink alcohol in the street in some areas of Spain. You can be given an on-the-spot fine. There are strict controls on drinking and sexual activity in public places, including on beaches.
Alcohol laws in the Balearic Islands
Local laws limit the sale and availability of alcohol in areas of some resorts on the islands of:
Mallorca
Magaluf (Calvià)
Playa de Palma
Ibiza
San Antonio (San Antoni de Portmany)
This prohibits:
happy hours
open bars (such as all you can drink in 1-hour offers)
the sale of alcohol from vending machines
self-service alcohol dispensers
the organising of pub-crawls and party boat trips
‘off-licence’ sales between 9:30pm and 8am
Hotels and other establishments are obliged to evict customers who behave dangerously on balconies. Both the customer and the establishment can be fined for such behaviour.
Illegal drugs and prison sentences
Possession of even a small quantity of drugs can lead to arrest and detention. Possession of large quantities will usually result in prosecution and a prison sentence.
Illegal commercial parties in villas and private homes
There have been a number of serious accidents involving people attending illegal commercially promoted parties in villas and private homes on the islands of Ibiza and Mallorca.
Licensed clubs and bars are required to meet safety and security standards, including emergency exits and capacity limits, and to have trained, licensed security staff. Illegal commercial parties may not meet these standards. Take care of your belongings, make sure you know where emergency exits are and do not take unnecessary risks.
You may receive a fine for attending illegal commercially promoted parties.
Dress
In some parts of Spain it’s against the law to be in the street wearing only a bikini or swimming shorts. Being bare-chested is also illegal in some areas in Spain. You may be fined if you’re caught wearing swimwear on the seafront promenade or adjacent streets.
For security reasons, some public authorities in Spain do not allow the burka or niqab to be worn in their buildings. If you visit town council buildings wearing a burka or niqab, you may be asked to remove it while inside.
Changing money
When changing money, always use official money exchange offices or banks because unofficial money changers may give you counterfeit money. Possession or use of counterfeit money is considered a serious crime in Spain and may lead to prosecution.
LGBT+
Spain is a generally tolerant and progressive place for LGBT+ travellers. There are active LGBT+ communities and social venues, particularly in big cities. Same-sex marriage has been legal in Spain since 2005. Since 2007, transgender people are able to register under their preferred sex in public documents such as birth certificates, identity cards and passports without undergoing prior gender reassignment surgery. Spain does not recognise a third gender.
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Outdoor activities and adventure tourism
Falls from height
There have been a number of very serious accidents (some fatal) as a result of falls from height, including balconies. Many accidents have involved British nationals, and have had a devastating impact on those involved and their loved ones.
Do not take unnecessary risks around balconies or other high places, particularly if you’re under the influence of drink or drugs. If you are staying in a room with a balcony, follow the safety advice and watch out for friends who may be at risk.
In some regions you may be fined or evicted from your hotel if you are found to be behaving irresponsibly around balconies. Your travel insurance may not cover you for incidents that take place on a balcony or if you were under the influence of drink or drugs when the incident happened.
Festivals, concerts and processions
Many large events and public processions are held in Spain each year. Follow the advice of police and local authorities when attending events.
Take care of your valuables if attending a festival or large concert. See the festival travel checklist for more advice.
Swimming and beaches
Every year, people drown in the sea and in swimming pools in Spain. Children should always be supervised, even if they can swim or there is a lifeguard present.
Take care when swimming in the sea. Some beaches, especially around Spanish islands, may have strong undercurrents.
Avoid swimming at beaches that are close to rivers. Do not dive into unknown water as hidden rocks or shallow depths can cause serious injury or death.
Many beaches have a flag system. Make sure you understand the system and follow any warnings (a red flag means you must not enter the water). Take extra care and seek local knowledge if there are no lifeguards, flags or signs.
If you are walking along unmanned beaches, be aware that waves can come in further than expected and have strong undertows.
Further tips can be found on ABTA’s swim safe pages and the Royal Life Saving Society’s ‘Water Safety on Holiday’ page.
Follow local advice if jellyfish are present.
Hill walking, skiing and mountain activities
Temperatures in some parts of Spain can change very quickly. Take extra care when planning a hike or walk. Check local weather reports for warnings of extreme heat or cold temperatures.
For advice on safety and weather conditions for skiing or other outdoor activities you can:
call the Spanish National Tourist Office in London on 020 7317 2028
see the European Avalanche Warning Services
If an accident occurs while mountaineering, canoeing, potholing or climbing, or if you become lost in the mountains and need mountain rescue, call:
112 for the emergency services
062 for the Civil Guard
The Catalonia region has started billing climbers, skiers and other adventurers whose negligent behaviour causes them to need to be rescued.
Altitude sickness may be a risk in some of the higher mountain ranges in Spain, particularly in the regions of Granada, Huesca and Tenerife. More information about altitude sickness is available from the TravelHealthPro website.
Transport risks
Check with your airline or tour operator whether there is any planned strike action which might disrupt your journey.
Taxis
Only use official registered or licensed taxis, or reputable transport companies you recognise. Licensing regulations differ across Spain and in certain cities pre-booking is required.
Passengers caught using unlicensed taxi services are liable for fines of up to 600 Euros. Make sure you book your taxi or airport transfer through a licensed firm.
Road travel
If you are planning to drive in Spain, see information on driving abroad and read the RAC guide.
In 2021 there were 1,508 road deaths in Spain (source: Department for Transport). This equates to 32 road deaths per million population and compares to the UK average of 24 road deaths per million population in 2021.
Licences and permits
To drive a car or a motorcycle over 125cc in Spain you must be 18 years of age or above, and at least 16 years old to ride a motorcycle up to 125cc. You must carry a valid driving licence and ID at all times.
If visiting Spain, you can drive on your full UK driving licence. Provisional licences are not valid for driving in Spain.
If you’re living in Spain, check the Living in Guide for information on requirements for residents.
If you are using UK insurance, always carry your certificate with you in case you are stopped. Check that your UK insurance will cover you to drive in Spain, and for how long. This certificate is generally only valid for a stay of less than 3 months.
Driving a British car abroad
You may need a UK sticker to drive your car outside the UK. In 2021 UK stickers replaced GB stickers. Check the GOV.UK Displaying number plates website for more information on what to do if you are driving outside the UK.
Driving regulations
Motorists drive on the right-hand side of the road in Spain. Driving rules and customs are different from those in the UK.
You must carry 2 red warning triangles which, in the event of an accident or breakdown should be placed in front of and behind the vehicle. They should be at least 50 metres away from the vehicle in each direction. You must have a spare wheel and the tools to change it. If you get out of your vehicle during an accident or breakdown, or while waiting for the arrival of the emergency services, you must wear a reflective vest or you may face a fine.
Spain has strict drink driving laws. Police regularly carry out roadside checks for alcohol and drugs. Penalties include fines, loss of licence and imprisonment.
You can be given an on-the-spot fines from the police for a variety of driving offences including speeding. If you accept the fine and pay within 20 days, it will be reduced by 50%. More information on how to pay is available on the Spanish driving agency website.
Seat belts are compulsory for all passengers in the front and back seats. Children under the age of 12 or under 1.35m in height must use an approved child safety seat and be positioned in the back seat. Children are only permitted to travel in the front seat of the car if the rear seats are already occupied by other children or if the vehicle does not have rear seats. Car hire agencies can provide child seats, so let them know you need one when you reserve the car. Incorrect installation of a child seat or not wearing a seat belt can be considered a serious offence and met with fines.
Motorcyclists (including drivers of mopeds and quads) must wear an approved safety helmet and other protective clothing. Not wearing one is considered a serious offence and can result in a fine.
It is illegal to use a mobile phone when driving, even if you have pulled over to the side of the road. You must be completely away from the road. Using an earpiece is also illegal. Only completely hands-free units are allowed to be used.
Vehicle restrictions
Some cities in Spain have introduced emergency anti-pollution protocols to limit exhaust emissions when air pollution levels are high. When activated, vehicle access is restricted and speed limits are imposed. Follow the instructions of the local authorities.
Some cities, including Madrid and Barcelona, operate permanent low emission zones. See the MadridCentral and Barcelona Ring Roads Low Emission Zone websites for  information.
Extreme weather and natural disasters
Extreme temperatures
Extreme temperatures are currently affecting many areas of Spain. For severe weather warnings and updates, visit the Spanish Meteorological Office (AEMET) and European Meteorological Services website.
For information on how to take care in the heat visit the NHS website or the website of the Spanish Ministry of Health (only available in Spanish).
You should check with your travel provider before traveling and follow the advice of local authorities at all times.
Forest fires
Forest fires occur frequently in Spain (including in the Spanish islands) during the summer months, when temperatures regularly reach over 40ºC. Be aware of your environment when visiting or driving through woodland areas. For information on forest fire risk visit the Spanish Meteorological Office (AEMET).
Causing a forest fire is a criminal offence in Spain, even if unintentional. Make sure cigarette ends are properly extinguished, do not light barbecues and do not leave empty bottles behind. You can be heavily fined for not following the rules against lighting outdoor barbecues in forest areas. Make sure you know the rules if considering a barbeque.
For information on what to do in the event of a forest fire, visit the Civil Protection website (only available in Spanish). Immediately report any fire you see to the emergency services on 112. In the case of wildfires, the situation can change quickly, so you should stay up to date with official advice.
Flooding
Flash flooding can occur, causing travel disruption and damage to property and infrastructure. Check weather warnings from Spain’s meteorological office (AEMET) before travel and follow the advice of the local authorities.
