This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Spain as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Spain to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Spain
For information on entering Spain, see Entry Requirements
Spain declared a State of Emergency (“Estado de Alarma”) on 14 March, which introduces a series of measures including significant restrictions on movement throughout the country in response to the coronavirus outbreak.
Self-isolation on arrival
From 15 May, all new international arrivals entering Spain, including Spanish nationals and residents, will be required to self-isolate in their residence or hotel for a period of 14 days.
During this time, movement will be limited to essential trips to supermarkets or pharmacies and those affected will be required to wear a facemask at all times in public. They should be contactable by authorities and should report any coronavirus symptoms to regional authorities. Cross-border workers, cabin crew, lorry drivers and healthcare workers are exempt from this measure.
The Spanish authorities have confirmed that travellers transiting through Spain are also exempt as long as they travel home directly and do not spend the night in any establishment in Spain. All passengers should carry their passports, proof of onward travel (i.e. ferry or Eurotunnel tickets) and country of residency. You may also find this letter useful should you be required to explain your reason for travel.
De-escalation measures
On April 28, the Spanish government announced a 4-stage de-escalation plan to gradually ease the current confinement and mobility measures over an estimated period of at least 8 weeks.
While no specific dates have been attributed to each phase, it is estimated that each one will last for an initial period of 2 weeks from May 4. Moving from one phase to another will be contingent on the control of the COVID-19 outbreak in Spain and different provinces and regions of Spain may progress at different speeds.
You can consult the specific measures included in each phase of the national plan here and should refer to local authorities for guidance on the specific measures where you are.
Social distancing measures and other safety precautions should be considered at all times. Spanish authorities “highly recommend” the use of face masks for all activities outside the home where social distancing cannot be guaranteed. Face masks on all public transport is obligatory.
Public places and transport
As regions progress through the four-stage de-escalation plan at different speeds, limitations on the use of public places, individual mobility and transport may vary from one region to the next. You should refer to local authorities for guidance on the specific measures where you are.
Public gatherings continue to be banned, most shops other than those selling food or other essential items such as pharmacies are closed, as are many businesses and all schools and universities. All citizens are instructed to remain at home except when going about a limited set of activities or those permitted in the corresponding phase of the de-escalation plan, in particular:
to buy food or other essential items
to return home to their primary residence
to go to hospital or other health centres
to go to work if you are employed in one of the essential services designated by the government see full list here
to exercise outdoors
to carry out caring or similar duties or in case of real need.
Use of face masks
From May 21, the use of face masks will be obligatory to anyone over the age of 6 years old in all public spaces in Spain, where it is not possible to maintain social distancing of 2 metres. Face masks must cover the nose and mouth. Sanctions may be imposed if you do not comply.
Those with respiratory problems or those unable to wear a mask due to other health conditions or disabilities are exempt from this rule. For details, please see here.
While not mandatory, the use of face masks on children between three and five years of age is recommended.
This infographic summarises the key de-escalation measures and the following links provide information (in Spanish) on the specific measures included in Phase 0, Phase 1 and Phase 2.
Urban and inter-regional transport services (i.e. coaches and trains) are operating at reduced levels. Travel to airports by road or rail to leave Spain is still permitted, but travellers may be asked to provide evidence that they are departing Spain (i.e. plane ticket).
Accommodation
The Spanish government has ordered that hotels and short-stay accommodation (such as short-stay campsites or caravan parks) must close by midnight 26 March. These measures do not apply to long-term accommodation, such as long-stay campsites, as long as clients can cater for themselves, in their own spaces (i.e. that clients do not rely on communal facilities).
The Spanish government has published a list of accommodation in each region that will remain open during the State of Emergency. The list may be modified so we advise you to check with the hotels directly.
Whilst this is mainly intended for key workers, the accommodation will also be available for tourists who have been unable to return home. Hotels and other tourist accommodation are expected to re-open (with access restrictions to communal areas) when Phase 1 of the plan is activated.
If you’re currently on holiday in Spain, check with your tour operator or accommodation provider for further information. If you’re travelling and wish to return to the UK, see Return to the UK.
If you cannot travel back to the UK due to ill health or reduced mobility, you may wish to consider looking for longer-term accommodation in Spain until the State of Emergency is lifted. If you need medical treatment, the UK EHIC is still valid for the rest of 2020.
Health
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers and healthcare for UK nationals visiting Spain.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
If you cannot travel back to the UK due to ill health or reduced mobility, you may wish to consider looking for longer-term accommodation in Spain until the State of Emergency is lifted. If you need medical treatment, the UK EHIC is still valid for the rest of 2020.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Spain.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Spain, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
For more information from the Spanish authorities, see the Spanish Ministry of Health website or their official Twitter channel.
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
