The FCDO advises against all but essential travel to:
Spain, including the Balearic Islands but excluding the Canary Islands, based on the current assessment of COVID-19 risks.
Travel is subject to entry restrictions
Spain have announced they will be restricting passenger travel from the UK (by air and sea) from 22 December until 6pm (GMT+1) on 5 January (5pm / GMT in the Canary Islands), with the exception of Spanish nationals and those legally resident in Spain. This includes flights from the UK to the Balearic Islands and Canary Islands. If you were due to travel to Spain please contact your travel operator before departure.
If you are resident in Spain, you should carry your residence document (the green paper EU residence certificate or the new TIE), as well as your valid passport when you travel. We have asked the Spanish authorities to clarify as a matter of urgency what other examples of proof of residency, such as evidence that you have started the registration process, will also be acceptable for entry to Spain whilst these additional COVID-19 travel restrictions are in place.
Additionally, all passengers (excluding children under the age of 6 years old) travelling to Spanish airports from ‘risk’ countries, as determined by the European Centre for Disease Prevention & Control are required to present a negative PCR, TNA or LAMP test taken within no more than 72 hours prior to arrival, in order to enter the country. See Entry requirements for further details.
While TMA and LAMP tests are not currently widely available in the UK, you should refer to testing facilities directly for information on the types of tests available to you, prior to booking an appointment. The UK is currently on the ‘risk’ countries list and passengers arriving from the UK are therefore subject to this requirement.
You should not use the NHS testing service to get a test in order to facilitate your travel to another country. You should arrange to take a private test and should confirm with the testing facility the type of tests available prior to booking an appointment.
You will also be subject to the additional three requirements at the point of entry:
it is mandatory for all passengers travelling by air or sea to Spain to fill out and sign an online Health Control Form 48 hours prior to travel, providing the Spanish Ministry of Health with:
contact information;
details of any known history of exposure to COVID-19; and
confirmation that you are able to provide evidence (electronically or hardcopy) that you have undertaken a PCR, TMA or LAMP test taken no more than 72 hours prior to arrival and have tested negative for COVID-19.
You can do this on the Spain Travel Health website or downloadable app. On completion, you will be issued a personal and non-transferable QR code which you must show (electronically or hardcopy) at airport health controls on arrival.
temperature check
undergo a visual health assessment
Overland travellers to Spain are exempt from the above mentioned entry requirements and are therefore not currently required to present a PCR or TMA test, or Health Control Form on entry by road or rail.
See Entry requirements for more information before you plan to travel.
Preparing for your return journey to the UK
If you’re returning to the UK from overseas, you will need to:
provide your journey and contact details before you travel
check if you need to self-isolate on your return
If you are returning to the UK from the Canary Islands on or after 4am on 12 December, you will need to self-isolate on your return. You must still self-isolate if returning to the UK from any other part of Spain. Some exemptions apply. Check the latest guidance for England, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales.
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
On 25 October, the Spanish government declared a nationwide State of Emergency with further mobility restrictions and curfews. If you’re planning travel to Spain, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCDO’s guidance on foreign travel insurance.
There is a general threat from terrorism. There may be increased security in place over the festive period, including at Christmas markets and other major events that might attract large crowds. You should remain vigilant and follow the advice of the local authorities.
The UK has left the European Union. The rules on travel to EU countries will stay the same until 31 December 2020. This page will be updated with country-specific information for travellers to Spain as things change. Sign up for email alerts and view the latest updates for UK nationals travelling to and living in Europe.
Terrorists are likely to try to carry out attacks in Spain. See Terrorism
There have been large gatherings of people and demonstrations in some parts of Barcelona and other areas of the Catalonia region in relation to political developments there. Some demonstrations have become violent and may cause disruption to public transport, including access to airports. See Political situation
If you’re living in or moving to Spain, read the Living in Spain guide in addition to this travel advice.
Some cities in Spain operate low emission schemes and apply vehicle restrictions to city centres. See Road travel
There have been several deaths as a result of falls from balconies. Don’t take any unnecessary risks, especially when under the influence of drink or drugs. See Falls from height
Be alert to the existence of street crime. Thieves tend to target money and passports so don’t keep them all in one place. Keep a copy of your passport somewhere safe. See Crime
Temperatures regularly reach over 40ºC in Spain during the summer months. These temperatures bring an increased risk of forest fires. See Forest fires
There have been reports of an increase in holidaymakers being encouraged to submit a claim for personal injury if they have experienced gastric illness during their stay. You can find more information about the action you can take if you have suffered a personal injury on the Citizens Advice website. You should only consider pursuing a complaint or claim if you have genuinely suffered from injury or illness. If you make a false or fraudulent claim, you may face legal proceedings in the UK or Spain.
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.
The Overseas Business Risk service offers information and advice for British companies operating overseas on how to manage political, economic, and business security-related risks.
