Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Malaysia on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Malaysia.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK. This now includes having a COVID test. See the latest list of facilities providing tests in Malaysia is at: http://covid-19.moh.gov.my/fasiliti-kesihatan/hospital-swasta-dan-klinik-swasta-berdaftar-untuk-covid19
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Malaysia
A Movement Control Order, imposing restrictions on movement, is in place across Malaysia. An Enhanced Movement Control Order has been put in place in certain areas of Kuala Lumpur and the surrounding state, Selangor, which imposes even stricter controls, including roadblocks. Check local government websites, social media channels, and media reporting for up to date information.
Inter-state and inter-district travel is not permitted, and you should not travel more than 10km from your place of residence, with the exceptions of emergencies, work in specific industries, and vaccination appointments. All social gatherings, sports, and recreational activities are prohibited, except individual activities such as jogging and cycling. Roadblocks are operating at state boundaries, and may be put in place in other locations. For further clarification, you may refer to the Royal Malaysia Police directory and contact the police department near you.
Internal flights from Kuala Lumpur International Airport (KLIA) and Sultan Abdul Aziz Shah Airport (also known as Subang Airport) are operating as usual, but services could be reduced without notice.
You can get to and from the airport by taxi (only one passenger allowed per taxi), or using the KLIA express train to Sentral station. A bus service does operate from Sentral, but infrequently. You will need police permission to travel to the airport.
You must wear a face mask at airports, on public transport and in taxis.
Accommodation
Hotels are open across Malaysia. Your temperature will be checked on arrival.
Public spaces and services
A Movement Control Order is in place across Malaysia, with strict controls on inter-state and inter-district movement. An Enhanced Movement Control Order is in place in certain areas of Kuala Lumpur and Selangor. You should not travel more than 10km from your place of residence. For further clarification, you may refer to the Royal Malaysian Police directory and contact the police department near you.
You should observe social distancing (1 metre).
You must wear a face mask in crowded public spaces, including on public transport, in shops, markets, tourist destinations, and cinemas.
To enter many facilities, your temperature will be taken, and they will record your personal contact details.
The vast majority of businesses are closed with exceptions for essential goods and services including groceries; restaurants/food outlets are delivery only, with reduced operating hours.
You must carry your passport at all times.
You should follow local news for updates.
If you are found to be in breach of any of the operating procedures in place you may be detained and fined.
On 12 January, HM Yang di-Pertuan Agong announced a State of Emergency in Malaysia in response to the COVID situation and temporary flooding. This is not expected to have any additional impact on British nationals in Malaysia, but the position might change at short notice.
Visa overstays
On 12 April, the Malaysian Immigration Department announced that those who have overstayed on a social visit pass that has expired since 1 January 2020 must leave the country by 21 April 2021. To date we have not received any notification that this deadline has been extended.
If you have not been able to leave the country and have overstayed your social visit pass, the Immigration Department recommends informing the enforcement division at the local immigration office urgently. You will have to provide a flight ticket dated within 30 days of doing so, and pay a fine based on the number of days from 22 April to your departure date. The Immigration Department will then issue the special pass and a ‘Check Out Memo’ (COM). Please note the British High Commission is unable to provide any assistance for you to remain in Malaysia on a social visit pass/expired social visit pass.
The Immigration Department has noted that foreign nationals who do not obtain the special pass and COM can attempt to leave via exit points after 21 April, but they will be blacklisted. You can contact the Immigration Department on +603 8000 8000, by WhatsApp on +601162511223, use the Online Inquiry System, or email pls_g@imi.gov.my.
See our section on financial assistance if you require assistance with funding your flight. When you return to the UK from Malaysia, you should make sure you follow the rules for entering the UK.
Healthcare in Malaysia
The government of Malaysia has stated that they are currently covering all costs related to hospitalisation for COVID-19 at assigned government facilities, regardless of nationality. The Malaysian authorities expect patients to follow the formal reporting process in place.
If you have COVID-19 symptoms, you should call +60388810200, +60388810600 or +60388810700 or email cprc@moh.gov.my. After the consultation, you will be informed of the next steps.
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
If you need medication whilst in country visit a local pharmacy who will be able to give you advice. Pharmacies can be found in shopping centres in Malaysia. If a prescription is required they will give you information about local clinics.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Malaysia
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Malaysia
We will update this page when the Government of Malaysia announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Malaysian national vaccination programme started in February 2021 and is currently using the AstraZeneca, Sinovac, and Pfizer-BioNTech vaccines. The Government of Malaysia has stated that British nationals resident in Malaysia are eligible for vaccination if they choose to join the programme. The Malaysian Prime Minister has announced it will be free of charge. If you are a resident in Malaysia you should contact your local healthcare provider for further advice.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in Malaysia, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
