This page has information on travelling to Malaysia. Check what you must do to return to the UK.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport from the UK, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Malaysia set and enforce entry rules.
All travellers
Entry to Malaysia is prohibited for most British nationals, regardless of vaccination status.
Some exemptions apply, including for: permanent residents, resident pass, My Second Home Programme (MM2H) pass, expatriates of all categories, including professional visit passes as well as dependants pass, spouse to Malaysian nationals (spouse visa) and students and temporary employment passes. You may need to complete an application on the MYTravelPass online platform and show your approval letter / MYTravelPass approval when entering Malaysia. Contact the local Malaysian High Commission or Embassy for more information.
You are not permitted to enter Malaysia as a tourist, except for travel to Langkawi Island under the international tourism bubble, if you are fully vaccinated. See more information below.
If you are permitted to travel to Malaysia, you must follow the testing and quarantine requirements outlined below.
If you’re fully vaccinated
Entry to Malaysia is prohibited for most British nationals, regardless of vaccination status.
If you are permitted to enter Malaysia (see further information above) and are fully vaccinated you must comply with the following testing and quarantine requirements.
You must provide a negative PCR test result taken 2 days before departure, take a PCR test and undergo additional medical screening on arrival, and take a PCR or supervised lateral flow/RTK antigen test at the end of your quarantine period.
You must quarantine for 7 days on arrival in Malaysia, reduced to 5 days if you have received a vaccine booster.
You are required to complete this quarantine in a designated quarantine centre, or, if you have a residence in Malaysia, you may be allowed to quarantine at home under a digital home surveillance order, rather than in a quarantine centre. Follow the instructions in any forms required to return to Malaysia to ascertain if you meet the requirements to do home quarantine.
You will need to meet all costs associated with your quarantine. You will need to download the MySejahtera app.
If you have recently been infected with COVID-19 (11-60 days before departure) you may be exempted from mandatory quarantine. A printed or digital copy of the laboratory test results will be required as evidence of infection. If you were hospitalised due to COVID-19 within 11-60 days before departure, you are also required to submit a fit to travel letter from the hospital.
At least 14 days must have passed since your second dose of a WHO approved vaccine.
If you have an onward domestic flight in peninsular Malaysia, you will undergo quarantine in Kuala Lumpur. Any onward flight to a regional airport will need to be booked at a later date.
If you are required to quarantine, the British High Commission is unable to assist you with not having to do it, regardless of your circumstances.
Proof of vaccination status
Although we understand that the UK’s proof of COVID-19 vaccination status is being accepted in practice, Malaysia has not yet officially confirmed this. We therefore recommend that you contact your nearest Malaysia embassy for advice. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination.
Travellers from ‘high-risk countries’ (including the UK)
If you are arriving from a ‘high-risk country’ with high COVID-19 Omicron variant cases reported, currently including the UK, you will be required to wear a digital tracker throughout your quarantine.
Entry to Langkawi Island if you’re fully vaccinated
You are permitted to enter Langkawi Island as a tourist under the international tourism bubble. Strict requirements are in place to travel to Langkawi. Further information is available from the Ministry of Tourism (MOTAC).
Entry to East Malaysia if you’re fully vaccinated
If you’re travelling to East Malaysia (Sabah or Sarawak) please consult the Malaysian High Commission/Embassy and your airline as regards quarantine procedures and onward travel from Kuala Lumpur to these states. Sabah and Sarawak have additional immigration rules in place. You will only be permitted to enter if you have permanent residence or an employment pass in the relevant state.
If you’re not fully vaccinated
Entry to Malaysia is prohibited for most British nationals, regardless of vaccination status.
If you are permitted to enter Malaysia (see further information above) and are not fully vaccinated you must comply with the following testing and quarantine requirements.
You must provide a negative PCR test result taken 2 days before departure, take a PCR test and undergo additional medical screening on arrival, and take a PCR or supervised lateral flow/RTK antigen test at the end of your quarantine period.
You must quarantine in a designated quarantine centre for 10 days. You will need to meet all costs associated with your quarantine. You will need to download the MySejahtera app.
If you were hospitalised due to COVID-19 within 11-60 days before departure, you are also required to submit a fit to travel letter from the hospital.
If you have an onward domestic flight in peninsular Malaysia, you will undergo quarantine in Kuala Lumpur. Any onward flight to a regional airport will need to be booked at a later date.
If you are required to quarantine, the British High Commission is unable to assist you with not having to do it, regardless of your circumstances.
Travellers from ‘high-risk countries’ (including the UK)
If you are arriving from a ‘high-risk country’ with high COVID-19 Omicron variant cases reported, currently including the UK, you will be required to wear a digital tracker throughout your quarantine.
Entry to Langkawi Island if you’re not fully vaccinated
You are not permitted to enter Langkawi Island as a tourist under the international tourism bubble, which is only available to fully vaccinated travellers.
Entry to East Malaysia if you’re fully vaccinated
If you’re travelling to East Malaysia (Sabah or Sarawak) please consult the Malaysian High Commission/Embassy and your airline as regards quarantine procedures and onward travel from Kuala Lumpur to these states. Sabah and Sarawak have additional immigration rules in place. You will only be permitted to enter if you have permanent residence or an employment pass in the relevant state.
If you’ve had COVID-19 in the past 11 to 60 days
You are still required to undertake all testing requirements.
If you are fully vaccinated you may be exempted from mandatory quarantine. A printed or digital copy of the laboratory test results will be required as evidence of infection.
If you were hospitalised due to COVID-19 within 11-60 days before departure, you are also required to submit a fit to travel letter from the hospital.
If you’re transiting through Malaysia
You can transit (up to 24 hours only) via Kuala Lumpur International Airport (KLIA) as long as you remain airside.
Transit that requires passage through immigration (to collect bags, or to move between the two Kuala Lumpur terminals - KLIA and KLIA2) is not possible, unless you meet the general immigration requirements above.
Exemptions
Entry to Malaysia is prohibited for most British nationals, regardless of vaccination status.
Some exemptions apply, including for: permanent residents, resident pass, My Second Home Programme (MM2H) pass, expatriates of all categories, including professional visit passes as well as dependants pass, spouse to Malaysian nationals (spouse visa) and students and temporary employment passes. You may need to complete an application on the MYTravelPass online platform and show your approval letter / MYTravelPass approval when entering Malaysia. Please contact the local Malaysian High Commission or Embassy for more information.
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
Visas
British nationals do not need a visa to visit Malaysia. You will normally be given permission to stay for 3 months on arrival. Visas for longer stays or for non-tourist purposes must be obtained from the nearest Malaysian diplomatic mission before you travel.
The Malaysian authorities are running a vigorous campaign against illegal immigration. Do not overstay your visa, or violate the terms of entry. Even if you overstay for just a few days, you can be fined, detained, deported to the UK and blacklisted. Flight costs will be the responsibility of the individual.
If you’re travelling between Peninsular Malaysia and East Malaysia (sometimes known as Malaysian Borneo and comprising the states of Sabah and Sarawak) you will need to carry your passport. You must get an entry stamp in East Malaysia at your initial port of entry.
Passport validity
If you are visiting Malaysia, your passport should be valid for 6 months from the date you arrive.
Check with your travel provider to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are accepted for exit from Malaysia. You’re likely to need to get a special exit pass from Malaysian Immigration before leaving and there will be a cost for this. If travelling to another country, other than the UK, you will need to check with the relevant Embassy if a visa is needed in the ETD. If you plan to use an ETD to enter or transit through Malaysia, check entry requirements with the nearest Malaysian Embassy or High Commission before you travel.
Dual nationals
Malaysia doesn’t recognise dual nationality. You can be refused entry if you’re found to be holding a Malaysian passport and one of a different nationality. For those people with dual nationality (not including Malaysian), we advise entering and exiting with the same passport.
Exchange control rules
You can import or export up to 10,000 Malaysian Ringgit without prior approval. There are no limits on the amount of foreign currency you can import or export, but you must declare any amount in excess of US$ 10,000. Penalties include a fine of up to RM 1 million and up to 3 years’ imprisonment. Further information can be found on the Royal Malaysian Customs Department website.
Returning to the UK
Check what you must do to return to the UK
