At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Coronavirus
There is an ongoing outbreak of coronavirus. The virus originated in Wuhan City, Hubei Province but cases have been confirmed in other parts of China and in some countries in the region, including Malaysia. You should comply with any additional screening measures put in place by the Malaysian authorities.
Malaysian owned, and Malaysian based, airlines have suspended some flights between Malaysia and mainland China. If you’re due to travel, keep in touch with your airline as flights in the region may be cancelled at short notice.
If you’re returning to the UK from Malaysia, consult the latest advice from the Department of Health and Social Care on actions you should take if you develop symptoms on your return.
Further advice on coronavirus is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
Health risks
UK health authorities have classified Malaysia as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For more information and advice visit the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
Mosquito-borne diseases like dengue fever occur all year round. There has been an increase in the number of cases of dengue fever, including in Kuala Lumpur. You should take appropriate precautions to avoid being bitten by mosquitoes
The states of Perlis, Kedah, Penang and Sarawak have been declared as rabies infected. You should take precautions to protect yourself if you’re travelling in these areas.
In recent years, between June and October, there has been a greater incidence of haze caused by forest fires in Indonesia. Haze can cause disruption to local travel, regional air travel, and to government and private schools. Monitor the Air Pollutant Index Management System (APIMS) updates and health advisories issued by the Malaysian Department of Environment.
Medical treatment
Government and private hospitals charge for all services; private care is expensive. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 999 or 112 from a mobile and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
