Malaysia is a multicultural, majority Muslim country. You should familiarise yourself with, and respect, local laws and customs. You should respect local cultures, traditions and religions; and take care not to offend, especially during the holy month of Ramadan, other religious festivals or if you intend to visit religious sites. See Travelling during Ramadan
You should also dress modestly, particularly in conservative and rural areas and when visiting places of worship, and government buildings. You may be refused entry if you are not appropriately dressed, including closed shoes. You should check the signs displayed at the entrance.
If you are a Muslim you may be subject to local Shari’a law.
There are severe penalties for all drug offences; this includes amphetamine-type stimulants. Possession incurs a custodial sentence and possible whipping.
You could be asked to take a urine test on arrival in Malaysia if you are suspected of having used drugs before your visit. Urine tests can also be taken when individuals are detained following raids on bars and nightclubs. If the test is positive, you could be detained, charged and/or deported and blacklisted.
Importing unlicensed firearms and ammunition into Malaysia is prohibited and can carry the death penalty. This includes spent ammunition and souvenirs from war museums. You should not bring any replica weapons, firearms or ammunition into Malaysia. You may be detained and charged.
Homosexual acts are illegal in Malaysia and punishable under federal law. You should avoid any behaviour which could attract unwanted attention, including public displays of affection. Openly gay and lesbian support groups exist. See our information and advice page for the LGBT community before you travel.
Travellers with limited mobility
There are many interesting places in Malaysia that are accessible to all people. But wheelchair access is often limited due to uneven paving, street furniture and a lack of lifts, ramps, etc. This includes buses, public transit systems, and many taxis have limited storage space for wheelchairs. See our general information on planning a safe trip for disabled travellers.
