Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

There remain commercial options to leave Malaysia.
If you live in the UK and are currently travelling in Malaysia, you are strongly advised to return home now. Don’t run the risk of getting stranded.
UK special charter flights will only operate for priority countries where commercial flights are not possible. You should not assume that these flights will become available in countries where commercial routes are operating. Please do not contact the contracted travel management company if no flight is advertised here.
Flights
Malaysia Airlines and Qatar Airways are currently operating some scheduled flights from Kuala Lumpur to the UK. Malaysia Airlines plans to stop flights to London after flight MH002 on 27 April 2020. Flights will not resume until 1 June 2020 at the earliest. Please be aware that flight schedules may be curtailed further at short notice.
If you do not have any onward travel booked, you should urgently look to do so by contacting the following:
Malaysia Airlines 24/7 phone number (in Malaysia) 1 300 88 3000, (from outside Malaysia) +603 7843 3000
Qatar Airways on +974 4023 0000 or +974 4023 0090
British Airways plans to resume daily flights from Kuala Lumpur on 2 May 2020. However, this date may be delayed if the Movement Control Order or quarantine restrictions are extended.
British Airways on +60 3 7712 4747 (9am-6pm in Malaysia) or +44 191 490 7901 (24 hours).
Note that airlines are changing their schedules at short notice, so if you live in the UK you are strongly advised to return on the earliest possible flight.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Travelling to the airport
If you are currently in the Kuala Lumpur area, you can get to the airport by taxi. The KLIA express train from Sentral station is not currently operating. A bus service does operate from Sentral, but infrequently. You should be prepared to show your passport and airline ticket at each police checkpoint. Please ensure you set aside sufficient time for your journey, as there can be long queues at each checkpoint. Taxis are not permitted to operate from 10pm until 6am, so you may need to get to the airport much earlier than usual. Note that your taxi may want to return home before 10pm, necessitating an even earlier drop off at the airport.
If you are currently in peninsular Malaysia, but outside Kuala Lumpur, there are very limited internal flights operating from various locations to Kuala Lumpur International Airport (KLIA). There are a few flights to Sultan Abdul Aziz Shah Airport (also known as Subang Airport), which is 60km from KLIA, but you will need to travel by taxi between the airports. Flight schedules are being revised regularly, so please do not rely on flights being available in a few days’ time.
Alternatively, you may opt to travel the whole journey to KLIA by taxi. Ferry services are being reduced, so this may not prove to be a viable alternative if you are on one of the islands. If you are travelling inter-state by road to get to KLIA, you will require a written movement permit from the nearest police station. The police will inspect the passport and airline ticket of each traveller in the party, and may check everyone’s health. The police also require a letter from the British High Commission approving your departure. If there are any other nationalities in your party, or you are a dual-national who entered on a non-British passport you will need to request an approval letter from the relevant Embassy/High Commission. The British High Commission will issue the required letter electronically. Please contact us on +60 3 2170 2200. We will require the full names and passport numbers of each British National returning to the UK and an email address. Note that the police travel permit is only required for inter-state travel by road. Travelling from the Kuala Lumpur area to KLIA does cross state boundaries, but the permit is not required in this case. Inter-state air travel does not require a permit.
If you are currently in East Malaysia, there are limited internal Malaysia Airlines flights operating back to peninsular Malaysia. However, you will not be permitted to travel except to transit directly onto an international flight from Kuala Lumpur. You should book your onward ticket to the UK before trying to board the flight from East Malaysia. You will not be permitted to leave the transit area in KLIA between flights.
Transit via Malaysia
If you are currently in another country in the region and travelling through Kuala Lumpur International Airport (KLIA) as part of a route back to the UK, you will be permitted to transit within KLIA.
You will not be able to enter Malaysia to stay in a hotel or travel to any other airport (including KLIA2, the low-cost airline airport) unless you meet the strict immigration criteria.
Residents
If you currently live in Malaysia and are considering travelling to the UK, you should carefully consider your personal circumstances and the fast-moving situation. Remaining in your home is likely to be the best option for many residents. You will not currently be permitted to re-enter Malaysia while the Movement Control Order remains in place, unless you meet the strict immigration criteria. For information on the criteria, see Coronavirus.
Arrival in the UK
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Further information
Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British High Commission Kuala Lumpur on Twitter and Facebook.
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
