!
Warning
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to parts of Malaysia.

This guide also has safety advice for regions of Malaysia.
Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.   
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.   
Terrorism in Malaysia  
Terrorist attacks in Malaysia cannot be ruled out.
Terrorism attacks could be indiscriminate, including in places visited by foreign nationals, such as: 
bars and restaurants
hotels
markets
shopping malls
tourist attractions
places of worship
airports
You should be especially vigilant and maintain a high level of security awareness in crowded places and at large gatherings.
Terrorist kidnap
In Malaysia, there is a threat to foreigners of kidnapping in coastal areas of eastern Sabah from terrorist groups. The threat is particularly high between the towns of Sandakan and Tawau and on islands close to the Sulu Archipelago in the southern Philippines.
The Abu Sayyaf Group (ASG), based in the Philippines, has previously kidnapped foreigners from the east coast of mainland Sabah, the islands and the surrounding waters. The group has murdered several hostages. Some groups operating in the southern Philippines, including factions of ASG, have pledged allegiance to Daesh and are likely to regard westerners as legitimate targets.
British nationals are seen as legitimate targets, including tourists, humanitarian aid workers, journalists and business travellers. If you are kidnapped, the reason for your presence is unlikely to protect you or secure your safe release. 
The long-standing policy of the British government is not to make substantive concessions to hostage takers. The British government considers that paying ransoms and releasing prisoners builds the capability of terrorist groups and finances their activities. This can, in turn, increase the risk of further hostage-taking. The Terrorism Act (2000) makes payments to terrorists illegal. 
Political situation
In response to the current situation in Israel and Palestine, there have been peaceful demonstrations in some Malaysian cities, including outside some western embassies.  
It’s illegal under Malaysian law for foreign nationals to take part in demonstrations or protests.    
Monitor local and international media and avoid all demonstrations. Police can use tear gas and water cannons to control public protests.
Crime
Protecting yourself and your belongings
Bag-snatching is common, particularly in major cities. Thieves on motorbikes can target tourists. They can cut straps or pull off bags carried on the shoulder closest to the road. They have sometimes pulled people to the ground and killed or injured them if they try to hold onto their bags.
To protect yourself from petty crime, avoid carrying valuables and take particular care of your passport while:
walking
in cafes
on aircraft
in airport and railway terminals
at hotels
Credit card and ATM fraud is widespread. Take care when using your card.
Personal security
There have been assaults and robberies, particularly around bars and nightlife areas. Do not open your hotel room door to strangers, especially late at night. This applies particularly to women travelling alone.
Drink spiking
There have been cases of strangers offering tourists a spiked drink, even in reputable bars or restaurants, and then robbing or assaulting them.
Police reports
If you’re a victim of crime, inform the local police and get a police report for insurance purposes.   
Laws and cultural differences
Malaysia is a multicultural, majority Muslim country. Respect local laws, cultures, traditions and religions.
If you’re a Muslim, you may be subject to local Sharia law.
Personal ID
By law you must carry ID. Always carry your passport.   
Dress code
Dress modestly, particularly in conservative and rural areas. You may be refused entry to places of worship or government offices if you do not have your shoulders and knees covered or are not wearing closed shoes. Check the signs displayed at the entrance.
Ramadan
Ramadan is a holy month for Muslims. The dates vary by year and country. In Malaysia, Ramadan will take place in March 2025.
During this time, you should:
check opening hours of shops and restaurants
follow local dress codes – clothing that does not meet local dress codes may cause more offence at this time
be aware of the risks of dehydration and that fasting can cause tiredness, particularly during the later afternoon and early evening
Get more advice when you arrive from your tour guide, hotel or business contacts.
Illegal drugs penalties
Possession, trafficking and manufacture of any illegal drugs are serious offences in Malaysia. This includes cannabis. British nationals have been caught carrying cannabis while transiting through Malaysia.
Airports in Malaysia have security equipment and procedures in place for scanning and detecting illegal substances, including cannabis. This is also used to scan all carry-on and checked-in baggage of transiting passengers.
The Malaysian authorities have a zero-tolerance policy to drug offences. Possessing drugs, even in very small quantities, carries severe penalties, including:  
arrest and detention
a long jail sentence if charged and convicted
a possible whipping
a possible death sentence by hanging for drug trafficking
Legal processes before court hearings can be long and expensive. It can take many months for a case to go to trial and time served ahead of that will not be included as part of the sentence.
Criminal gangs in the UK and elsewhere are known to coerce people into carrying drugs across borders. Do not allow yourself to be persuaded.
It is important to be aware of your rights if you are detained by the police. See our guidance for those detained or imprisoned in Malaysia.
Police often raid venues known to be frequented by foreigners. You may have to take a urine or blood test if there is a reasonable suspicion you have used drugs. You will be arrested if the test is positive.
LGBT+ travellers
Same-sex sexual acts are illegal in Malaysia under federal law. The Malaysian authorities sometimes carry out raids on LGBT+ spaces and events. Showing affection in public could attract negative responses from other members of the public. Openly LGBT+ safe spaces and support groups exist.
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Outdoor activities and adventure tourism
Watersports and scuba diving
If you rent jet skis or any other type of watersports equipment, make sure adequate safety precautions are in place. Only use licensed operators, insist on training before use and make sure you’re covered by your insurance.
Diving school standards are not always as high as in the UK. You should:
check a dive operator’s credentials
make sure safety equipment is available on the boat, particularly oxygen
ask about safety precautions, including the ability to transfer divers to a hyperbaric chamber
If you have not had any previous diving experience:
ask your dive instructor to explain what cover they offer before signing up
check what to do if something goes wrong, including how to call for help while at sea
The diving sites of HMS Repulse and HMS Prince of Wales, which lie in international waters off Kuantan, have been declared ‘protected places’ under the Protection of Military Remains Act 1986. Only dive there on a ‘look not touch’ basis. Make sure any boat operator you use holds a licence for diving at the wreck site.
See ⁠watersports safety advice from the Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents (ROSPA). 
Transport risks
Road travel
If you are planning to drive in Malaysia, see information on driving abroad.
You’ll need both the 1949 international driving permit (IDP) and your UK driving licence to drive in Malaysia. You cannot buy an IDP outside the UK, so get one before you travel. You must buy a new IDP for each additional year you plan to drive in Malaysia.
If you’re in a road accident, it’s illegal to leave the scene before the police arrive. If a crowd gathers, it may be safer to go directly to the nearest police station instead.
Drivers, particularly motorbike riders, do not always stop at traffic lights or pedestrian crossings.
There have been several fatal bus crashes, particularly on overnight journeys. Choose a reputable operator for your journey.
If you rent a motorbike, it’s illegal not to wear a helmet.
Driving under the influence of alcohol is a serious offence, and the traffic police regularly carry out breath tests. If you are found driving over the legal limit, you may get:
a heavy fine
a prison sentence
deported
Road conditions in East Malaysia are not as good as those in Peninsular Malaysia.
Using taxis
At airports you pay for your taxi with a fixed-price coupon you buy at a counter in the terminal. In other areas, taxis should use a meter.
Sea and river travel
Some passenger boats have sunk due to overloading and poor maintenance. Take care when travelling by passenger ferry or speedboat. Avoid travelling on vessels that are clearly overloaded or in poor condition. Make sure life jackets are available.
Piracy in South-East Asian waters is an ongoing problem. There have been attacks against ships in and around Malaysian waters, particularly in the Strait of Malacca and the waters between Sabah and the southern Philippines. Be vigilant and take appropriate precautions. Reduce opportunities for theft, establish secure areas on board and report all incidents to the coastal and flag state authorities.
Extreme weather and natural disasters
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards. 
Seasonal storms affect Malaysia. The timing of these storms depends on location in the country. Flooding and landslides are common and can cause significant damage to infrastructure. Essential services can be interrupted. For information on local weather, check the Malaysian Meteorological Department.  
Earthquakes can happen in Malaysia but are rare.
