This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Malaysia as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Malaysia to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Malaysia
For information on entering Malaysia, see Entry Requirements
A Movement Control Order is in place, restricting all travel inside Malaysia. This is rigidly enforced by the police.
You are only permitted to leave your accommodation for medical reasons or to go grocery shopping. You can travel a maximum of 10km from your accommodation, but you are expected to use the nearest supermarket/medical facility. To enter many facilities you will be expected to wear a face mask.
You must carry your passport at all times, as it will be inspected by the police as they enforce the Movement Control Order. You must be alone while in public, especially when travelling in a vehicle.
Only essential services are running during the Movement Control Order. Supermarkets, hotels, public transport and taxis fall into this category, though they are operating limited services. Many hotels have closed due to low demand, and some of those that are open require guests to remain in their rooms.
Further controls on travel within Malaysia may be imposed at short notice. If you are visiting Malaysia, you should plan accordingly, taking account of the fast moving situation and your individual circumstances.
Visas
Foreign nationals currently in Malaysia whose visas expire during the Order can return to their country of origin during the period the Order is in place without extending/renewing their visas. They must possess a valid travel document for onward travel.
Alternatively, they can extend or renew their expired visa by contacting the Immigration department within 14 days of the end of the Order. This applies to holders of Short Term Social Visit Pass and Long Term Social Visit Pass such as Temporary Employment Visit Pass, Expatriate Pass, Student Pass, Dependent’s Pass (to holders of Long Term Visit Pass) and Long Term Social Visit Pass (MM2H).
Health
The government of Malaysia has stated that they are currently covering all costs related to hospitalisation for Covid-19 at assigned government facilities, regardless of nationality. The Malaysian authorities expect patients to follow the formal reporting process in place.
If you have Covid-19 symptoms, you should call +60388810200, +60388810600 or +60388810700 or email cprc@moh.gov.my. After the consultation, you will be informed of the next steps.
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Malaysia
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
Include contact details for any local authority information and support.
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
