Coronavirus (COVID-19) cases have been confirmed in Malaysia. The government of Malaysia has introduced a Movement Control Order that restricts the entry of foreign nationals until 1 April 2020. Under the terms of that Order, all foreign nationals are not now able to enter Malaysia except those with diplomatic passports, those who have Permanent Residence or those who are an “expatriate in an essential service”. If you or your dependents have other visas, including working visas or “Malaysia My Second Home” visas, these do not qualify for an exemption and you will not be permitted to enter. The government has published further clarifications setting out some exceptions on immigration, including for foreign national spouses of Malaysian citizens. However, this information has not necessarily been reflected in all guidance and we are aware of reports that airlines are refusing to accept passengers who do not meet the headline requirements in the main Order.
Anyone entering Malaysia is obliged to self-quarantine for 14 days. Anyone entering Sabah directly from overseas, either via land, sea or air, will automatically be sent to quarantine centres for 14 days As of now, there are no restrictions on foreign nationals leaving Malaysia, though you will be subject to the same immigration restrictions if you wish to return while the Order remains in place. The Order is not preventing foreign nationals transiting or transferring within terminals at Kuala Lumpur International Airport (KLIA), but you cannot transfer between KLIA and KLIA2 (the terminal for budget airlines, including Air Asia) unless you meet the general immigration requirements above. We understand that foreign nationals may not travel between East Malaysia (Sabah and Sarawak) and West Malaysia, except to transit directly onto an international flight, but have reports that this is being intermittently enforced. You should confirm any transit arrangements with your airline.
The Malaysian government does not require foreign nationals to leave Malaysia. However, the Movement Control Order requires non-essential businesses to restrict or cease operations. Essential services, including supermarkets and basic amenities are still functioning. Hotels and guesthouses have also been designated as essential services and directed by the Ministry of Tourism that they can accept new bookings from foreign (though not Malaysian) tourists, but many hotels are closing or already closed to new arrivals. Those accommodated in hotels are offered room service only and in some cases are being required to remain in their rooms. Flights could be subject to short-notice cancellations. Some airlines, including British Airways have already stopped operating flights out of Malaysia and more could follow in the coming days. Further controls on travel within Malaysia may be imposed at short notice. Visitors to Malaysia should plan accordingly, taking account of the fast moving situation and your individual circumstances.
If you must travel to Malaysia for essential purposes, check the latest information with your airline and keep up to date with developments, including this travel advice. For information on the Movement Control Order you can contact the hotline of the National Operations Management Centre on +60388882010. See Health
Terrorists are very likely to try to carry out attacks in Malaysia. Attacks could happen anywhere, including in places visited by foreigners. Be vigilant, monitor local media and follow the advice of the local authorities.
In May 2017, the Philippines authorities reported that they had received unsubstantiated but credible information that the terrorist group Abu Sayyaf may be about to conduct kidnaps in the Sulu Sea, including around the islands of the Sulu archipelago (Philippines) and the seas/islands off the east coast of Sabah (Malaysia). Any vessels sailing in this area could be targeted. You should carefully consider travel plans and be especially vigilant at this time.
There is a threat to foreigners of kidnapping and criminality on the eastern coast of Sabah and in particular the islands close to the Sulu Archipelago in the southern Philippines. There has been an increase in kidnapping by groups operating in the southern Philippines, some of whom have the ability to conduct kidnaps on the coast of Sabah. Commercial shipping companies have been advised to adopt heightened vigilance when navigating the Sulu and Celebes Seas. Most maritime incidents occur in the Sulu Sea in the area between Sabah (Malaysia) and Mindanao, the Sulu Islands and Palawan (Philippines). The Regional Co-operation Agreement on Combatting Piracy and Armed Robbery against Ships in Asia (ReCAAP) advise all ships to re-route from the area where possible.
You should take great care in the town of Sandakan and along the coastal area south to Tawau, and in and around Lahad Datu and Semporna. In May 2015, 2 Malaysian nationals were abducted in Sandakan, one of whom was subsequently murdered. Monitor local media and follow the advice of the local authorities. See Terrorism and Local travel - Sabah
UK health authorities have classified Malaysia as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For more information and advice visit the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
Malaysia is a multicultural, majority Muslim country. See Local laws and customs
Around 360,000 British nationals visit Malaysia each year. Most visits are trouble free, but incidents of petty crime, especially bag snatching, can affect visitors. See Crime
You can contact the emergency services by calling 999 (police and ambulance) or 994 (fire).
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission. Consular support is limited in parts of Malaysia where we advise against all but essential travel.
Take out comprehensive travel and medical insurance before you travel.
