Terrorist attacks in Malaysia can’t be ruled out.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Attacks could be indiscriminate, including in places visited by foreigners. Bars and restaurants, hotels, markets, shopping malls hosting major international brand outlets, tourist attractions, places of worship and airports are all potential targets. You should be especially vigilant and maintain a high level of security awareness in crowded places and at large gatherings.
On 28 June 2016, there was a grenade attack at a bar in the town of Puchong, injuring 8 people. Malaysian authorities have confirmed this was a terrorist attack by individuals with links to Daesh (formerly referred to as ISIL).
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. You should remain vigilant at all times.
Kidnap
There is a threat to foreigners of kidnapping in coastal areas of eastern Sabah from terrorist and criminal groups. The threat is particularly high between the towns of Sandakan and Tawau and on islands close to the Sulu Archipelago in the southern Philippines.
The Abu Sayyaf Group (ASG), based in the Philippines, has previously kidnapped foreigners from the east coast of mainland Sabah, the islands and the surrounding waters. A number of hostages have been murdered by the group. Some groups operating in the southern Philippines, including ASG, have pledged allegiance to Daesh and are likely to regard Westerners as legitimate targets. In May 2021, Malaysian authorities arrested eight suspected ASG members who they suspect may have been planning kidnappings in Malaysia.
Commercial shipping companies have been advised to adopt heightened vigilance when navigating the Sulu and Celebes Sea. Most maritime incidents occur in the Sulu Sea in the area between Sabah (Malaysia) and Mindanao, the Sulu Islands and Palawan (Philippines). Boats travelling to and from off-shore islands and dive sites are possible targets. The Malaysian authorities have increased security in the region in response to recent incidents.
The long-standing policy of the British government is not to make substantive concessions to hostage takers. The British government considers that paying ransoms and releasing prisoners builds the capability of terrorist groups and finances their activities. This can, in turn, increase the risk of further hostage taking. The Terrorism Act (2000) makes payments to terrorists illegal.
