Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Kosovo on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
Commercial flights to and from Kosovo are limited and subject to change. Check with your travel company for the latest information.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Kosovo.
Returning to the UK
Travelling from and returning to the UK
If you plan to pass through another country to return to the UK, check the travel advice for the country you’re transiting. If you will pass through a red list country, book your hotel quarantine package before travelling to the UK.
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements. You should check that the test result can be provided in the correct format and language. The Kosovan Ministry of Health has published a list of private testing facilities on their website (only available in Albanian).
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
What to do if you test positive for COVID-19
If you test positive for COVID-19 the Kosovan government requires you to self-isolate for 14 days in private accommodation. You are responsible for your own accommodation. You may be contacted by the authorities if you receive a positive test. Under-18s will also be expected to self-isolate. If you need assistance during your period of self-isolation, the Kosovan government advises that you should contact municipal authorities.
Travel in Kosovo
Movement and activity in Kosovo are currently restricted. There is a 12pm to 5am curfew, with exceptions for emergencies only. Public transport is permitted to operate at half capacity, providing masks are worn. Taxis are allowed to work with up to two passengers.
To use public transport, you will need to show either, a negative RT-PCR test less than 72 hours old, a negative antigen test less than 48 hours old or proof of vaccination. (See ‘Demonstrating your COVID-19 status’)
People are expected to wear masks when entering indoor spaces, including shops, restaurants and medical facilities. When outside, you are obliged to keep your mouth and nose covered, unless walking alone or doing physical exercise such as cycling or jogging.
Public spaces and services
Regardless of the number of persons, nightclubs, festivals, weddings, family parties and other social gatherings are prohibited. Gyms and sports centres are closed. Otherwise, indoor gatherings are permitted up to 30 people, with a physical distance of 1 metres. Outdoor gatherings are permitted up to 50 people, with a physical distance of 1metres.
Cafes, bars and restaurants are permitted to open until 11pm. Venues with outdoor space can run at up to 70% capacity. Indoor areas can run at up to 50% capacity. For entry into indoor venues, you will need to show either, a negative RT-PCR test less than 72 hours old, a negative antigen test less than 48 hours old or proof of vaccination. (See ‘Demonstrating your COVID-19 status’)
Customers are expected to remain seated and to wear masks at all times, except when consuming food and drink.
Essential food shops and pharmacies are open. Businesses face a number of restrictions and may be operating with reduced opening hours and capacity.
Healthcare in Kosovo
For contact details for English speaking doctors, visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Kosovo.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
There is a local Emergency Hotline for people who think they may have coronavirus or are struggling with psychological issues. The number is 038 200 80 800.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Kosovo
Wherever possible British nationals should aim to be vaccinated in the country where they live. We will update this page when the Government of Kosovo announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Kosovan national vaccination programme started in April 2021 and is using the AstraZeneca and Pfizer-BioNTech vaccines. British nationals resident in Kosovo are eligible for vaccination and can book a vaccination appointment by visiting their local primary healthcare provider.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in Kosovo, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
