This page has information on travelling to Kosovo.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport from the UK, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Kosovo set and enforce entry rules. If you’re unsure how Kosovo’s entry requirements apply to you, contact its UK embassy, high commission or consulate.
All travellers
You do not need a visa to enter or travel through Kosovo as a visitor. A 90-day entry stamp will be issued which is renewable for longer stays.
If you’re fully vaccinated
If you’re fully vaccinated, you can enter Kosovo without needing to test or quarantine.
Proof of vaccination status
You must present proof that you have been fully vaccinated to enter Kosovo without needing to test.
Kosovo will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 recovery and vaccination record. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
If you’re not fully vaccinated
If you’re not fully vaccinated, you’ll need to show proof of a negative PCR test (taken no more than 48 hours before entry) when entering Kosovo. See information on getting a test before entry.
See the Ministry of Health website for details of the entry requirements in full.
If you’ve had COVID-19 in the past year
If you’re not fully vaccinated but have tested positive for COVID-19 in the last 90 days you can enter Kosovo. You’ll need to show evidence of a positive PCR test (taken more than 21 days and less than 90 days ago).
You can use the UK COVID Pass to demonstrate proof of COVID-19 recovery when entering Kosovo.
Children and young people
Children aged between 12 and 16 who are not fully vaccinated need to show proof of a negative PCR test (taken no more than 48 hours before entry) when entering Kosovo. See information on getting a test before entry.
Children aged 11 and under do not need to take a test or be fully vaccinated to enter Kosovo.
If you’re transiting through Kosovo
Transiting is when you pass through one country on the way to your final destination.
Transiting through Kosovo if you are unvaccinated or do not have a valid PCR test is permitted, provided that you remain in Kosovo for no longer than three (3) hours and exit via a different border point from where you entered. You will be asked to sign a declaration confirming this.
If you are transiting through Kosovo via organised transport, i.e. a regular international bus route, the above applies for stays of five (5) hours or less.
Exemptions
HGV drivers
HGV drivers from the UK entering Kosovo do not have to show a negative COVID-19 test, proof of vaccination or proof of recovery and do not have to quarantine, provided that provided that they comply with the protocol for international transport for protection against COVID-19.
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
Passport validity
Your passport must be undamaged and valid for the proposed duration of your stay. No additional period of validity beyond this is required. 
Visas
British nationals don’t need a visa to enter Kosovo. You may be asked to provide documentary evidence giving a reason for your stay. A 90-day entry stamp will be issued which is renewable for longer stays. Since 8 May 2013 citizens of EU member states can enter Kosovo on a photo ID card. A photo ID driving licence does not constitute a valid ID card for cross-border travel and British nationals still need to enter Kosovo with a valid passport. With effect from 1 July, Kosovo introduced a visa regime for the nationalities listed on the Kosovan Ministry of Foreign Affairs website.
Registration
If you’re coming to Kosovo for a short stay (90 days or less), and will be staying in a hotel, hostel or other registered landlord, that business will notify the police of your presence on your behalf. If you plan to stay in a private house (for example, with friends or family) then you must notify the nearest police station of where you’re staying. If you plan to stay in Kosovo for longer than 90 days, you will need to register with the Ministry of Internal Affairs for a Residence Permit.
Kosovo/Serbia Border
The authorities in Serbia don’t consider the designated crossing points from Kosovo to be official ‘international’ border crossing points.
Foreign nationals have been denied entry to Serbia if they have Republic of Kosovo stamps in their passports and the Serbian authorities may not allow you to travel into Serbia if you hold these stamps. We are also aware of isolated incidents where Serbian authorities have cancelled Kosovo stamps in passports of foreign nationals.
You cannot travel directly from Kosovo into Serbia if you don’t have a valid entry stamp from either Belgrade airport or one of the Serbia’s border crossings with Montenegro, Croatia, Hungary, Romania, Bulgaria or North Macedonia; you will be refused entry without an existing valid Serbian entry stamp. You should take a route which transits a third country. For more information please visit the website of the Serbian Ministry for Foreign Affairs.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are accepted for entry, airside transit and exit from Kosovo.
