At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
High levels of air pollution can occur in Kosovo. You can find further information and advice on air quality on the World Health Organization (WHO) website and check air quality levels on the World Air Quality Index Website.
The health system in Kosovo is poorly funded. Hospitals lack specialist equipment and there is a widespread shortage of medicines and other essentials. Many doctors and nurses lack training in modern techniques and practices. A small payment in cash (currently €4) is required for treatment but you should make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 94 from a landline or 194 from a mobile and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
Coronavirus
There is an ongoing global outbreak of coronavirus (COVID-19) and cases have been confirmed in Kosovo. Guidance for British people travelling and living overseas following the outbreak of coronavirus (COVID-19) can be seen at coronavirus travel guidance.
The authorities in Kosovo have introduced a number of strict measures to limit the spread of the virus.
All flights into Kosovo have been cancelled and flights departing are likely to be severely disrupted, if not cancelled.
Keep up to date with information from your tour operator, transport or accommodation provider on the impact on any existing travel plans.
Land borders are closed to entry by non-Kosovo citizens. A number of border crossings with neighbouring countries are closed for passenger traffic, and neighbouring countries have also placed restrictions on international travel. You should check FCO travel advice for the relevant country before attempting to cross a border.
All schools, cafes, bars, restaurants and shopping centres have been closed. Food stores and pharmacies remain open. There are restrictions on large public gatherings. Public transport has been restricted. A number of events in Kosovo in the coming weeks and months have been cancelled.
The authorities in Kosovo have opened an Emergency Hotline for people who think they may have the coronavirus. The number is 038 200 80 800.
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
Other Diseases
Crimean Congo Haemorrhagic Fever is endemic in Kosovo. Most cases occur in the region around Malishevë/o (central Kosovo), but during the summer months other rural areas of Kosovo can be affected.
Mosquito-borne diseases are present, including West Nile virus.
