Coronavirus guidance is being updated.
Read what you can and cannot do

Following measures taken by the authorities in Kosovo, there are very limited commercial options for returning to the UK from Kosovo.
The only commercial means of leaving Kosovo to return to the UK currently available is an Air Albania flight scheduled to depart from Tirana to London at 12:00 (noon) on Monday 18 May.
To purchase a ticket, you must first call Air Albania (contact number +355 4 2246000) to secure a purchasing code. Once you have obtained a code, proceed to the Air Albania booking website: www.airalbania.com.al/en/
If you are currently in Kosovo, and you book a seat on this flight from Tirana, you should email the British Embassy in Pristina (Pristina.Consular@fco.gov.uk) by 16:00 on Thursday 14 May, so we can facilitate your border crossing into Albania to board the flight. You will need to include your full name, passport number and date of birth in your email. There may be a charge for crossing the border, depending on the number of travellers.
This is a commercial flight, which means the ticket price will have to be paid by the traveller. There are currently no plans for repatriation flights from Kosovo
This travel advice will be updated if departure options become available.
What to do
If you cannot leave Kosovo at this time, you should:
follow the advice of local authorities, including local measures to help minimise your risk of exposure to coronavirus
find accommodation that’s suitable for your needs.
keep in regular contact with family and friends at home, so they know you are safe and well
See more information and advice about staying where you are if you cannot return to the UK.
Future travel options
This travel advice will be updated if departure options become available. Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British Embassy on Twitter and Facebook.
Your Journey Home
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Help and support
If you need consular assistance, you can contact the British Embassy in Pristina on +383 (0) 38 254 700 or pristina.consular@fco.gov.uk.
The Embassy cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone. This page will be updated if departure options become available. To get the latest information, sign up for travel advice email alerts.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK.
Further information
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
