!
Warning
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to parts of Kosovo.

This guide also has safety advice for regions of Kosovo.
Terrorism 
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.     
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Kosovo
Terrorists are likely to try to carry out attacks in Kosovo.
Terrorist attacks could be indiscriminate, including in places visited by foreign nationals, and at large public gatherings and cultural events. Terrorists may target religious sites, including churches.
Political situation
The political situation is generally stable, but there is a risk of protests in the northern municipalities of Zvečan, Zubin Potok and Leposavic, and the northern part of the city of Mitrovica. Protests in these areas have at times turned violent.
Find out more about the regions where FCDO advises against all but essential travel.
There are also occasional protests in Pristina. These are usually peaceful, but can lead to some disruption, including to traffic and public transport. Keep up to date with local developments and avoid any large crowds or demonstrations.
Crime
Protecting yourself and your belongings
Pickpockets operate in airports and on public transport. Criminals target people they think may be carrying large amounts of cash. Take precautions to protect yourself from street crime by:
only travelling in pre-booked taxis
not wearing expensive-looking jewellery or watches
avoiding isolated areas especially at night or when walking alone
Bank card fraud
Fraudsters can steal your card details without you noticing. Use ATMs inside banks if possible, and check ATMs on the street for signs of tampering. Keep cards in sight when paying in shops and restaurants. Read more about how to avoid bank card fraud.
Organised crime
Isolated incidents of armed violence and vehicle explosions in major cities are usually linked to organised crime and do not target visitors. However there could be violent incidents in areas visited by foreign nationals.
Vehicle crime
Criminals may target 4-wheel-drive and luxury vehicles – they may rob the passengers or try to take the vehicle. Get advice from your accommodation or car hire company about more secure routes.    
Unexploded landmines and bombs
There is a risk you could encounter landmines or other unexploded weapons when travelling in some remoter parts of Kosovo. See Regional risks.
Laws and cultural differences
Personal ID
Carry your passport with you for identification and keep a copy separately in a safe place.
Illegal drugs and prison sentences
Possession or trafficking of drugs usually carries a long prison sentence.
Using cameras in secure areas
Taking photographs of military or police installations, personnel or vehicles may lead to difficulties with the authorities.
LGBT+ travellers
There are no laws against same-sex relations in Kosovo. However, Kosovo is still a conservative society and the LGBT+ scene is more tolerated than accepted.
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Transport risks
Road travel
If you are planning to drive in Kosovo, see information on driving abroad and read the rules of the road in the RAC’s Kosovo guide. The guide lists driving regulations and other legal requirements you need to be aware of.
You can use a UK photocard driving licence to drive in Kosovo. If you still have a paper driving licence, you may need to update it to a photocard licence or get a 1969 international driving permit (IDP) as well.
Check if you need a UK sticker to drive your car outside the UK. You must carry vehicle registration and ownership documents.
Insurance requirements
You will need a locally valid insurance policy. European green card vehicle insurance is not valid. You should buy local third-party insurance at the border or from the nearest town at the earliest opportunity. Make sure you have enough cash in euros to pay for insurance.
Driving conditions
Road standards vary from fair to poor. Roads are particularly bad in rural areas and after bad weather. There is a risk of landslides and flooding. Avoid travelling at night if possible. The quality of fuel varies.
Border crossings
There are sometimes delays at the border crossings between Kosovo and North Macedonia, Kosovo and Albania, and Kosovo and Serbia. These are common around festive periods and during the summer months. Ensure you have food and water in case of delays.
Car hire
Many Serbian car hire firms will not allow you to drive their vehicles in Kosovo, and vice-versa, due to concerns about the security situation.
There have been some incidents where Serbian-registered hire cars have been targeted in more isolated areas of Kosovo.
Taxis
The condition of taxis and standard of driving vary. Taxis are readily available in Pristina. Registered taxi firms are the safest option and fares are regulated. These usually need to be ordered by phone, although some are introducing local apps. Operators usually speak a reasonable level of English. International ride-hailing apps are not available.
Taxis that approach you for a fare are often unofficial and can overcharge. Look for established taxi companies instead of a personally owned vehicle converted to a taxi.
Extreme weather and natural disasters
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards.
Wildfires
Wildfires are possible in Kosovo, particularly during dry hot periods from April to October. Wildfires are highly dangerous and unpredictable. To avoid starting wildfires:
take care when visiting or driving through countryside
make sure cigarette ends are properly extinguished
do not light fires or barbecues except in designated and marked areas
do not leave any rubbish
If you see a wildfire, call the emergency services on 112. Follow any advice from the police or local authorities.
Earthquakes
Kosovo lies in a seismically active zone, and earth tremors are common. The last significant earthquake, of magnitude 4.5, happened in 2010 around 90km north of Pristina.
The US Federal Emergency Management Agency has advice about what to do before, during and after an earthquake.
Flooding and landslides
Flooding and poor road conditions can be a problem after wet weather. There is a risk of landslides, particularly in hilly and mountainous regions.
Check local news reports as flooding or landslides may cause road blockages.
