This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Kosovo as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
If you cannot leave Kosovo at this time, you should:
follow the advice of local authorities, including local measures to help minimise your risk of exposure to coronavirus
find accommodation that’s suitable for your needs
keep in regular contact with family and friends at home, so they know you are safe and well
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Kosovo to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
See more information and advice about staying where you are if you cannot return to the UK.
Moving around in Kosovo
For information on entering Kosovo, see Entry Requirements
There are a range of local measures to limit the spread of the virus:
all schools, cafes, bars and restaurants have been closed
shops and pharmacies are open but with some restrictions
public transport has been restricted
there are restrictions on public gatherings
a number of events in Kosovo in the coming weeks and months have been cancelled
when outside, you are recommended to keep your mouth and nose covered and maintain a distance of 2m from other people
Kosovo has entered the second phase of a gradual easing of restrictive measures, which will last from 18 May until 1 June. Check the Ministry of Health Facebook page for more details, including in English.
From 18 May to 27 May, people over the age of 16 are allowed outside of their place of residence for two separate 2 hour periods during the day, dependent on the penultimate digit of their ID or Passport number. You can check the times people are permitted to be outside their place of residence on the Ministry of Health Facebook page.
From 28 May, the movement of people outside their place of residence is unrestricted between the hours of 05:00 and 21:00. However, the movement of people outside their place of residence is prohibited overnight between the hours of 21:00 and 05:00.
Health
For contact details for English speaking doctors, visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Kosovo.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Kosovo, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
The authorities in Kosovo have set up an online platform with basic information and advice available in English. There is a local Emergency Hotline for people who think they may have coronavirus or are struggling with psychological issues. The number is 038 200 80 800.
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
