The Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) advises against all but essential travel to:
the municipalities of Zvečan, Zubin Potok and Leposavic
the northern part of the city of Mitrovica. See Northern Kosovo
the remainder of Kosovo based on the current assessment of COVID-19 risks
Travel to Kosovo is subject to entry restrictions
At the end of 2020, Kosovo announced it would restrict travel to/from the UK from 23 December 2020.
If you were due to travel to/from Kosovo, contact your travel operator. Further updates will be published when they are available.
Check our advice on things to consider, and be prepared to stay overseas longer than planned.
See Entry requirements for more information before you plan to travel.
Preparing for your return journey to the UK
If you’re returning to the UK from overseas, you will need to:
provide your journey and contact details before you travel
check if you need to self-isolate on your return
If your return journey to the UK transits another country, you should check whether it is subject to a travel ban or any other additional requirements. If so, contact your travel provider.
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
The government has announced strict temporary measures to control the spread of the virus. If you’re planning travel to Kosovo, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCDO’s guidance on foreign travel insurance.
For information about COVID-19 vaccines, see the Coronavirus page.
There is a general threat from terrorism. There may be increased security in place over the festive period, including at Christmas markets and other major events that might attract large crowds. You should remain vigilant and follow the advice of the local authorities.
Protests have the potential to turn violent, you should take care if you see large crowds gathering during heightened political tensions in the city. Check local media, consult hotel receptions for advice and regularly review information on this site for updates.
There have been violent clashes in the north of Kosovo and incidents involving grenades and vehicle explosions in northern Mitrovica. Be cautious and avoid public gatherings, particularly around the Austerlitz Bridge area which separates Mitrovica north and south.
Terrorists are very likely to try to carry out attacks in Kosovo. Attacks could be indiscriminate, including in places visited by foreigners, large public gatherings and cultural events. Terrorists may target religious sites, including churches. See Terrorism
High levels of air pollution can occur in Kosovo. See Health
It’s possible to travel from Serbia into Kosovo, and back again. You’ll probably encounter problems entering Serbia from Kosovo if your passport shows you entered Kosovo directly from anywhere else other than Serbia. If tensions rise in the north it’s better to avoid border crossing Gates 1 and 31 (Leposavic and Zubin Potok). See Northern Kosovo
Residual landmines and other unexploded ordnance remain in Kosovo, although all roads and tracks have been cleared. See Local travel
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission. Consular support is limited in parts of Kosovo where the FCDO has existing advice against all but essential travel (see above).
