Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for the BES islands on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in the BES islands.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK. You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements. Contact the local health authorities to receive information on getting tested for travel purposes.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Public spaces and services
The governments of the BES islands have put measures in place in response to the coronavirus pandemic. Please see the below websites for the latest information:
Bonaire: see the crisis website of the Government of Bonaire
St Eustatius: see the website of the Government of St. Eustatius
Saba: see the website of the Government of Saba
Healthcare in the BES islands
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in BES Islands
Wherever possible British nationals should aim to be vaccinated in the country where they live. As further information is available about the national vaccination programme, this page will be updated. Sign up to get email notifications.
Vaccinations on the islands started in February 2021 with all residents of the BES islands eligible to get a vaccine. On Saba and St. Eustatius, the aim is to vaccinate everyone aged 18 and over in one round. On these two islands, you need to register to receive the vaccine. Find more information on the website of the Government of St. Eustatius. For Saba, you can call the COVID-19 Vaccine Info Line at (+599) 416 5373. On Bonaire, priority will be given to healthcare workers and everyone aged 60 and over. Subsequently, those aged between 18 and 60 will be invited. Bonaire will issue invitations to make an appointment for vaccination by announcements on the radio, TV, in the newspaper and on social media. For more information visit the website of the Government of Bonaire.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
