This page has information on travelling to Caribbean Netherlands (Bonaire, Saba, and St Eustatius). Check what you must do to return to the UK.
This page has information on travelling to Caribbean Netherlands (Bonaire, Saba, and St Eustatius). Check what you must do to return to the UK.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport from the UK, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Caribbean Netherlands set and enforce entry rules.
All travellers
Bonaire
All travellers should complete and submit the health declaration form, within 24 to 12 hours before departure.
St Eustatius
All travellers should apply for entry via the EHAS form.
Saba
Travellers to Saba must apply for entry via the EHAS form. More information can be found on the website of the government of Saba.
If you’re fully vaccinated
Entry to Bonaire if you’re fully vaccinated
If you are fully vaccinated and traveling from St Eustatius or Saba, you do not need to do a COVID-19 test
If you are fully vaccinated and traveling from Curacao, St Maarten, or Aruba, you do not need to do a COVID-19 test
If you are fully vaccinated and traveling internationally to Bonaire, you need to take an antigen test within 24 hours before departure or a PCR test within 48 hours before departure
Find out if you qualify as fully vaccinated in Bonaire on the website of the government from Bonaire.
Entry to St Eustatius if you’re fully vaccinated
Fully vaccinated travellers of 10 years and over need to present a negative antigen test result, taken no more than 24 hours before departure.
Fully vaccinated travellers do not need to quarantine.
Information is available on the website of the government of St. Eustatius.
Entry to Saba if you’re fully vaccinated
Pre-departure:
All travellers aged 11 years and above must present a pre-departure negative test result; either a PCR test of not more than 72 hours old before arrival or an Antigen test not more than 48 hours old before arrival.
Children below the age of 11 are exempt from pre-departure tests, as are day travellers (staying only one day at the island).
After arrival:
All travellers, including children aged 2 years and above must take a test on day 2 and day 5 after their arrival, free of charge. In addition, children between 2 and 10 years old must take a nasal antigen test upon arrival.
Further information, including where to get tested in Saba, is available on the website of the government of Saba.
Proof of vaccination status
Find out if you qualify as fully vaccinated in Bonaire on the website of the government from Bonaire.
Find out if you qualify as fully vaccinated in St Eustatius on the website of the government of St Eustatius.
Proof of vaccination is not needed to enter Saba.
Residents of Bonaire, St Eustatius and Saba
The entry requirements above apply to fully vaccinated Bonaire residents.
St Eustatius residents travelling for one day (24 hours maximum) to and from St. Maarten are not subjected to a pre-entry test.
Saba residents leaving the island for two nights or less are not required to take a pre-departure test.
If you’re not fully vaccinated
Entry to Bonaire if you’re not fully vaccinated
If you’re not fully vaccinated, and traveling from St Eustatius or Saba you do not need to show a negative COVID-19 test when entering Bonaire
If you’re not fully vaccinated, and traveling from Curaçao, Aruba, or St Maarten, you’ll need to show proof of a negative antigen test (taken no more than 24 hours before entry) or a negative PCR test (taken no more than 48 hours before entry) when entering Bonaire
If you’re not fully vaccinated and traveling internationally, you’ll need to show proof of a negative PCR test (taken no more than 48 hours before entry) when entering Bonaire. See information on getting a test before entry.
Entry to St Eustatius if you’re not fully vaccinated
If you’re not fully vaccinated you need to present a negative PCR test result taken not more than 48 hours before departure. In addition, you will have to go into mandatory quarantine for 7 days with an exit test on day 7. The quarantine applies to travellers of all ages. The test does not apply to travellers aged 10 years and under.
If parents and guardians travel with unvaccinated children of 5 to 17 years, they must go into quarantine for 5 days with their children, even if they are vaccinated.
See the website of the government of St Eustatius for more information.
Entry to Saba if you’re not fully vaccinated
The same rules apply as for fully vaccinated travellers.
If you’ve had COVID-19 in the past year
Bonaire
If you’re fully vaccinated: you are free to enter Bonaire if you are able to show evidence of the following:
A positive PCR test (taken more than 10 days and less than 180 days ago)
A doctor’s note not older than 48 hours on departure
A positive antigen test
This is conditional on you not having COVID-19 symptoms
If you have a positive antigen test 24 hours before arrival and did have COVID-19 in the last 10 days, you are not free to enter Bonaire.
If you’re not fully vaccinated and have tested positive for COVID-19 in the last 180 days, you might be able enter Bonaire:
If you were infected 8 weeks or more ago and have proof of a negative PCR test 48 hours before departure, you are free to enter Bonaire
If you were infected less than 8 weeks ago
You’ll need to show evidence of a positive PCR test (taken more than 10 days ago and less than 180 days ago). You will not need to take an additional COVID-19 test.
All details are available on the website of the government of Bonaire.
St Eustatius
Unvaccinated or non-fully vaccinated travellers must follow the entry requirements as laid out under ‘If you’re not fully vaccinated’, regardless of their recovery status.
Saba
Travellers with a recent history of COVID-19 can enter with a positive test result not older than 8 weeks and/or a doctor’s letter confirming their infection in the last 8 weeks. The proof should state the date the person tested positive and the type of test they had. In addition, they will have to provide a negative antigen test not older than 48 hours before arrival.
Children and young people
Bonaire
Children aged 11 and under do not need to show proof of vaccination or a negative COVID-19 test to enter Bonaire.
St Eustatius
Children aged 11 and under do not need to show a test result.
Children aged 5 and under do not need to go into mandatory quarantine, unless their parents/guardians are not fully vaccinated.
Unvaccinated children between 5 to 17 years must quarantine and their parents or guardians travelling with them are required to go in quarantine as well, even if they are fully vaccinated.
Saba
Children aged 1 year and under are exempt from all testing requirements.
Children aged 2 to 10 years do not require a pre-departure test, but they do require a test on arrival and on day 2 and 5.
Children aged 11 and above are required to take a pre-departure test and a test on day 2 and day 5.
If you’re transiting through Bonaire, St Eustatius and Saba
Bonaire
There are no separate rules for transiting passengers.
St Eustatius
Rules for transiting passengers are not specified. Contact the local authorities for more information: info.covid19@statiagov.com or call +599 3182796.
Saba
If you are visiting Saba for 1 day, you do not need to meet testing requirements. You do need to apply for entry via the EHAS form.
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
Check with your travel provider to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Passport validity
If you are visiting Caribbean Netherlands, your passport should be valid for 6 months from the date you arrive.
Immigration is handled on an island to island basis so your passport is needed when travelling from one island to another.
Visas
You don’t need a visa for stays of up to 3 months. For further information about entry requirements, contact the Embassy of the Kingdom of the Netherlands.
Further information on visa requirements can be found at the Netherlands and You website.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are accepted for entry, airside transit and exit from the BES Islands.
Returning to the UK
Check what you must do to return to the UK.
