

Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. You should remain vigilant at all times.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Bonaire, St Eustatius and Saba
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Bonaire, St Eustatius and Saba, attacks cannot be ruled out.
Crime
Protecting your belongings
Petty theft and street crime happen. Take precautions such as:
avoiding isolated areas, including beaches, after dark
keeping valuables secure and out of sight
being aware of bag snatchers
Drug smuggling
Drug smugglers use Bonaire, St Eustatius and Saba to smuggle illegal drugs from South America to Europe and North America. Never leave bags unattended and do not discuss or agree to carry a package for anyone.
Dutch authorities generally screen all baggage and passengers from Bonaire, St Eustatius and Saba.
Laws and cultural differences
Local laws are similar to Dutch laws.
Personal ID
You must always carry your ID. Take a copy of your passport with you and leave the original in a safe place.
Transport risks
Road travel
If you’re planning on driving in Bonaire, St Eustatius and Saba, see information on driving abroad.
You can use a UK photocard driving licence to drive in Bonaire, St Eustatius or Saba. If you still have a paper driving licence, you may need to update it to a photocard licence or get the correct version of the international driving permit as well.
Hire car companies often have stricter requirements for their customers, such as a year of driving experience and a higher minimum age.
Taxis
Check that a taxi is registered and negotiate the price before taking the ride. Most taxis do not have meters.
Extreme weather and natural disasters
Hurricanes
The hurricane season in the Caribbean normally runs from June to November.
Most hurricanes pass well to the north of Bonaire, which has no record of a recent major hurricane. There are occasional tropical storms.
St Eustatius and Saba, and many other islands in the northern and eastern Caribbean, have experienced severe hurricanes. Monitor local and international weather updates from:
Meteorological Department Curaçao (covering all islands in the Kingdom of the Netherlands)
US National Hurricane Center
Follow the advice of the local authorities.
See extreme weather and natural hazards for information about how to prepare, and how to react if there is a warning. 
