The FCDO advises against all but essential travel to:
the whole of Bonaire/St Eustatius/Saba based on the current assessment of COVID-19 risks.
If you are returning to the UK from Bonaire/St Eustatius/Saba on or after 4am on 16 January, you will need to self-isolate on your return. Check the latest guidance for England, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales.
Travel to Bonaire/St Eustatius/Saba is subject to entry restrictions
The borders of Bonaire and Saba are currently not open to British Nationals for non-essential travel. If you are travelling to St Eustatius, please note that travellers from the UK must stay in mandatory quarantine for 14 days on arrival.
See Entry requirements for more information before you plan to travel.
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
If you’re planning travel to the BES islands, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCDO’s guidance on foreign travel insurance.
The Venezuelan authorities have closed the borders with Aruba, Bonaire and Curaçao. There is currently no air or sea traffic between Bonaire and Venezuela. If you’re planning to travel on these routes, contact your tour operator for further advice.
The hurricane season in the Caribbean normally runs from June to November. You should monitor local and international weather updates from the US National Hurricane Centre and follow the advice of local authorities, including any evacuation orders. See Natural disasters
Bonaire, St Eustatius and Saba (the BES Islands) are used as a drug passageway from South America to Europe and North America. Don’t leave bags unattended or agree to carry a package for anyone. See Crime
UK health authorities have classified the BES Islands as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For more information and advice, visit the website of the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in the BES Islands, attacks can’t be ruled out. See Terrorism
Consular support may be limited in Bonaire, St Eustatius and Saba. However, the British Consulate General Amsterdam in the Netherlands can provide consular support to British nationals.
If you need to contact the emergency services, call 911 (police), 911 or 913 (ambulance), 911 or 912 (fire) or 913 (Coastguard).
