Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Armenia on the TravelHealthPro website.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
Commercial flights to and from Armenia remain limited. Check with your travel company for the latest information.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Armenia.
Returning to the UK
Travelling from and returning to the UK
Check what you must do to travel abroad and return to England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
If you plan to pass through another country to return to the UK, check the travel advice for the country you’re transiting. If you will pass through a red list country, book your hotel quarantine package before travelling to the UK.
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Armenia
You must wear a facemask in all public or private transport, and in all public spaces. Breaches of mask-wearing protocols are subject to a 10,000AMD fine.
You should follow the advice of the Armenian authorities on permitted activities.
Accommodation
Hotels and private rental accommodations are able to operate in Armenia during the pandemic, though several hotels remain closed from the earlier suspension of international tourism. You should check with accommodation providers before travel. Hotels are subject to government protocols on social distancing and the wearing of facemasks.
Public places and services
Shops, restaurants/cafes and manufacturing industries are currently able to operate in Armenia, with restrictions governing social distancing and the wearing of facemasks. Schools and universities have now reopened.
Health
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Armenia
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Armenia
We will update this page when the Government of Armenia announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Armenian national vaccination programme started in February 2021 and is using the AstraZeneca, Sinovac and Sputnik V vaccines. The Government of Armenia has stated that British nationals resident in Armenia are eligible for vaccination if they choose to join the programme. The Armenian Health authorities are administering vaccines free of charge through an extensive network of polyclinics and mobile vaccination stations. Vaccine availability may fluctuate. Contact a convenient Polyclinic to register interest (a list of medical facilities/practitioners in Armenia is available here). Please note that under current regulations foreign nationals will need to prove they have been in Armenia for at least ten days in order to be eligible for a vaccine.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in Armenia, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
