The information on this page covers the most common types of travel and reflects the UK government’s understanding of the rules currently in place. Unless otherwise stated, this information is for travellers using a full ‘British Citizen’ passport.
The authorities in the country or territory you’re travelling to are responsible for setting and enforcing the rules for entry. If you’re unclear about any aspect of the entry requirements, or you need further reassurance, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
You should also consider checking with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Restrictions in response to coronavirus
Arrivals are subject to self-isolation and/or testing requirements (see following section). Face-masks must be worn in all public spaces.
Testing / screening on arrival
You can now enter Armenia with a negative PCR test certificate issued a maximum of 72 hours prior to arrival or a certificate of complete COVID-19 vaccination with the second dose taken at least 14 days before entering the country. You should not use the NHS PCR testing service to get a test in order to facilitate your travel to another country. You should arrange to take a private test.
If you arrive without a certificate, and have no symptoms, you can pay for a PCR test at Zvartnots airport or the land border crossing from Georgia. You must then isolate until you receive a negative result.
More information on the process for taking a PCR test, and a list of COVID-19 testing laboratories in Armenia, is available on the Zvartnots International Airport website.
Demonstrating your COVID-19 vaccination status
Demonstrating your vaccination status from the UK is not formalised for entry into Armenia, so you should follow alternative advice for entry. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
Entry borders to Armenia
On 12 January 2021, Armenia reopened its land borders with Georgia and Iran to foreign nationals. However, both neighboring countries retain their own strict border controls in response to COVID-19. You should check Georgia and Iran entry/exit requirements before attempting to cross land borders to/from Armenia.
Regular entry requirements
Visas
British Citizen passport holders can stay in Armenia without a visa up to 180 days per year.
Passport validity
Your passport should be valid for a minimum period of six months from the date of entry into Armenia.
Dual nationality
Under Armenian law, children who travel to Armenia on a British passport with parents who enter on an Armenian passport will require an Armenian passport to leave the country. The child may be detained on departure if he/she can’t produce one. For further details, check the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Republic of Armenia website.
Registration
If you intend to stay in Armenia longer than 180 days, you must register with the OVIR (Administration Department for Passports and Visas):
Address: Davtashen, 4th District, 31/2 Building, Yerevan, Armenia 0054
Tel: 00 374 11 361394, 00 374 11 369140
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents are accepted for entry, airside transit and exit from Armenia.
