At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
The reciprocal healthcare agreement between the UK and Armenia terminated on 1 January 2016.
Medical facilities are generally poor, particularly outside Yerevan, and treatment is not recommended for anything other than minor or straightforward ailments. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 103 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
Coronavirus
There is an ongoing outbreak of coronavirus (COVID-19) in China, but cases have been confirmed in other countries, including Armenia.
On 24 February the Armenian authorities announced that the Meghri border crossing with Iran would be closed for two weeks and scheduled flights between Armenia and Iran would be suspended, other than for Armenian and Iranian citizens to be returned to their respective countries. The temporary closure of the Armenia-Iran border has since been extended to 24 March.
With effect from 14 March, the borders between Armenia and Georgia will be closed for the movement of people for 10 days, other than for the return of the citizens of each country to their country of origin. This does not apply to the movement of goods.
On 16 March the Government of Armenia declared a state of emergency until 14 April in response to the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. New measures include severe restrictions on people entering the country. The majority of foreign nationals who have travelled from or via countries with outbreaks of COVID-19 within 14 days of travel will not be allowed to enter Armenia during this period. Foreign nationals are currently allowed to leave Armenia on regular commercial flights, though a number of airlines have suspended routes. Persons arriving from other countries will also be subject to health screening measures on arrival which may include self-isolation, quarantine or hospitalisation. Other emergency measures include a ban on public gatherings of over 20 people during this period.
You should comply with any additional screening measures or restrictions put in place by the authorities and keep up to date with information from your tour operator, transport or accommodation provider on the impact on any existing travel plans.
If you need further information about entry requirements, contact the local immigration authorities or the nearest Armenian Embassy. You should also check with your airline or travel company for the latest information.
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
