Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

There are currently extremely limited commercial options available to return to the UK from Armenia. The UK government is working closely with airlines, the Armenian authorities and other governments to make sure options are available for you to return to the UK as soon as possible.
What to do
If you cannot leave Armenia at this time, you should:
follow the advice of local authorities, including local measures to help minimise your risk of exposure to coronavirus
find accommodation that’s suitable for your needs.
keep in regular contact with family and friends at home, so they know you are safe and well This travel advice will be updated when departure options become available.
See more information and advice about staying where you are if you cannot return to the UK.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Your journey home
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British Embassy on +374 10 264301 ext.4 (this number is available 24/7) or visit the website. For any emergencies please also send an email to Enquiries.Yerevan@fco.gov.uk To get the latest information, please follow our social media and subscribe to Travel Advice alerts
Further information
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
