!
Warning
FCDO advises against all travel to parts of Armenia.

FCDO advises against travel to parts of Armenia.
You should also read FCDO’s overall travel advice and regional risks.   
Terrorism  
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. You should remain vigilant at all times. 
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad. 
Terrorism in Armenia 
Although there is no recent history of terrorism in Armenia, attacks cannot be ruled out. 
You should be aware of the global risk of indiscriminate terrorist attacks, which could be in public areas including those frequented by expatriates and foreign travellers. 
Political situation 
The dispute over Nagorno-Karabakh remains unresolved. Consular support is not available in the Nagorno-Karabakh region. Although a ceasefire exists, the eastern border between Armenia and Azerbaijan is closed.  
Russian peacekeepers have been deployed to Nagorno-Karabakh, but tensions remain. The border areas between Armenia and Azerbaijan also contain mines and unexploded ordnance. Any foreigners venturing within 5km of these borders are liable to be stopped by the police or the military.
Crime 
Protecting your belongings 
Crime levels are low. But there are occasional incidents of pick pocketing, bag snatching, theft from cars and burglary involving British and other foreign nationals. Although tourists are not generally targeted, there is a risk of being caught up in such events. To help protect your belongings: 
don’t carry your passport, credit card, travel tickets and money together 
leave spare cash, passports and valuables in a safe place. Always carry a copy of your passport with you but separate from other items such as credit cards 
take the same personal safety precautions on the street and when using ATMs as you would in the UK 
take particular care if using an ATM after dark, especially if you are alone. Check no one has followed you after conducting your business. 
Scams 
Never give money or personal information to someone you have never met.
Laws and cultural differences  
Personal ID 
Always carry a photocopy of your passport as ID. 
Illegal drugs and prison sentences 
If you use illegal drugs, you can get fines and a long prison sentence. The penalty for smuggling drugs is a prison sentence of between 4 and 10 years. 
It is illegal to use, possess or trade marijuana, cannabidiol (CBD), or tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) products. You can be prosecuted for having these substances even when they are prescribed for medical purposes. 
Using cameras and binoculars in secure areas 
Do not photograph sites such as military bases, equipment and installations. These are considered sensitive areas and visitors have been detained and questioned for attempting to photograph them. 
LGBT+ travellers 
Same-sex relations have been legal since 2003 but are still viewed with disapproval by many Armenians. LGBT+ people in Armenia tend to be discreet about their sexuality. Local LGBT+ groups occasionally suffer from verbal and physical harassment. Physical contact between members of the same sex, such as holding hands and kissing, are common signs of friendship in Armenian culture, and not necessarily an indicator of sexual orientation. 
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers. 
Unsociable behaviour 
Armenian society does not tolerate unsociable behaviour such as being drunk, particularly during the late evening and through the nighttime. Whilst it is not illegal to be drunk, it is not socially acceptable. British nationals have been detained for drunken behaviour.
Transport risks  
Taxis 
It is not recommended to hail a taxi from the street in order to avoid scams. You can download the GG taxi application on your phone upon your arrival. GG is considered a reputable taxi app service in Armenia. 
Public transport 
Public transport is often overcrowded, particularly in Yerevan. Yerevan buses are modern, but local buses in the regions may be old and poorly maintained.   
The metro in Yerevan is reasonably maintained and is convenient to travel around Yerevan.  
If you travel on the cross-border train service between Armenia and Georgia, secure your valuables, do not leave the compartment unattended, and lock the door from the inside.  
Road travel  
If you are planning to drive in Armenia, see information on driving abroad. The guide lists driving regulations and other legal requirements you need to be aware of. 
You’ll need to have both a 1968 International Driving Permit (IDP) and your UK driving licence to drive in Armenia. You cannot buy an IDP outside the UK, so get one before you travel. You can buy an IDP in person from some UK post offices – find your nearest post office branch that offers this service. 
Road Safety 
The local standard of driving is poor. Be prepared for drivers who drive recklessly and flout traffic laws. Roads are in a poor state, particularly in the coldest months (November to February). If possible avoid driving outside of cities and towns in the dark because of the poor condition of the roads and lack of street lighting.  
If you are walking, be careful when crossing roads and use subways where available. 
Air travel 
The UK Air Safety List (ASL) lists all known airlines in Armenia that do not meet international safety standards and are banned from operating commercial air services to, from, and within the UK. Check the UK Air Safety List when considering which airlines to fly with. The list is maintained by the Department for Transport, based on advice from the UK Civil Aviation Authority. 
The UK has placed sanctions on Aeroflot, Rossiya Airlines and Ural Airlines. It is now illegal under UK law for any British national or British company to do business with these airlines. This includes the purchasing of flight tickets.
Extreme weather and natural disasters 
Earthquakes 
Armenia is in an active earthquake zone. The last serious earthquake was in 1988 in the Lori region in the north. It killed between 25,000 and 50,000 people, injured thousands and left several cities in ruins. 
The US Federal Emergency Management Agency has advice about what to do before, during and after an earthquake. 
