Coronavirus guidance is being updated.
Read what you can and cannot do

This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Armenia as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Armenia to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Armenia
For information on entering Armenia, see Entry Requirements
The Government of Armenia declared a nationwide State of Emergency, initially from 16 March. This has twice been extended and is currently in effect until 13 June.
On 4 May the Government of Armenia lifted a number of the nationwide lockdown restrictions which had been in place since 24 March. Individual shops, outdoor restaurants/cafes and manufacturing industries are now able to operate, with restrictions governing social distancing. Schools, universities, shopping centres and public transport remain closed.
Individuals are no longer required to carry a passport and complete a movement authority form when walking or travelling. You should follow the advice of the Armenian authorities on permitted activities.
The Armenian authorities have also introduced a number of other emergency measures and restrictions, including a ban on public gatherings. You should follow the advice of local authorities.
Health
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Armenia
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Armenia, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
