The Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) advise against all travel:
within 5km of the full eastern border between Armenia and Azerbaijan
along the M16/H26 road between the towns of Ijevan and Noyemberyan
The FCDO advises against all but essential travel to:
the remainder of Armenia based on the current assessment of COVID-19 risks
Travel to Armenia is subject to entry restrictions
You can now enter Armenia with a negative PCR test certificate issued a maximum of 72 hours prior to arrival.
If you arrive without a certificate, and have no symptoms, you can pay for a PCR test at Zvartnots airport or the land border crossing from Georgia. You must then isolate until you receive a negative result.
See Entry requirements for more information before you plan to travel.
Preparing for your return journey to the UK
If you’re returning to the UK from overseas, you will need to:
provide your journey and contact details before you travel
check if you need to self-isolate on your return
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
If you’re planning travel to Armenia, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCDO’s guidance on foreign travel insurance.
Military activity is continuing along the Line of Contact in Nagorno-Karabakh. There has been shelling into Armenia’s Syunik Province. On 4 October, the Azerbaijani government announced that it may attack military installations within Armenia as well as Nagorno-Karabakh. You should avoid areas around military bases and installations.
Armenia declared a nationwide state of emergency on 27 September following widespread military activity along the Line of Contact in Nagorno-Karabakh. Among other restrictions, this prohibits mass gatherings, introduces curbs on the spread of information about the situation from unofficial sources, and provides extra powers for police and other civil authorities to enforce public safety and order.
The border between Armenia and Azerbaijan is closed. Several ceasefire violations along the Line of Contact separating the opposing forces and elsewhere on the inter-state border between Azerbaijan and Armenia have taken place, including in July 2020, resulting in a number of deaths and casualties. See Safety and security and FCDO travel advice for Azerbaijan.
Take extra care near military emplacements and in villages and connecting roads between the main M16/H26 artery and the border to its east. See Local travel
Consular support is not available in the Nagorno-Karabakh region. See Political situation
Although there is no recent history of terrorism in Armenia, attacks can’t be ruled out. See Terrorism
The main alternative route to the M16/H26 between Armenia and Georgia (Yerevan-Vanadzor-Alaverdi-Bagratashen) is closed for maintenance work until further notice. If you’re travelling by road between Yerevan and Tbilisi you should use the M3 route from Yerevan through Tashir on the Georgian border. See Local travel
Protests sometimes take place in central Yerevan and other major cities. These are usually organised by opposition political parties or activist groups highlighting topical social issues. Although protests tend to be peaceful and usually pass off without incident, you should take care, monitor the media and avoid large crowds and demonstrations.
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.
