Coronavirus guidance is being updated.
Read what you can and cannot do

Russia has put measures in place to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
For information on how to return to the UK from Russia, see Return to the UK
Entry and borders
On 30 March, temporary restrictions on entry and exit via Russia’s land borders, including with Belarus, were enforced as part of wider coronavirus-related measures. Duration of these remains unspecified. The restrictions do not apply to certain groups including members of diplomatic missions.
On 18 March the Russian government introduced restrictions on entry into the whole country for almost all foreign citizens. The duration of these restrictions is unspecified. These restrictions do not apply to certain groups including those with permanent residency in Russia and members of diplomatic missions.
On 19 March, the Russian government announced that all arrivals to the country should self-isolate at home for a period of 14 days, regardless of whether they show symptoms. You should comply with any additional screening measures put in place by the authorities.
The Russian Prime Minister also announced that anyone arriving into the airports will be tested for COVID-19 at the airport on arrival.
Visas
Visa extensions of up to 90 days will be granted for those nationals who are in Russia at present but cannot travel back to the UK, regardless of the purpose of entry. However, while the self-quarantine measures imposed by the Moscow City Government from 30 March are in place, the Moscow Migration Service will not be providing services to foreign nationals.
If you need to extend your visa, once these self-quarantine measures are lifted you should go to the nearest migration office of the Russian Ministry of Internal Affairs, or contact your visa facilitation company, if you have one. This applies for both those with valid visas and those with visas which have, or will have, expired by the end of the self-quarantine measures.
Local measures
All Moscow inhabitants must stay at home, except if:
seeking urgent medical assistance
travelling to essential work
visiting the nearest food shop or pharmacy
walking pets within 100m of their property
taking out rubbish
Social distancing of 1.5m is to be followed everywhere except in taxis.
If you show any symptoms of coronavirus, such as respiratory illness or a temperature, you are required to self-isolate even if you haven’t been tested. You will only be permitted to go outside in order to seek medical help. You will need a digital code for this journey if using transport (details below). Any cohabitants must also self-isolate and can only use transport to seek medical help. However, cohabitants can travel by foot for urgent medical care, for essential work, to visit the nearest food shop or pharmacy, to walk pets within 100m of their property and to take out the rubbish.
Travelling on public and private transport
From 15 April Moscow residents, including British nationals, are required to secure a personal digital code to be able to use any sort of public or private transport in order to:
undertake essential employment
go to hospital for medical assistance
undertake up to two private trips per week (e.g. to the shop, dacha or train station).
Details on how to secure these codes can be found on the Moscow City website, by texting 7377 or by calling +7 (495) 777-77-77.
To travel on public transport you must carry either a ‘Troika’ card, ‘Strelka’ card or a one-month unlimited travel pass. You must link this card or pass to your digital code in order for it to work. You can do this when applying for your digital code. Similarly, if traveling by personal transport you must link your vehicle number to your digital code.
A pass is not required when walking, although the general restrictions on movement (details above) must still be observed.
A pass is required to travel to/from Moscow City to Moscow Region and to travel to Moscow from another region.
Law enforcement authorities have put checks in place.
Shops and amenities
From 28 March all restaurants, cafes, bars, canteens/eateries, shops, parks and hairdressers in Moscow were closed. Food shops, pharmacies, medical/rehabilitation services, social services, transport services, banks and insurers will remain open.
Many Russian regions have introduced similar measures.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
