This page has information on travelling to Russia. Check what you must do to return to the UK.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport from the UK, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Russia set and enforce entry rules.
Entry restrictions
On 18 March 2020 the Russian government introduced restrictions on entry into the whole country for almost all foreign citizens. On 30 March 2020, temporary restrictions on entry and exit via Russia’s land borders were enforced. The duration of these remains unspecified.
These restrictions were eased on 16 April 2021 for nationals and permanent residents of certain countries including the UK. They may now travel to Russia by air via authorised 3rd countries. The full list is subject to change and currently includes Albania; Andorra; Argentina; Armenia; Austria; Azerbaijan; Bahamas; Bahrain; Bangladesh; Belgium; Brazil; Bulgaria; China; Columbia; Costa Rica; Croatia; Cuba; Cyprus; Czech Republic; Denmark; Djibouti; Dominican Republic; Egypt; Ethiopia; Finland; France; Germany; Greece; Hungary; Iceland; India; Iran; Iraq; Italy; Japan; Jordan; Kazakhstan; Kenya; Kuwait; Kyrgyzstan; Lebanon; Lichtenstein; Luxemburg; Maldives; Malta; Mauritius; Mexico; Moldova; Mongolia; Morocco; Netherlands; New Zealand; North Macedonia; Norway; Oman; Peru; Portugal; Qatar; Republic of Ireland; Republic of Korea; Republic of Seychelles; Saudi Arabia; Serbia; Singapore; Slovakia; Slovenia; Spain, Sri-Lanka; Sweden; Switzerland; Syria; Tajikistan; Thailand; Tunisia; Turkey; United Arab Emirates; United Kingdom.
Starting from 10 December 2021, entry into Russia is not allowed for any passengers arriving from, or having visited during the last fourteen days, Botswana, Eswatini, Hong Kong, Lesotho, Madagascar, Mozambique, Namibia, South Africa, Tanzania and Zimbabwe.
All travellers
The FCDO advises against all travel to Russia.
All foreign passengers should complete a travel form prior to arriving in Russia. The forms are usually handed out to passengers by cabin crew on arriving flights. The template is available at the Rospotrebnadzor website (only in Russian).
The following requirements apply regardless of vaccination status.
Russian government requires all arriving passengers to carry a negative COVID-19 (PCR) test result dated within 48 hours before arrival in Russia. Airlines may require you to show this on check-in, and airlines may require for your COVID-19 (PCR) test to be taken within 48 hours before arrival in Russia (please check with your airline). If a passenger arrives in Russia without a negative PCR test, they should have the test done within 48 hours from their arrival and self-isolate until they receive a negative PCR test.
Additional requirements apply to foreigners who enter Russia from the Eurasian Economic Union countries (Russia, Armenia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan) and some CIS countries (Azerbaijan, Moldova, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, and Uzbekistan) by air. Passengers arriving from these countries are required to receive a negative PCR COVID-19 test via the “Travelling without COVID-19” app and present the test result on the smartphone upon arrival. This does not apply to transit passengers travelling to Russia through the above countries. From 8 December 2021, they are required to present a certificate for a negative PCR test, with the result being within 48 hours before their arrival in Russia and a proof of travel (tickets and/or boarding passes) for the entire route.
You should check the specific COVID-19 test requirements airlines have in place in advance of your flight. Airlines may refuse boarding if their requirements are not met.
Testing/screening on arrival
From midnight on 28 November 2021 foreign passengers arriving in Russia from China, Israel and the UK will be required to take an express coronavirus test on arrival. No prior arrangements are required. Passengers should follow guidance of the Russian authorities upon landing.
Passengers arriving by air may be temperature-checked and/or randomly selected for additional PCR testing on arrival.
For passengers travelling out of Russia, express COVID-19 tests can be carried out at some airports. In Moscow, express COVID-19 tests are available in Sheremetyevo, Domodedovo and Vnukovo airports. They may need to be booked in advance and pre-paid. In St Petersburg, express COVID tests can be carried out at Pulkovo airport.
A list of certified Russian laboratories is available at the official website of the Russian state regulator Rospotrebnadzor (only in Russian).
Quarantine requirements
From 4 September 2021 the Russian authorities no longer require travellers arriving from the UK to observe a 14 day quarantine period.
Passengers arriving for permanent work purposes including highly Qualified Specialist (HQS) visa holders are no longer required to self-isolate for 14 days on arrival in Russia. From 8 December 2021, they have to present the certificate for a negative PCR test result taken within 48 hours of the time of their arrival. The certificate needs to be in English or Russian.
If you’re fully vaccinated
The entry requirements for Russia apply regardless of vaccination status.
Proof of vaccination status
You do not need to present proof that you have been fully vaccinated to enter Russia.
If you’re not fully vaccinated
The entry requirements for Russia apply regardless of vaccination status.
If you’ve had COVID-19 in the past year
The entry requirements for Russia apply regardless of your COVID-19 recovery status.
Residents of Russia
Residents of Russia may be exempt from the entry restrictions. See Exemptions
Children and young people
Children of all ages need to obtain and present a negative COVID-19 (PCR) test result, dated within 48 hours before arrival in Russia.
If you’re transiting through Russia
Travelling between Russia and Belarus
By air: British nationals flying to Russia from Belarus or to Belarus from Russia are subject to immigration control. If you’re transiting Russia when flying to/from Belarus, please contact the nearest Russian embassy or consulate to check if a transit visa is needed.
By road: There are no legal grounds for foreigners (including British nationals) to cross the land border between Russia and Belarus. If you’re planning on driving to Russia, you’ll need to take an alternative route through a different country.
By rail: If you’re planning on travelling by rail between the two countries, you should contact your train or tour operator when you make your booking to seek their advice. You should also consider contacting your nearest Russian embassy or consulate for advice on the latest situation for rail travellers.
Temporary travel restrictions across Russian land borders, including with Belarus, are in place from 30 March 2020 due to the coronavirus pandemic. Duration of these remains unspecified.
You should make sure you have all the necessary visas for the duration of your travel.
Exemptions
Certain groups may be exempt from the entry restrictions, including, but not limited to:
residents of Russia
family members of foreign nationals, who have residence in Russia
those having Russian citizens as their immediate family
members of diplomatic missions accredited in Russia,
official delegations
highly qualified specialists
those coming for medical treatment and studies
those coming to provide care for gravely ill family members
those attending the funerals of family members
cabin and locomotive crews
You should check the Russian Government Order N635 (only in Russian language) to see if you qualify and consult your airline before travel. The Order N635 explains the approvals and documentation you will need to have before you commence your journey.
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
You should check with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Passport validity
Your passport should be valid for a minimum period of 6 months after the expiry date of your visa.
It’s not possible to enter Russia using a visa in an expired passport, even if carried with a new, valid passport. You will need to either apply for a visa transfer or for a new visa.
Further details are available from the Russian Embassy.
If you’re travelling on a British passport issued since January 2017, you should make sure you’ve signed your passport before you travel. Some British nationals who haven’t signed their new passports have been denied entry into Russia.
Visas
You’ll need to get a visa from the Russian Embassy before you travel. You should check with the Russian Embassy on the processing time and availability of fast track service.
As part of the visa application process, all applicants based in the UK aged 12 or over will need to visit a visa application centre to submit biometric data (scanned fingerprints). These are located in London, Manchester and Edinburgh. The Russian government requires biometric fingerprinting from all foreign nationals, including British nationals, when entering Russia.
From 25 August 2021, Russian Government introduced a simplified application procedure for tourist visas. Visitors can now use a booking with a registered Russian hotel, or confirmation from the registered Russian tourist agency to apply for a single, double or multi-entry tourist visa up to six months. The federal registry is available online (in Russian only). Single entry visas are for the entire period of the hotel booking. Multi-entry tourist visa holders may remain in Russia for up to 90 cumulative days out of each 180 days of visa validity period.
From 1 September 2021, British nationals, who have Russian nationals as their immediate family members, can apply for multi-entry private visas to Russia for up to one year. The visa holders can remain in Russia without restriction for the entire visa validity period. Immediate family members include spouse, parents (adoptive parents), children (adopted children), spouses of children, siblings and step-siblings, grandparents and grandchildren. Applicants will need a notarised hard copy of a letter of invitation from the Russian family member. Family members other than spouses, children and parents applying for a private multi-entry visa over three months will also need to have an HIV test certificate. A British parent who has a child with their Russian partner can also apply for a private visa. The applicant should present a hard copy of the letter of invitation from the Russian parent and the birth certificate of the child.
On receiving your visa you should check the details carefully including the validity dates and passport number to make sure they are correct. Make sure you’re aware of the terms and conditions attached to your visa before you travel. You should adhere to the validity and conditions of your visa while you’re in Russia, as the authorities strictly enforce all visa and immigration laws.
Overstaying your visa may result in fines, court hearings, deportation and a possible ban from re-entry.
Cruise ships
Cruise or ferry passengers can stay in Russia for 72 hours without a visa if they have booked tours through officially licensed companies. You are free to use any authorised travel agency, not just cruise ship tour companies.
Cities where this applies are:
St Petersburg
Kaliningrad
Vladivostok
Sochi
Vyborg
Korsakov (Sakhalin Island)
Novorossiysk
If your passport is lost/stolen while ashore, you need to obtain a police report, travel to the British Embassy in Moscow for a replacement Emergency Travel Document, get an exit visa and pay a fine to leave Russia.
If it is not done within the 72-hour visa free regime, you will be facing a court hearing, fine, deportation and a possible ban from re-entry.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
If your UK passport is lost, stolen or expires while you are in Russia, you will need to get a UK Emergency Travel Document (ETD). ETDs are accepted for entry, landside transit and exit from Russia only if they contain a valid Russian visa. The Russian authorities will only put a visa for Russia in an ETD in limited circumstances. If your UK passport is lost or stolen, and you do not also hold a Russian passport, you will need to obtain a police report from the nearest police station and then apply for an exit visa to leave Russia. Contact a local migration office in Russia to find out if a visa can be issued or seek advice from the British Embassy Moscow or British Consulate General Yekaterinburg. If your UK passport is lost or stolen in a third country, and you need to obtain an ETD to enter Russia, you need to check with the Russian embassy or consulate on the required length of ETD validity and then apply for a Russian visa with them. UK ETDs without a visa are accepted for airside transit only. You should check with your travel company or airline that transit zones will be available at the airports of your planned route.
Immigration cards
You must sign an immigration card every time you arrive in Russia. This will be given to you at passport control. The card is in 2 identical parts. One part will be retained by the Immigration Officer. You should keep the other part safe as your departure from Russia could be delayed. Hotels, hostels or another receiving entity will not accept guests without an immigration card.
Customs
You can import and export foreign currency up to USD 10,000 (or equivalent) without declaring it. And you can export foreign currency up to USD 3,000 (or equivalent) without declaring it.
If you import over USD 10,000 (or equivalent) or certain categories of goods (eg electrical items, jewellery, antiques, valuable musical instruments), you must complete a customs declaration form.
If you wish to import certain advanced electronic items (eg GPS instruments), you must get an operating licence from the Russian authorities before you travel. Check with your nearest Russian embassy or consulate for advice before your departure.
If you complete a declaration, make sure the form is stamped by a customs official at your port of entry, otherwise your foreign currency and non-declared items may be confiscated when you leave Russia and you may be fined.
Keep receipts of any purchases in case you need to present them when you leave Russia.
There are strict regulations covering the export of antiques, artworks (including modern art and posters if they’re particularly rare or valuable) and items of historical significance bought in Russia or imported to Russia from abroad. You’ll need an export permit from the Ministry of Culture to export this type of material and each item must be declared at the point of departure. Don’t attempt to import or export items that require permits without the relevant paperwork as this is a serious offence.
For further information visit the website of the Russian Federal Customs Service.
