At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist are available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Coronavirus
The Russian authorities have introduced a number of precautionary measures in response to the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. You should comply with any additional screening measures put in place by the authorities.
On 5 March, the Mayor of Moscow issued a decree putting in place new measures for those arriving from countries deemed to be at higher risk from coronavirus. The Moscow authorities have recommended that visitors from the following countries should self-isolate for 14 days on arrival in Moscow, irrespective of whether they have symptoms: China, South Korea, Italy, Iran, France, Germany and Spain.
On 16 March, it was reported that the Mayor of Moscow had extended this list to include the UK, US, all EU member States, Ukraine, Belarus and other European countries. Passengers arriving from these countries will be asked on arrival in Moscow to sign a document agreeing to self-isolate at home for a period of 14 days. In a small number of cases foreign visitors have been placed in enforced quarantine if they have been found not to have complied with this requirement. The requirement extends to family members or anyone living with those arriving from these countries.
Russian authorities have also banned entry to foreigners from numerous countries. This applies to air, road or rail travel from China at all crossing points, except for Moscow Sheremetyevo International Airport, to all air travel from South Korea at all crossing points, except for Sheremetyevo airport, to all travel from Italy and Iran at all crossing points for all purposes, including transit. Exceptions for all these countries are made for those with Russian residence permits, air crew members and official delegations.
On 13 March, Russian authorities announced a temporary restriction of passenger flights between Russia and EU member states, Norway and Switzerland beginning at 0:00 am on 16 March Moscow time. The restrictions do not apply to the UK. Exceptions to the restriction are scheduled flights from capitals to Moscow Sheremetyovo airport and some charter flights.
On 16 March, the authorities in Moscow introduced a ban on gatherings in the city of more than 50 people.
Further advice on coronavirus is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
Medication
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines.
You can normally bring prescription and over the counter medication into Russia for personal use. However, if your medication contains narcotic or psychoactive substances (details available on the Rossiyskaya Gazeta website in Russian), you must carry a prescription in your name which has been translated into Russian and then notarised. Notarisation services in the UK are available from a Notary Public.
If you’re unsure whether you need to provide a prescription and notarised translation to bring your medicines into Russia, check with the Russian Embassy before you travel.
Medical treatment
112 is the single number for any emergency service in Russia.
Your European Health Insurance Card (EHIC) is not valid in Russia, and the reciprocal healthcare agreement between the UK and Russia ended on 1 January 2016.
Medical care in most areas of Russia is below Western standards. Hospitals do not accept all cases, and require cash or credit card payments at Western rates in advance of treatment. Disposable IV supplies, syringes and needles are standard practice in urban areas; however if you plan to travel in remote areas, you may wish to bring your own supplies.
Health risks
The UNAIDS Data 2018 Report estimated that around 1 million people in Russia are living with HIV. The prevalence percentage was estimated at around 0.7% of the adult population compared to the prevalence percentage rate in adults in the UK of around 0.2%. You should exercise normal precautions to avoid exposure to HIV/AIDS. Due to uncertainties with the local blood supply, non-essential and elective surgeries are not recommended.
Air quality in Moscow varies and can worsen in certain weather conditions. You should monitor local media and the website for Moscow Emercom (in Russian) for more information.
