Passport checks
Carry your passport with you at all times. A copy will not be sufficient. Police carry out random checks, especially during periods of heightened security. Failure to produce your passport when asked may lead to a detention for up to 48 hours for identity checks or a fine.
Visitor registration
You will need to register with the local authorities if you’re staying anywhere for more than 7 working days. Your hotel will do this automatically. If you’re staying in a rented or private apartment, it is your host’s responsibility to carry this out. However, it is your responsibility to ensure this is done.
You may be subject to routine police checks; failure to present your registration may result in a fine. You will need to produce evidence of the registration at passport control on departure from Russia. You can find more information on the website of the Russian Interior Ministry’s General Administration for Migration Issues (only accessible in Russia, in Russian).
Health examinations
From 29 December 2021, all foreigners staying in Russia for more than 90 days or who are working in Russia or those on highly qualified specialist (HQS) visas are required to undergo regular comprehensive health examinations, including tests for sexually transmitted diseases and chest X-rays. The health examination also relates to family members, including children aged six and over. You will also have to submit fingerprints and other biometric data.
The initial checks need to be completed within 30 days from your arrival in Russia for workers/HQS and 90 days for other categories. The procedure and the contact details for the service providers in Moscow are available at the official website of the Moscow Government (only accessible in Russia, in Russian). Check with your employers and the Ministry of Interior for the latest requirements.
Drugs
Don’t become involved with drugs. You can be prosecuted for possession of even small quantities of drugs, regardless of whether they are ‘hard’ or ‘soft’.
Photography
Photographing any military establishment or site of strategic importance (including airports) is banned. There may not be warning signs in locations where prohibitions are in place. You are likely to be detained for questioning or arrested if you are caught.
You’ll need to get official permission from the Russian aviation authority (in Russian) before using any unmanned aircraft systems (drones) in Russian airspace. You must inform them of the flight route at least 24 hours in advance and keep in regular contact with them before and during the flight. Failure to do so will result in a fine.
LGBT+ travellers
Attitudes towards the LGBT+ community and LGBT+ issues are less tolerant than in the UK, and can vary depending on location. Government officials have made derogatory comments about LGBT+ individuals. Public displays of affection may attract negative attention. The republics of the North Caucasus are particularly intolerant to the LGBT+ community and LGBT+ issues. Since January 2017, credible reports have been received of the arrest, torture and extrajudicial killing of gay men in Chechnya, allegedly conducted by Chechen regional authorities.
In 2021 Russia was ranked 46th out of 49 European countries for LGBT+ rights by ILGA-Europe. There are no laws that exist to protect LGBT+ people from discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation and/or gender identity. There are laws severely limiting the receipt of external funding by LGBT+ and human rights organisations in Russia.
Homosexuality is not illegal in Russia. However, in 2012 Moscow Pride was banned for 100 years. In December 2022 , a new set of laws banning the ‘demonstration of LGBT information, promotion of non-traditional sexual relations and change of gender’ towards children and adults through the internet, films, advertisement, audiovisual services and books (the “gay propaganda” law) entered into force. There have been reports that instances of harassment, threats, and acts of violence towards the LGBT+ community have increased following the introduction of this law. Penalties for foreign nationals may include arrest and detention, fines and/or deportation.
See our information and advice page for the LGBT+ community before you travel.
Religious activities
There are restrictions on certain religious activities, including preaching and distributing religious materials. Following recent legislation, Jehovah’s Witnesses are considered an extremist organisation in Russia and can be subject to significant harassment from the authorities, particularly at places of worship. At least one foreign national has been detained and subsequently imprisoned for being a Jehovah’s Witness, though we are not aware of any British nationals being detained for this reason. Some other minority religious groups in Russia are also subject to similar discrimination, as are organisations like the Scientologists.
IT and Social Media
Recently passed legislation in Russia imposes severe restrictions on the publishing and distribution of information related to the Russian armed forces and any military operations. Publishing or distributing information considered ‘fake’ and/or from non-official Russian government sources may be punishable with fines or prison sentences up to 15 years. This also applies to posting and sharing content on social media.
Russia’s cybersecurity laws are changing. Restrictions have been placed on some social media platforms, such as Meta (Facebook and Instagram), LinkedIn and Telegram, and access to other internet sites can be unreliable or blocked completely. More information is available from the Federal Service for Surveillance of Communications, Information Technology and Mass Media (in Russian).
You can find further advice on the website of the UK’s National Cyber Security Centre.
Restricted areas
Access to certain areas such as military and border zones are restricted. You must get permission from the local authorities before entering these areas. You can find a list online (in Russian the site may not be accessible from outside of Russia).
If you don’t get the necessary permissions you may be arrested, fined or even deported. If you’re in any doubt about whether a tour or excursion will take you into a restricted area, contact your tour operator or the Russian Embassy.
Dual nationality
If you have dual nationality and enter Russia on the passport of your other nationality, the assistance that British Embassy Moscow is able to offer you may be limited.
Russia does not recognise dual nationality for Russian nationals in Russia. If you have dual British and Russian nationality, the Russian authorities will treat you as a Russian national and the consular assistance we are able to provide to you may be very limited. If you are arrested or detained the Russian authorities are unlikely to inform us or to allow us access to you.
On 21 September 2022, Russia declared a “partial” mobilisation of Russian citizens to join the military forces. British nationals holding Russian passports should be aware that they may be in scope for mobilisation or conscription, as the Russian government does not recognise dual nationality for Russian nationals in Russia and treats dual nationals as Russian nationals.
If you have dual British and Russian nationality and travel to Russia to renew your Russian passport, it may take up to 4 months for your new passport to be issued. You won’t be able to leave Russia on your British passport if you entered Russia on your Russian passport, and will therefore have to remain in Russia until your new Russian passport is issued.
Children born overseas and added to their parents’ Russian passports may now have to get their own passport to exit Russia. Check with the Russian Embassy before you travel to ensure you have the necessary paperwork.
