The authorities in the countries bordering Russia set and enforce entry rules. Before you travel, check the foreign travel advice for any countries you plan to travel through. If you need consular assistance contact that country’s British embassy, high commission or consulate. Consider checking with your transport provider or travel company that your passport and other travel documents meet their entry requirements.
Entering the UK
Check what you must do to return to England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
Leaving Russia by air
There are currently no direct flights operating between the UK and Russia.
The UK Air Safety List (ASL) identifies foreign airlines which do not fulfil the necessary international safety standards, and are banned from operating commercial air services to, from, and within the United Kingdom. Its purpose is to help UK travellers to make informed decisions on which air carriers to use when flying overseas. We advise UK nationals travelling overseas to take account of the UK ASL when considering which carriers to fly with. From 8 April 2022, all Russian-certified air carriers were included on the UK ASL. The list is maintained by the Department for Transport, published by the UK Civil Aviation Authority. UK travellers seeking alternative air routes or other means of travel, e.g. road or rail, should consult local travel providers.
If you are in Russia, it is not possible to fly directly to the UK, or via EU countries, and should amend any travel plans accordingly. However, there are limited numbers of commercial airlines operating indirect flights via the Middle East, Serbia and Turkey. Check the latest information with your airline or travel provider.
The full list of countries who have closed their airspace for Russian aircraft has been published by the Russian aviation authorities (available in Russian only. The website may not be supported on all devices).
On 24 February the Russian authorities announced restrictions on domestic flights to a number of airports in southern Russia, with disruption to internal flights to and from Moscow and other cities. Currently Anapa, Belgorod, Bryansk, Voronezh, Gelendzhik, Krasnodar, Kursk, Lipetsk, Rostov-on-don, Simferopol and Elista are affected. Check the latest information with your airline or travel provider. The Russian aviation authorities have published information about the affected airports (in Russian). See Safety and security and Travel in Russia
Travelling by road
See also the road travel section for information about travelling by road in Russia. Land borders are currently exceptionally busy and you should be prepared for a long wait to exit Russia.
Travelling from Russia into Latvia
If you are planning to travel into Latvia, check the travel advice page for Latvia which includes information on entry requirements, including COVID-19 requirements.
See the Latvian Government website for information about crossing the border.
If you are planning to travel by bus, check the section below about international bus routes.
Travelling from Russia into Finland
If you are planning to travel into Finland, check the travel advice page for Finland which includes information on entry requirements, including Covid requirements.
See the Finnish Border Guard website for information about crossing the border. A train service is no longer available when travelling from Russia to Finland.
If you are planning to travel by bus, check the section below about international bus routes.
Travelling from Russia into Estonia
If you are planning to travel into Estonia, check the travel advice page for Estonia which includes information on entry requirements, including Covid requirements.
If you are planning to cross into Estonia by road at the Narva-1 Border crossing point, see the Go Swift Queue Management Service.
The Estonian Police and Border Guard Board website has further information about crossing the border.
If you are planning to travel by bus, check the section below about international bus routes.
Travelling from Russia into Lithuania
If you are planning to travel into Lithuania, check the travel advice page for Lithuania which includes information on entry requirements, including Covid requirements.
If you are planning to cross into Lithuania by road at the Kybartai border crossing point, see the Lithuanian State Border Crossing website.
If you are planning to travel by bus, check the section below about international bus routes.
Travelling from Russia into Norway
If you are planning to travel into Norway, check the travel advice page for Norway which includes information on entry requirements, including Covid requirements.
The Storskog-Borisoglebsk border crossing is approximately three hours’ drive from Murmansk in the north of Norway.
International bus routes
A number of bus companies operate international routes, including those listed below. You should check directly with the companies for availability of buses, timetables and tickets as the situation may change quickly.
Ecolines
This company operates buses to Riga (Latvia), Tallinn (Estonia), Helsinki (Finland), Vilnius (Lithuania)
Departures from:
Moscow, Severnye Vorota bus station, Dybenko Str, 7, bld. 1
Saint Petersburg, Naberezhnaya Obvodnogo Kanala, 36
Contact details:
Moscow Oblast, MKAD, 32 km, TC “Shelkoviy Put”, 1-st floor (suburban electric train, station “Bitsa” [Битца]). Phone: +7495 978 0281; +375 44 504 4286 (only Viber, Telegram, WhatsApp – only chat), email: moskva@ecolines.ru. Office hours: Monday to Sunday, 2pm to 9:30pm
Pskov, Vokzalnaya Str., 26. Phone: +7 8112 735055, email: eco@ecolines.ru. Office hours: Monday to Friday, 11am to 1pm
Saint Petersburg, Naberezhnaya Obvodnogo Kanala, 42. Phone: +7 812 386 7979; +375 44 5044286 (only Viber, Telegram, WhatsApp – only chat), email: eco@ecolines.ru. Office hours: Monday to Sunday, 9am to 9pm
Saint Petersburg, Pod’ezdnoy Pereulok, 3. Phone: +7 812 325 2152; +375 44 5044286 (only Viber, Telegram, WhatsApp - only chat), email: eco@ecolines.ru. Office hours: Monday to Sunday, 9am to 8pm
Baltic Shuttle
Operates buses to Tallinn, Estonia.
Departures from:
St Petersburg: Coach Station: 36, Naberezhnaya Obvodnogo Kanala
Pskov: Departures on Saturdays only at 10:35 from Pskov Coach Station, 21 Vokzalnaya Street
Contact details:
Tallinn: Baltic Shuttle OÜ, Tartu mnt 65-26, 10115 Tallinn, Estonia. Phone Estonia: +372 565-630-56, phone Russia: +7 969 722-18-18, e-mail: info@balticshuttle.ee
St Petersburg: St Peterburg, Ligovsky Prospect, 87 office 607. Phone/fax: +7 (812) 655-50-54 +7 (969) 722-18-18, e-mail: vtallinn@piligrim.com.ru
Lux Express
Operates buses to Tallinn, Helsinki, Vilnius, Minsk, Tartu. It has been reported that Lux Express are no longer providing a service between Russia and Latvia.
Departures from:
St. Petersburg Coach Station, Naberezhnaya Obvodnovo Kanala 36
Contact details:
Customer service office AO ”EUROLINES”. Phone: +7 (812) 424 70 89, address: Mitrofanievskoe Shosse 2-1, St. Petersburg NB St. Petersburg sales office is temporarily closed: buy tickets online
