!
Warning
FCDO advises against all travel to Russia.

Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Russia
Terrorists are very likely to try to carry out attacks in Russia.
Terrorist attacks could be indiscriminate, including in places visited by foreign nationals, such as:
large gatherings, such as concerts
popular tourist sites
seasonal, festive, or religious activities in public places
areas that are not controlled by security, such as open-air events and markets
transportation networks
Terrorist attacks have taken place in Moscow and St Petersburg and other Russian cities in recent years, resulting in large numbers of casualties. Russia’s aviation has also been targeted. 
Examples of recent attacks include:
in March 2024, 145 people were killed in an attack at the Crocus City Concert Hall in Krasnogorsk near Moscow
Additional counter-terrorism procedures and restrictions may still be in place across the country. Stay aware of your surroundings, keep up to date with local media reports and follow the advice of local authorities.
Terrorism in the North Caucasus
Terrorists are active in the North Caucasus. They have carried out a number of attacks mainly in Russia’s Dagestan region.
Security services carry out regular counter-terrorism operations in the North Caucasus and across Russia. These can happen at short notice and may lead to travel restrictions.
Examples of recent attacks include:
in June 2024 at least 20 people were killed after armed men attacked synagogues, churches and police in Dagestan
Security situation in Russia
The Russian invasion of Ukraine continues. There are reports of drone attacks and explosions in areas in western and southern Russia, particularly near the Russian border with Ukraine, Moscow and St Petersburg.  Associated Russian air defence activity may pose a threat to civilian aviation.
Check local media for the latest information. Be vigilant and avoid any political demonstrations or gatherings.  
The situation remains unpredictable and could escalate without warning.
Leaving Russia
If you do not need to be in Russia, the FCDO strongly advises you to consider leaving.
You cannot fly directly from Russia to the UK or through EU countries. There are limited commercial airlines with indirect flights through the Middle East, Serbia and Turkey. Check the latest information with your airline or travel provider.
Land border crossings
Land borders may be busy or closed. Be prepared for a long wait to exit Russia. Officials may question you at the border. During periods of unrest, check the local media for updates before travelling.
Check entry requirements in:
Finland travel advice
Latvia travel advice
Estonia travel advice
Lithuania travel advice
Norway travel advice
These and other European countries have restricted or banned the entry of vehicles registered in Russia. Check entry requirements before driving a vehicle registered in Russia into Europe.
See information on:
Finnish border crossings – the border between Finland and Russia is closed
Latvian border crossings
Estonian border crossings – the Narva-Ivangorod crossing is closed to vehicles but open to pedestrians
Lithuanian border crossings
Staying in Russia
If you decide to stay in Russia, you should:
keep your departure plans under constant review
ensure travel documents are up to date
ensure you have enough money
follow local media
stay alert to security warnings and follow the advice of local authorities
take cover from drone attacks in buildings or underground and avoid windows
sign up to email alerts for Russia travel advice
Read guidance for people affected by a crisis abroad.
Political situation
Russia’s invasion of Ukraine
Russia’s invasion of Ukraine continues. The situation is unpredictable and could escalate without warning. Stay alert and follow the advice of local authorities.  
Russia has heightened security measures in place, which are set by local authorities and differ between regions. They can introduce additional measures at short notice, especially near borders. This could include curfews, restrictions on movement and public gatherings, searches or seizure of private property and increased monitoring of communications.
Military activity in Kursk Oblast
There is military activity in Kursk and Belgorod oblasts. On 10 August, Russian authorities introduced a “counter-terrorist operation” regime in Kursk, Belgorod and Bryansk oblasts. The activity in these oblasts is mainly limited to regions which border Ukraine. However, military activity could spread to other areas. Travel advice for other oblasts could change at short notice. Follow any relevant instructions from local authorities.
Foreign fighters
If you travel to Russia to join the Russian army, or to help others engaged in the war with Ukraine, you could be breaking UK laws. You could be prosecuted when you return to the UK.
Risk of arrest and detention
On 28 December 2024, the Russian Criminal Code was revised, expanding the scope of potential liability for foreigners believed to be acting against Russian interests.
If the Russian authorities suspect you of engaging in or supporting activities against Russian law, even if activities took place outside Russia, you may be:  
deported 
detained
investigated  
prosecuted
Activities could include:  
displaying LGBT+ symbols like the rainbow flag  
expressing support for Ukraine on social media   
making a financial contribution to organisations linked to Ukraine  
helping Russian nationals evade conscription  
If Russian authorities detain you, you could face months or years of imprisonment. Russia has a track record of targeting foreign nationals and holding them in detention as leverage over other countries. FCDO’s ability to assist you in these circumstances is extremely limited.   
If you are a British-Russian dual national, you are at risk of arrest, questioning or detention.
Getting help while in detention
It may take some time for the Russian authorities to tell us of your arrest or detention and to give us permission to visit you. They will control your access to your family during your detention. Conditions in Russian penitentiary institutions are poor.
If you are a British-Russian dual national, we will not be informed of your arrest. The Russian authorities will treat you as a Russian national. They will not allow FCDO consular access to visit you.
Restrictions on publishing and distributing information
Journalists have been arrested for gathering and publishing information.
There are severe restrictions on publishing and distributing information related to the Russian armed forces and any military operations. People charged under these laws face heavy sentences.
If you publish or distribute information considered ‘fake’ or from non-official Russian government sources, you could receive a fine or prison sentence of up to 15 years. This includes posting or sharing content on social media.
International sanctions against Russia
In response to Russia’s invasion, the UK and other governments have placed sanctions on Russia, including on its airlines. This can affect the situation in Russia and anyone travelling there. See more information about Russian sanctions and what this means for British nationals.
International businesses and services have restrictions in place, including Mastercard and Visa, which means you may not be able to access money or other services. Read FCDO’s overall travel advice and entry requirements.
Protests and demonstrations
Since Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, there have been anti-war protests across Russia. Demonstrators have been detained.
Authorised rallies and demonstrations are allowed in cities and towns in Russia. Under Russian law, a single person can constitute a protest and could be subject to repercussions by Russian authorities. Unauthorised demonstrations can become violent, with a strong response from security forces.
Check local media for the latest information, be vigilant and avoid demonstrations or large gatherings that may be considered political. Do not take photographs of or film political activities.
Crime
Protecting your belongings
Be alert to the risk of mugging, pickpocketing and theft in the main tourist areas, around the main railway stations, vehicles and hotel rooms. You should not:
leave your bags unattended
openly carry expensive items or anything that might identify you as a tourist
walk about late at night alone
look after possessions of people you do not know
agree to go to a bar or a club with someone you have just met
Be wary of groups of people begging.
Look after your passport, especially in major transport hubs and busy areas. British nationals have had passports stolen or lost in Moscow airports. Take care when passing through airports, particularly in the baggage collection area and outside the arrivals hall.
Drink spiking
Drink spiking, leading to robbery, violence or abuse, can happen. Victims are often left unconscious outside. This can be life-threatening in winter. Buy your own drinks and always keep them in sight.
Violent crime
Violent criminals do not usually target foreign visitors. However, in St Petersburg gangs have targeted tourists for street crime.
Avoiding unregistered taxis
British nationals travelling in unregistered taxis have been victims of crime. Taxis that look official can be unlicensed. You should:
use a local taxi app to call a registered taxi
ask your hotel to call a taxi or give you the number of a reputable company
agree the fare before getting into the taxi or check that the meter is working
Do not flag down a taxi or share a taxi with strangers.
Dating services scams
Dating services scams have affected British nationals. Never send money to or buy items for anyone you have not met in person.
Money transfer scams
Be wary of sending money through untraceable transfer services. British nationals have lost money when sending it to unknown recipients without checking they’re genuine.
Fake police checks
The police do not need a reason to stop, question or detain you. Criminals posing as police officers have harassed and robbed tourists. If you’re stopped, always insist on seeing identification. Report any harassment or crime to the nearest police office.
Laws and cultural differences
Personal ID
Always carry your passport with you as ID. Police carry out random checks, especially during periods of high security. You could get a fine or be detained for up to 48 hours if you cannot show your passport when asked. Copies are not accepted.
Drugs
You can be prosecuted for possessing even small quantities of any drugs.
Restricted military areas
Access to some areas, such as military and border zones, is restricted. You must get permission from local authorities before entering. If you do not have permission, the authorities may arrest, fine or deport you.
You can find a list of restricted areas online (in Russian, you may not be able access the site from outside of Russia). Check with your tour operator or the Russian Embassy in the UK if you’re unsure whether a tour or excursion will take you into a restricted area.
Taking photos in secure areas
Photography is illegal  at any military, secure or official sites, including airports. There may not be warning signs in locations where photography is banned. You could be detained or arrested if you break the law.
Using drones
Due to current military activities, it is illegal to use drones in some regions. Check restrictions with the local authorities.
You must get permission from the Russian aviation authority (in Russian) before using any unmanned aircraft systems (drones) in Russian airspace. You must tell them the flight route at least 24 hours in advance and keep in regular contact with them before and during the flight. You will get a fine if you do not comply.
Cybersecurity laws
There are increasing restrictions to limit access to content posted on the internet, including social media platforms. Meta (Facebook and Instagram), X and LinkedIn are blocked in Russia. Access to other websites can be unreliable.
More information is available from the Federal Service for Surveillance of Communications, Information Technology and Mass Media (in Russian).
Racial discrimination
Most visitors experience no problems, but racial discrimination can happen in some areas. If you’re of African, Asian or Caribbean descent, you may receive unwanted attention in public places. Take care, particularly when travelling late at night.
LGBT+ travellers
Homosexuality is not illegal in Russia but there are considerable legislative restrictions which target the LGBT+ community. In January 2024 a Russian Supreme Court judgement came into force banning the so-called ‘international LGBT movement’ and designating it as ‘extremist’. ‘LGBT propaganda’ legislation bans people from promoting ‘non-traditional sexual relations’. If charged, foreign citizens could face: 
fines 
up to 15 days in jail
deportation
Attitudes towards the LGBT+ community and LGBT+ issues are less tolerant than in the UK and vary in different locations. Government officials have made derogatory comments to LGBT+ individuals. Same-sex couples showing affection in public may receive negative attention.
There are no laws to protect LGBT+ people from discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation or gender identity.
Recent laws targeting LGBT+ communities include:  
in 2012, Moscow Pride was banned for 100 years  
in 2022, a ban on the ‘demonstration of LGBT information, promotion of non-traditional sexual relations and change of gender’ to children and adults through the internet, films, advertisement, audio visual services and books (the “gay propaganda” law)
In November 2023, the Russian Supreme Court banned the so-called ‘international LGBT movement’, designating it as ‘extremist’. The court provided no definition of ‘international LGBT movement’.
Displaying ‘extremist’ symbols and being a member of and donating money to ‘extremist’ organisations are criminal offences. This decision came in to force in January 2024. It is unclear how the authorities will implement the ruling but there have been reports of persecution for displaying the rainbow flag, considered by the authorities as a ‘symbol of an extremist organisation’.
Harassment, threats and acts of violence towards the LGBT+ community have increased.
The North Caucasus republics are particularly intolerant of the LGBT+ community. There have been reports of the arrest, torture and killing of gay men in Chechnya, allegedly conducted by Chechen regional authorities.
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Surrogacy
Russia has banned surrogacy for all foreign nationals except those married to Russian citizens. Read about surrogacy arrangements in foreign countries.
Religious activities
Some religious activities are restricted, including preaching and distributing religious materials.
Jehovah’s Witnesses are considered an extremist organisation in Russia. They can face harassment from authorities, including detention, particularly at places of worship.
Some other minority religious groups, like Scientologists, also face discrimination.
Transport risks
Road travel
If you’re planning to drive in Russia, see information on driving abroad and check the rules of the road in the RAC’s Russia guide.
You’ll need to have both the 1968 version of the international driving permit (IDP) and your UK driving licence with you in the car. You cannot buy an IDP outside the UK, so get one before you travel.
If you have a residence permit or acquire Russian citizenship, you must get a Russian driving licence within one year. See Living in Russia.
Road safety in Russia is poor and road conditions are unpredictable. Take care when driving, take account of weather conditions and consider avoiding driving at night. Do not drive alone at night or sleep in your vehicle on the side of the road. Do not pick up hitchhikers.
Traffic police often stop drivers for spot checks.
Bringing vehicles into Russia
If you plan to drive into Russia, you must declare your vehicle to the customs authority on entry. You can bring a vehicle into Russia without paying import taxes for up to one year.
Green cards are no longer accepted as proof of car or road insurance. Check insurance requirements before entering.
For questions about bringing a vehicle into Russia, contact the Russian Embassy in the UK.
Rail travel
Railway stations have airport-style security. Many railway services require passengers to show their passports on boarding.
If you are travelling by overnight train, store valuables in the container under the bed or seat. Do not look after luggage for other travellers or let them store it in your compartment.
Do not leave your sleeping compartment empty, as some compartments only have a simple lock on the sliding door. On some trains, there may be an extra security device attached to the fitted handle or lock. There may also be a steel switch at head-height on the door panel which, when pulled down, prevents the closed door from being opened.
Air travel
Air space will close during drone attacks. This has led to frequent and unpredictable delays, diversions and cancellations to flights in and out of airports in European Russia.
There are restrictions on domestic flights to a number of airports in southern Russia, with disruption to internal flights to and from Moscow and other cities. Check the latest information with your airline or travel provider.
Air safety
The UK Air Safety List (ASL) lists all known airlines in Russia that do not meet international safety standards and are banned from operating commercial air services to, from, and within the UK. Check the UK Air Safety List when considering which airlines to fly with. The list is maintained by the Department for Transport, based on advice from the UK Civil Aviation Authority.
Airline and railway sanctions
The UK government has sanctioned:
Aeroflot
Rossiya Airlines
Ural Airlines
Russian Railways
British nationals can buy flight tickets if the journey is starting in, or within, Russia without breaching UK sanctions. See more information from the Office for Financial Sanctions Implementation (PDF).
UK government staff do not travel on banned airlines. If staff need to travel internally, they may use airlines which also fly internationally to countries where international safety standards are maintained or on western manufactured aircraft.
Travellers with limited mobility
Wheelchair access can be limited in some public areas. Facilities for people with limited mobility vary. They can be poor or non-existent in some areas.
See more advice on disability and travelling abroad.
Natural disasters and extreme weather
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards.
Earth tremors
Earth tremors are recorded throughout the year without consequences. The US Federal Emergency Management Agency website has advice about what to do before, during and after an earthquake.
Wild fires
There are areas of wildfires in western and southern Russia.
Arctic travel
Parts of Russia are in the Arctic Circle, including some very remote areas of land and sea. Emergency medical assistance and search and rescue are limited in these areas. See Arctic travel safety advice.
