Coronavirus guidance is being updated.
Read what you can and cannot do

This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Russia as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Russia to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Russia
Local measures
The Federal Government has delegated responsibility for a gradual, phased relaxation of restrictions to the regional authorities. It is therefore possible different restrictions will be in force in different regions. You should follow regional advice.
In Moscow and St Petersburg it is mandatory to wear a face mask and gloves in stores and when travelling by any type of public transport or taxi.
In Moscow, all inhabitants must stay at home, except if:
seeking urgent medical assistance
travelling to essential work
visiting the nearest food shop or pharmacy
walking pets within 100m of their property
taking out rubbish
Social distancing of 1.5m is to be followed everywhere except in taxis.
Travelling on public and private transport
From 15 April Moscow residents, including British nationals, are required to secure a personal digital code to be able to use any sort of public or private transport in order to:
undertake essential employment
go to hospital for medical assistance
undertake up to two private trips per week (e.g. to the shop, dacha or train station).
Details on how to secure these codes can be found on the Moscow City website, by texting 7377 or by calling +7 (495) 777-77-77.
To travel on public transport you must carry either a ‘Troika’ card, ‘Strelka’ card or a one-month unlimited travel pass. You must link this card or pass to your digital code in order for it to work. You can do this when applying for your digital code. Similarly, if traveling by personal transport you must link your vehicle number to your digital code.
A pass is not required when walking, although the general restrictions on movement (details above) must still be observed.
A pass is required to travel to/from Moscow City to Moscow Region and to travel to Moscow from another region.
Law enforcement authorities have put checks in place.
Shops and amenities
From 28 March all restaurants, cafes, bars, canteens/eateries, shops, parks and hairdressers in Moscow were closed. Food shops, pharmacies, medical/rehabilitation services, social services, transport services, banks and insurers will remain open.
Many Russian regions have introduced similar measures, including Saint Petersburg.
For information on entering Russia, see Entry Requirements
Visas
Visa extensions of up to 90 days will be granted if you are in Russia at present but cannot travel back to the UK, regardless of the purpose of entry. All foreign travellers whose visas have now expired must extend their visas in order to cross the Russian border or board any outbound flight.
To extend your visa or migration registration if you live in Moscow, the Moscow Ministry of Interior urges you to visit your district police office at the earliest convenience. You can find the working hours and contact details for district police offices on the Moscow Ministry of Interior’s website (link may only open in Chrome).
If you live outside of Moscow you should check the guidance from your local police office.
Health
If you show any symptoms of coronavirus, such as respiratory illness or a temperature, you are required to self-isolate even if you haven’t been tested. You will only be permitted to go outside in order to seek medical help. You will need a digital code for this journey if using transport, details can be found on the Moscow City website. Any cohabitants must also self-isolate and can only use transport to seek medical help. However, cohabitants can travel by foot for urgent medical care, for essential work, to visit the nearest food shop or pharmacy, to walk pets within 100m of their property and to take out the rubbish.
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Russia.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
