The Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) advises against all travel to the whole of Russia due to the lack of available flight options to return to the UK, and the increased volatility in the Russian economy.
On 24 February 2022 Russia launched a large scale invasion of Ukraine which is ongoing.
On 24 February 2022 the Prime Minister announced that, as a result of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, all scheduled services operated by Russian airlines would be banned from operating to or from entering the United Kingdom’s airspace. This ban came into effect at midnight the same day.
In response, on 25 February 2022, the Russian authorities introduced restrictions on all UK operated flights using Russian airspace.
Due to the continuing risk the conflict poses to civil air travel, British Airways has decided to immediately cease flights to Russia.
On 27 February 2022, the EU announced that, as a result of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, Russian aircraft would be banned from operating to or from entering the EU’s airspace.
The full list of countries who have closed their airspace for Russian aircraft has been published by the Russian aviation authorities (in Russian).
If you are in Russia, you should be aware that it may not be possible to fly directly to the UK, or via EU countries, and should amend any travel plans accordingly. Check the latest information with your airline or travel provider. Connecting flights, largely via the Middle East and Turkey are operational for travel from Russia to the UK and other destinations.
Travelling into Latvia from Russia
If you are planning to travel into Latvia, check the travel advice page for Latvia which includes information on entry requirements, including Covid requirements.
See the Latvian Government website for information about crossing the border.
Travelling from Russia into Finland
If you are planning to travel into Finland, check the travel advice page for Finland which includes information on entry requirements, including Covid requirements.
See the Finnish Border Guard website for information about crossing the border.
Travelling from Russia into Estonia
If you are planning to travel into Estonia, check the travel advice page for Estonia which includes information on entry requirements, including Covid requirements.
See the Estonian Police and Border Guard Board for information about crossing the border.
Find information on local travel, including information on border crossings to some neighbouring countries in the Local travel section of safety and security.
Consular support is severely limited in parts of Russia due to the security situation. The North Caucasus remains an unstable and potentially dangerous region. The Russian authorities take a particularly strict attitude towards security, as well as compliance with visa and registration rules.
Short-term travel restrictions are sometimes applied in relation to ongoing security operations. These are publicised at very short notice, if at all. Cross-border traffic with Georgia and Azerbaijan is also subject to restrictions. See Local travel
British nationals in need of consular assistance should call the British Embassy in Moscow and then select the option for consular assistance +7 (8) 495 956 7200. Phone lines are answered 24hrs a day. You can contact the emergency services by calling 112.
The value of the Ruble has fallen considerably in recent days, and there are reports of large numbers of people attempting to withdraw their savings from Russian banks. You should be aware that any amounts of Russian currency you hold may reduce in value over the coming days. There are also reports that foreign nationals in Russia are having difficulty using ATM and banking services. You should be aware that it may not be possible for you to access your funds through Russian banks.
Following President Putin’s decision to invade Ukraine, there have been several reports of anti-war protests across Russia. There is a heavy police presence to prevent these from taking place.
On 24 February the Russian authorities announced restrictions on domestic flights to a number of airports in southern Russia, with disruption to internal flights to and from Moscow and other cities. The restrictions are set to be in place until 8 March 2022. Check the latest information with your airline or travel provider. The Russian aviation authorities have published information about the affected airports(in Russian). See Safety and security and Travel in Russia
There are reports of increased police presence and ID checks. You should keep your passport with you at all times. See Safety and security
COVID-19 entry restrictions for Russia
Before you travel, check the ‘Entry requirements’ section for Russia’s current entry restrictions and requirements. These may change with little warning. Monitor this advice for the latest updates and stay in contact with your travel provider.
Travelling from and returning to the UK
Check what you must do to travel abroad and return to England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
If you plan to pass through another country to return to the UK, check the travel advice for the country you’re transiting. If you will pass through a red list country, book your hotel quarantine package before travelling to the UK.
If you’re planning travel to Russia, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCDO’s guidance on foreign travel insurance.
For information about COVID-19 vaccines, see the Coronavirus page.
Following the nerve agent attack in Salisbury on 4 March 2018, there are heightened political tensions between the UK and Russia. Russia’s invasion of Ukraine has caused significant political tension between Russia and Western countries. While the British Embassy in Moscow is not aware of any increased difficulties for British people travelling to Russia, you’re advised to remain vigilant, avoid any protests or demonstrations, and avoid commenting publicly on political developments.
Terrorists are very likely to try to carry out attacks in Russia. See Terrorism.
The UK doesn’t recognise Crimea as being part of Russia. See the Ukraine travel advice page for details.
Political rallies and demonstrations can occur in Moscow, St Petersburg and other places across Russia. Check the local media for the latest information, be vigilant, and avoid any demonstrations. See Political situation.
You should be aware of the risk of street crime. See Crime.
According to the Federal Agency for Statistics, British nationals made around 22,471 visit to Russia in 2020. Most visits are trouble-free.
Small earth tremors are recorded throughout the year without consequences. To learn more about what to do before, during and after an earthquake, see the website of the US Federal Emergency Management Agency.
The Overseas Business Risk service offers information and advice for British companies operating overseas on how to manage political, economic, and business security-related risks.
