!
Warning
FCDO advises against all travel to Russia.

The Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) provides advice about risks of travel to help British nationals make informed decisions. Find out more about FCDO travel advice.
FCDO advises against all travel to Russia
Your travel insurance could be invalidated if you travel against FCDO advice. Consular support is also severely limited where FCDO advises against travel.
FCDO advises British nationals against all travel to Russia due to the risks and threats from its continuing invasion of Ukraine. The situation in Russia is unpredictable. This includes:
security incidents, such as drone attacks, happening in some parts of the country
lack of available flights to return to the UK
limited ability for the UK government to provide consular assistance
Security situation in Russia
The Russian invasion of Ukraine continues. There are reports of drone attacks and explosions in areas in western and southern Russia, particularly near the Russian border with Ukraine, Moscow and St Petersburg.
Political rallies and demonstrations can take place in Moscow, St Petersburg and across Russia. Check the local media for the latest information. Be vigilant and avoid any political demonstrations or gatherings.
The situation remains unpredictable and could escalate without warning.
Leaving Russia
FCDO advises British nationals to consider leaving Russia.
If you do not need to be in Russia, we strongly advise you to consider leaving.
You cannot fly directly from Russia to the UK or though EU countries. Commercial flight options are limited and can sell out quickly. Check with your airline or travel provider.
British nationals should exercise extreme caution at all times. Travel within or out of Russia is at your own risk.
By air
You cannot fly direct from Russia to the UK or through EU countries. There are limited commercial airlines with indirect flights via the Middle East, Serbia and Turkey. Check the latest information with your airline or travel provider.
By road
Land borders may be busy. Be prepared for a long wait to exit Russia. You may also be questioned at the border. During periods of unrest, check the local media for updates on the situation before travelling.
Some European countries have restricted or banned the entry of vehicles registered in Russia , this includes:
Estonia
Finland
Latvia
Lithuania
Norway
If you plan to drive a vehicle registered in Russia into Europe check that you are eligible to do so.
By bus
Some bus companies have international routes. The situation may change quickly. Check these companies for availability of buses, timetables and tickets:
Ecolines – buses to Riga (Latvia), Tallinn (Estonia), Helsinki (Finland), Vilnius (Lithuania) and other destinations in Europe
Baltic Shuttle – buses from St Petersburg to Tallinn (Estonia)
Lux Express – buses from St Petersburg to Riga (Latvia), Tallinn (Estonia), Helsinki (Finland)
Travelling from Russia to Latvia
Check the travel advice for Latvia.
See the Latvian government website for information on crossing the border.
Travelling from Russia to Finland
Check the travel advice for Finland.
See the Finnish border guard website for information on crossing the border.
The train service from Russia to Finland is no longer available.
Travelling from Russia to Estonia
Check the travel advice for Estonia.
See the Estonian police and border guard website for information on crossing the border.
If you’re planning to cross into Estonia by road at the Narva-1 border crossing point, see the Go Swift Queue Management Service.
Travelling from Russia to Lithuania
Check the travel advice for Lithuania.
If you’re planning to cross into Lithuania by road from Kaliningrad oblast at the Kybartai border crossing point, see the Lithuanian state border crossing website.
Travelling from Russia to Norway
Check the travel advice for Norway.
Staying in Russia
If you decide to stay in Russia, you should:
keep your departure plans under constant review
ensure your travel documents are up to date
follow local media
stay alert to security warnings and follow the advice of local authorities
take cover in buildings or underground and avoid windows in the event of drone attack
sign up to email alerts for Russia travel advice
Read FCDO advice on what to do if you’re affected by a crisis abroad and how to prepare.
Support for British nationals in Russia
The British Embassy in Moscow and British Consulate Ekaterinburg are open, but the situation could change at short notice.
In person consular support in Russia is limited. It is very limited in parts of Russia because of the security situation and the size of the country, particularly in the North Caucasus.
If you need consular assistance, call our 24-hour helpline +7 495 956 7200 and select the option for consular services for British nationals.
Contact the Russian emergency services on 112.
Dual nationals
Dual British-Russian nationals are treated as Russian nationals by local authorities. The consular support FCDO can provide is severely limited. If you are arrested or detained, Russian authorities are unlikely to allow us to provide consular access.
In 2022, Russia declared a partial mobilisation of Russian citizens to join the military forces. While mobilisation has ended, military recruitment continues. Anyone with a Russian passport could be conscripted.
In August, Russian law was amended to stop Russian nationals eligible for military conscription from leaving Russia from the day their draft notice appears on the federal electronic conscription register.
Before you travel
No travel can be guaranteed safe. Read all the advice in this guide as well as support for British nationals abroad which includes:
advice on preparing for travel abroad and reducing risks
information for women, LGBT+ and disabled travellers
Follow and contact FCDO travel on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram. You can also sign up to get email notifications when this advice is updated.
Travel insurance
If you choose to travel, research your destinations and get appropriate travel insurance. Insurance should cover your itinerary, planned activities and expenses in an emergency.
