

This information is for people travelling on a full ‘British citizen’ passport from the UK. It is based on the UK government’s understanding of the current rules for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands set and enforce entry rules. If you’re not sure how these requirements apply to you, contact the Government of South Georgia and the Sandwich Islands.
Passport validity requirements
To enter South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands, your passport must be valid for the duration of your stay, plus an additional 4 weeks from the end date of your Entry Permit.
See ‘Entry Permits’ below for more information about the requirement to have an Entry Permit for visiting South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands.
Check with your travel provider that your passport and other travel documents meet requirements. Renew your passport if you need to.
You will be denied entry if you do not have a valid travel document or try to use a passport that has been reported lost or stolen.
Entry permits
All persons (unless otherwise exempted) entering South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands for work or visitor purposes need an Entry Permit.
Application process
Applications must be made through the Government of South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands Entry Control Portal.
Applications can be made by an individual, or multiple applications can be made on behalf of a number of persons by an authorised person such as a travel agent, cruise ship operator or family member. Separate applications are needed for visitor and work permits.
Before applying, check whether your agent, such as your tour operator, intends to apply on your behalf for your visit.
Applications should be received and paid for 14 days prior to the first intended date of arrival in South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands. Late applications will only be considered in specific circumstances, and no applications will be granted for permits within 4 days of arrival.
Visitor Entry Permits are 30 days in length.
You will be denied entry if you do not have a valid Entry Permit and the travel document associated with that permit.
Permit fees
See visiting South Georgia guide for information on permit fees.
Vaccine requirements
For details about medical entry requirements and recommended vaccinations, see TravelHealthPro’s South Georgia and the Sandwich Islands guide.
