

Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.    
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands, attacks cannot be ruled out.
Crime
There is no history of crime in the territory. The islands have no indigenous population, and the only residents are employees of the Government of South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands, the British Antarctic Survey and the South Georgia Heritage Trust.
Unexploded weapons
There are unexploded weapons on the islands. If you come across a weapon:
do not touch it or approach it
clearly mark the area where the item is located
take a picture of the item, if safe to do so
inform the Government Officer at King Edward Point of its position
Laws and cultural differences
South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands is a British Overseas Territory and has its own laws. It is administered by a commissioner, based in the Falkland Islands.
The Government of South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands maintains a staffed office at King Edward Point on South Georgia.
LGBT+ travellers
Same-sex marriage is legal in South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands.
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Biosecurity
Biosecurity measures are in place to protect the fragile ecosystem of the islands from invasive species. Follow the Government of South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands’ biosecurity protocols while on the islands. If you fail to do so, you could get a fine or a prison sentence.
Prohibited areas
Access is prohibited to all historic buildings at the former whaling stations of Prince Olav Harbour, Leith Harbour, Stromness and Husvik on South Georgia. This is due to the buildings being in a dangerous state of disrepair or because of asbestos. Wind-blown debris including asbestos dust is a significant health risk.
You are prohibited from entering or approaching within 200 metres of the former whaling stations, unless directed otherwise by the Commissioner’s Office or the Government Officer at King Edward Point.
Transport risks
You can only travel to South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands by sea. There are no scheduled services other than those provided by cruise ships, yachts, or expedition companies. There are no roads on any of the islands.
The conditions and terrain on the islands are harsh. The interior is not fully mapped, and nearby waters are not always accurately or completely charted.
Cruise vessel operators
For organised travel, consider using a tour operator that belongs to the International Association of Antarctica Tour Operators. Its members sign up to the codes of practice on operational and environmental safety and often have access to more of the islands.
Cruise vessels operators must have adequate insurance arrangements to cover liability. Permission for visits by cruise vessels is granted on this basis.
Extreme weather
There are risks posed by the harsh climatic conditions, with changeable and unpredictable storms throughout the year which may affect your plans. Frequent storms and the lack of sheltered anchorages may make landing on the islands very difficult. In winter the South Sandwich Islands may be surrounded by pack ice.
Before you land, consider taking sensible precautions by:  
making sure you have clothing and equipment suitable for the conditions
being trained and competent in the use of any specialist equipment
taking appropriate steps to protect yourself from the sun as very strong
