Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Libya on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Libya.
Returning to the UK
Travelling from and returning to the UK
Check what you must do to travel abroad and return to England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
If you plan to pass through another country to return to the UK, check the travel advice for the country you’re transiting.
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during the COVID-19 pandemic. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
What should you do if you test positive in Libya before returning to the UK?
You will be required to self-isolate in either a hotel or private accommodation until you test negative for COVID-19. If medical assistance is required you should call the Ministry of Health operations room:
Central Operations Room: 199
Operations Room - western and southern regions: 0214631334 - 0910912743 - 0910912724
Operations Room: eastern region: 06147474602 - 0614747609 - 0920123444
COVID-19 Operations Room - for quick response and emergencies: 0214629191 - 0214629022
Whilst self-isolating you can expect to be contacted by the municipality you are quarantining in.
If you leave the hotel or private accommodation you are quarantining in, you will not be able to receive any assistance from the authorities. You will not be stopped from leaving Libya but you must ensure you check onward travel rules.
Travel in Libya
Libya has announced a number of measures and restrictions to limit the spread of the virus. Implementation of these measures has been relaxed but they may be tightened again at short notice.
Consular support is not available from the British government from within Libya, as consular operations remain suspended. If you need to speak to a consular officer, call the FCDO in London on +44 (0)20 7008 1500 or email Tunisconsular.enquiries@fco.gov.uk.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Libya
We will update this page when the Government of Libya announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Libyan national vaccination programme started in April 2021 and is using the Pfizer-BioNTech, AstraZeneca, Sputnik V, Sputnik Light, Sinopharm and Janssen (Johnson and Johnson) vaccines. The Government of Libya has stated that British nationals resident in Libya are eligible for vaccination if they choose to join the programme. Further information on the vaccination programme is available on the Department for Health and National Centre for Disease Control websites.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in Libya, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
