!
Warning
FCDO advises against all travel to parts of Libya.
!
Warning
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to parts of Libya.

Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times. 
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Libya
Terrorist attacks in Libya cannot be ruled out.
Attacks could be indiscriminate, including in places visited by foreigners. British people and nationals of other western countries are considered high-value hostages. Government buildings and security checkpoints have also been targeted in recent years, leading to deaths.
Recent significant attacks include: 
In April 2022, 3 people were injured in a car bombing attack by Islamic State near a Tariq Ibn Ziyad Brigade camp in Umm el Araneb, Southern Libya. 
In 2021 Daesh claimed responsibility for 2 separate bomb attacks on Libyan security forces in the Fezzan province in southern Libya.  These attacks killed at least 4 people.
Extremist groups including Daesh in Libya (formerly referred to as ISIL) are responsible for most attacks, which have targeted:
foreign and diplomatic personnel and premises
international hotels
oil installations
government and other official security institutions
While there is a greater concentration of terrorist groups in the Fezzan Province, it is highly likely smaller numbers of terrorists can move relatively freely to other towns and regions to facilitate activity outside of the Fezzan Province.
In the north of Libya, it is likely security pressure and violence between armed groups have helped to limit the movement of terrorist groups.
It is likely both Daesh and Al-Qaida in the Islamic Maghreb (AQIM) are using the Fezzan region in south-west Libya as a base for operations such as people-smuggling and illegally transporting weapons. These resources are essential to support terrorist activity in West Africa.
The risk of terrorism may be higher if you travel in the border regions. Extremist groups operating in the region, including AQIM and Daesh, conduct operations in the border areas of northern Mali, Niger and Algeria. They have a proven capability of travelling long distances to carry out attacks, including in neighbouring countries and Libya.
Terrorist kidnap
There has not been a terrorist kidnap in Libya for many years. Terrorist groups within Libya have intent to carry out kidnappings and it’s a realistic possibility that they will target foreign nationals. Criminal gangs also carry out kidnappings, and there is a realistic possibility that they would sell hostages on to terrorist groups. Foreign nationals have been kidnapped in Libya in the past, including 4 foreign nationals in south-east Libya in 2018. 
It is likely that any kidnap for ransom attempt by a terrorist group in Libya would occur in the south of the country, whereas a kidnap for ransom by militias would occur in a northern coastal city. 
In recent months, the importance of oil and natural gas production in Libya has increased, and any western nationals working for oil and natural gas companies in Libya are highly likely viewed as high-value targets. 
British nationals are seen as legitimate targets, including tourists, humanitarian aid workers, journalists and business travellers. If you are kidnapped, the reason for your presence is unlikely to protect you or secure your safe release. 
The long-standing policy of the British government is to not make substantive concessions to hostage takers. The British government considers that paying ransoms and releasing prisoners builds the capability of terrorist groups and finances their activities. This can, in turn, increase the risk of further hostage-taking. The Terrorism Act (2000) makes payments to terrorists illegal.
Regional risks
Ongoing hostilities in the region and between Israel and Iran could escalate quickly and pose security risks for the wider region. 
You should:
monitor local and international media for the latest information
be vigilant and follow the instructions of local authorities
Political situation
The political situation in Libya is fragile and the security situation remains dangerous and unpredictable. 
There is a UN-facilitated ceasefire in place between eastern and western armed forces. The risk of renewed fighting between them has decreased, but there is still a high risk of localised violence between competing armed groups throughout the country. 
Violence between armed groups can break out with little warning. In 2022, clashes between armed groups in Tripoli killed 32 people and injured over 150. Clashes again broke out in August 2023 in central Tripoli, resulting in roadblocks and the temporary closure of Mitiga Airport. 
Foreign forces and mercenaries continue to operate in Libya. The Interim Government of National Unity has limited control of security provision across the country. The lack of political stability has led to security incidents, road and airport closures, and oil blockades. 
There have been protests throughout Libya against the continued political deadlock, lack of basic service provision and corruption. 
If you choose to travel to Libya, you should: 
monitor the local security situation carefully 
remain vigilant 
have robust security arrangements and contingency plans in place 
Public infrastructure and services 
Basic services across Libya vary. Petrol can be difficult to access and there are regularly long queues at fuel stations. There can also be power outages in Tripoli and the south and east, particularly in the summer months.
Crime
Crime is widespread across Libya and violent robbery, carjacking and smuggling of fuel, drugs, weapons and people are common across the country and in major cities such as Benghazi and Tripoli. Armed groups and local security services regularly carry out operations against criminal gangs.
Protecting your belongings
Take sensible precautions to protect yourself and your belongings. Foreign nationals may be a target for criminals operating in Libya. Be cautious when travelling throughout the country, particularly at night. You should:
consider your route
vary daily routines
hide expensive looking items which could draw unwanted attention
Detention
British people have been detained by Libya’s intelligence services or armed groups, including in Tripoli and Benghazi. You are at higher risk of detention if you work:
in private security
as a journalist
for an NGO
If intelligence services or armed groups detain you in Libya, your health and welfare may be put at serious risk, especially if you have an existing medical condition. The British Embassy will have limited capability to help you or intervene on your behalf. Any help will be even more limited for dual nationals of Libyan origin as you will be in your home country and dual nationality is not recognised by the Libyan authorities.
Laws and cultural differences
Personal ID
By law you must carry your passport. Foreign nationals have been arrested for failing to provide the correct documentation when requested.
Ramadan
Libya is an Islamic country. Respect local traditions, laws and religious customs, especially during the holy month of Ramadan.
Ramadan dates vary by year and country. During this time do not:
eat, drink, smoke or chew gum in public in the daytime, including in your car
play loud music or dance
swear in public
Get more advice when you arrive from your hotel or business contacts.
You should also:
check opening hours of shops and restaurants
be aware that if hotels and restaurants are providing food or drink in fasting hours, they may separate you from Islamic guests, for example with screens
follow local dress codes – clothing that does not meet local dress codes may cause more offence at this time
be aware that fasting can cause tiredness, particularly during the later afternoon and early evening
be patient and show tolerance
Religion
It is illegal in Libya to make any attempt to convert Muslims to another religion.
Alcohol and drugs laws
It is illegal in Libya to drink alcohol or use drugs. Libyan authorities treat drug and alcohol offences seriously. You can be punished for use, possession and trafficking of drugs or alcohol.
Business travel in Libya
There are often complex bureaucratic procedures needed to travel for work in Libya. Follow all relevant protocols and procedures if you intend to travel around Libya for business. You are likely to be at risk of intimidation, harassment and detention if you fail to comply with local customs.
Journalism in Libya
You must get press accreditation from the relevant government authorities. This may reduce the risk of harassment, intimidation and detention by armed groups and Libya’s intelligence services. There is a real risk of hostility from those who object to media reporting. International and local journalists have previously been detained in Libya.
Using cameras near military facilities
You must get permission before taking any photographs or interviewing at or near military facilities.
LGBT+ travellers
Consensual same-sex sexual activity is illegal for men and women in Libya, with penalties of up to five years imprisonment. 
Libyan society is intolerant of people of the same sex showing affection in public. Individuals perceived to be part of the LGBT+ community have experienced physical and psychological violence and harassment. There have also been arrests for people perceived as ‘promoting homosexuality’.
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Transport risks
Road travel
Road travel within Libya remains highly dangerous. There is a risk of being caught up in outbreaks of localised violence between armed groups. There is a high risk of:
carjacking
robbery
striking unexploded bombs or mines off-road
The risk is very high on the coastal road between Zawiyah and Tripoli.
All land borders into Libya are subject to closure at short notice.
If the security situation worsens, routes in and out of major cities and towns may be blocked and airports closed or made inaccessible at little or no notice.
Do not share your travel or other plans through social media. Vary your travel routes and always keep a low profile.
Road traffic accidents are common and often result in deaths. The emergency response to a road traffic accident may be limited.
Air travel
Flights to and from all airports in Libya are at risk of cancellation at short notice.
Tripoli International Airport has been closed since 2014, following clashes between armed groups in the area surrounding the airport. Other airports may change their flight schedule without notice. Mitiga Airport, which operates international fllights, is Tripoli’s only currently functioning civilian airport. Fighting between armed groups in the area caused Mitiga Airport to temporarily close in 2023.
The UK Air Safety List (ASL) lists all known airlines in Libya that do not meet international safety standards and are banned from operating commercial air services to, from, and within the UK. Check the UK Air Safety List when considering which airlines to fly with. The list is maintained by the Department for Transport, based on advice from the UK Civil Aviation Authority.
Extreme weather and natural disasters
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards.
Storm damage in eastern Libya
In September 2023 Storm Daniel struck eastern Libya, causing severe flooding and significantly damaging critical infrastructure, including hospitals and telecommunications networks. Libya remains vulnerable to severe weather incidents, with flooding impacting cities, including Tripoli and Misrata in December 2024.
