Coronavirus guidance is being updated.
Read the Prime Minister’s statement for the latest information.

The Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advise against all travel to Libya. This advice has been in place consistently since 2014. If you’re in Libya against this advice, you should seek to leave immediately by any practical means.
All travel to, from and within Libya is at the traveller’s risk. Local security situations are fragile and can quickly deteriorate into intense fighting and clashes without warning.
Due to the ongoing coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic, Libya’s air, land and maritime borders are closed. Occasionally the Libyan authorities or foreign embassies organise repatriation flights to European countries to enable the repatriation of Libyan nationals based in those countries. If you would like information on these flights, email Tunisconsular.enquiries@fco.gov.uk. The FCO cannot offer advice on the safety of individual departure options, including these flights, or on travel to a departure point. You should make your own judgement about the safest route out of the country, taking account of the advice of local authorities. This may include curfews and travel restrictions as a result of the conflict and COVID-19 pandemic. In certain areas, e.g. where fighting is taking place, the best course of action may be to stay where you are until it becomes safer to move on.
Consular support is not available from the British government from within Libya, as consular operations remain suspended. If you need to speak to a consular officer, call the FCO in London on +44 (0)20 7008 1500 or email Tunisconsular.enquiries@fco.gov.uk.
Inter-militia fighting poses significant risks to air travel in Libya. It has periodically caused the temporary suspension or closure of airports. All airports are vulnerable to attack. Mitiga Airport, Tripoli’s only functioning civilian airport, has been regularly shelled by artillery, most recently on 9 May 2020, and is currently closed. FCO staff do not travel by air to or from Mitiga. See Air travel
Since April 2019, there has been a significant build-up of militarised forces in the west of Libya. Regular and heavy armed clashes continue to take place to the south and west of Tripoli. See Safety and security
Terrorists are very likely to try to carry out attacks in Libya. In August 2019, a car bomb explosion in the eastern city of Benghazi killed five, including three foreign nationals. There remains a high threat throughout the country of terrorist attacks and kidnap against foreigners, including from Daesh-affiliated extremists (formerly referred to as ISIL) and Al Qaida, as well as armed militias. Daesh and Al Qaeda have attacked a number of oil and gas installations and killed or kidnapped workers, including foreign nationals. See Terrorism
If you choose to travel to Libya against FCO advice, you should consider your security arrangements carefully and take all necessary security precautions, including contingency plans. You should also take out comprehensive travel and medical insurance before you travel.
Following the attack on the coalition base at Taji in Iraq on 11 March, and subsequent US airstrikes, tensions may be raised across the region. There is a possibility of an increased threat against Western interests, including against UK citizens. You should remain vigilant and keep up to date with the latest developments, including via the media and this travel advice.
If you choose to travel to Libya against FCO advice, you should get the right visa, or risk deportation. See Entry requirements
If you’re entering Libya as a media representative, you should get press accreditation from the relevant Libyan authorities.
