!
Warning
FCDO advises against all travel to parts of Libya.
!
Warning
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to parts of Libya.

Your travel insurance could be invalidated if you travel against advice from the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO).
Areas where FCDO advises against travel
FCDO advises against all travel to Libya except for the cities of Benghazi and Misrata. 
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to the cities of Benghazi and Misrata.
Find out more about why the FCDO advises against travel. 
Heightened military presence in Tripoli
On 12 May, significant armed clashes broke out across Tripoli. A ceasefire was agreed on 14 May and has largely held. The situation remains fragile and a return to violence is possible. Flights have resumed operations at Mitiga international airport in Tripoli.
FCDO continues to advise against all travel to Libya except for the cities of Benghazi and Misrata, to which we advise against all but essential travel.
If you are a British national already in, or planning to travel to Tripoli, you should have robust security arrangements and contingency plans in place.
Due to the current political tensions and risks of increased insecurity in Tripoli, the British Embassy has temporarily reduced staff numbers. The Embassy in Tripoli remains open, with the Ambassador and a substantial team of staff present.
UK government support
UK government support is limited in Libya. If you are in Libya and need urgent help from the UK government (for example, if you’ve been attacked, arrested or someone has died) contact the British Embassy in Tunis, Tunisia who provide assistance for British nationals in Libya. In-person support is not available in Libya.
Before you travel 
No travel can be guaranteed safe. Read all the advice in this guide. You may also find it helpful to:  
see general advice for women travellers 
read our guide on disability and travel abroad 
see general advice for LGBT+ travellers 
read about safety for solo and independent travel 
see advice on volunteering and adventure travel abroad
Travel insurance 
If you choose to travel, research your destinations and get appropriate travel insurance. Insurance should cover your itinerary, planned activities and expenses in an emergency.
About FCDO travel advice
FCDO provides advice about risks of travel to help you make informed decisions. Find out more about FCDO travel advice.
Get travel advice updates
Sign up to get email notifications when this travel advice is updated.
Follow FCDO:   
travel advice on X
travel advice on Facebook
Travel Aware on Instagram
