Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for the Republic of the Congo on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
Commercial flights to and from the Republic of the Congo remain limited. Check with your travel company for the latest information.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in the Republic of the Congo.
Returning to the UK
Travelling from and returning to the UK
Check what you must do to travel abroad and return to England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
If you plan to pass through another country to return to the UK, check the travel advice for the country you’re transiting. If you will pass through a red list country, book your hotel quarantine package before travelling to the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with any UK government testing requirements.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19 you will not be able to travel and must isolate at home or in a hotel specifically requisitioned by the government, at your expense, for 14 days. You must test negative before traveling. Health authorities will inform you if you test positive and monitor the progress of those who do. The government does not provide any assistance for treatment, this would need to be covered by your insurance. This applies to all, including those under 18.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in the Republic of the Congo
The following measures are in place and may be amended at short notice:
a curfew remains in place in Pointe-Noire and Brazzaville from 11pm until 5am
face masks must be worn in all public places
Public places and services
Face masks must be worn in all public places.
Gatherings of more than 50 people are prohibited, with the exception of public markets, which are open on weekdays (except Wednesday) and Saturday.
Bars and nightclubs are closed.
The Republic of the Congo authorities have mobilised defence and security forces to ensure compliance with the lockdown measures, at the entrance and exit of all cities across the country.
Healthcare in the Republic of the Congo
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
If you think you have COVID-19 symptoms, you should call the response number: 3434
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in the Republic of the Congo.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in the Republic of the Congo
We will update this page when the Government of the Republic of the Congo announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Republic of the Congo national vaccination programme started in March 2021 and is using the Sputnik V, Sinopharm, and Janssen (Johnson and Johnson) vaccines. British nationals resident in the Republic of the Congo are eligible for vaccination, depending on available stocks, if they choose to join the programme. Further information on the vaccination programme can be found at the emergency Public Health Operations Centre of the Ministry of Health and Population, or at the vaccination centre at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in the Republic of the Congo, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
