This page has information on travelling to the Republic of the Congo.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport from the UK, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in the Republic of the Congo set and enforce entry rules. If you’re unsure how Congo’s entry requirements apply to you, contact its UK embassy, high commission or consulate.
All travellers
You will need get a visa before entering or travel through the Republic of the Congo as a visitor. For more information, see the website of the honorary consulate of the Republic of the Congo in the UK.
Before departure, all passengers travelling to the Republic of the Congo are required to complete a Health and Immigration Declaration Form. All passengers arriving in the Republic of the Congo by commercial flights should provide proof of a negative RT-PCR coronavirus (COVID-19) test undertaken within 72 hours upon entry.
You should not use the NHS testing service to get a test in order to facilitate your travel to another country. You should arrange to take a private test.
Travel between provinces
Travellers moving from one province to another must present a negative coronavirus test result. The test result date must fall within 3 days before the date you intend to leave the province.
If you’re fully vaccinated
Entry requirements for the Republic of the Congo are the same for all travellers, regardless of COVID-19 vaccination status. See All travellers.
Proof of vaccination status
No proof of vaccination status is required to enter the Republic of the Congo.
If you’re not fully vaccinated
Entry requirements for the Republic of the Congo are the same for all travellers, regardless of COVID-19 vaccination status. See All travellers.
If you’ve had COVID-19 in the past year
Entry requirements for the Republic of the Congo are the same for all travellers, whether or not you have had COVID-19 in the past year. See All travellers.
Children and young people
Children under 10 years old do not need to take an RT-PCR test to enter the Republic of the Congo, and are not subject to the mandatory test on arrival.
If you’re transiting through the Republic of the Congo
Transiting is when you pass through one country on the way to your final destination.
The same measures apply whether or not you are transiting through the Republic of the Congo. See All travellers above for further information.
Exemptions
There are no exemptions to the Republic of the Congo’s entry requirements.
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
Passport validity
If you are visiting the Republic of the Congo, your passport should be valid for the proposed duration of your stay. No additional period of validity beyond this is needed.
Check with your travel provider to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Visas
You must get a visa before travel. For more information, see the website of the honorary consulate of the Republic of the Congo in the UK.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
A UK emergency travel document with 6 months validity will be accepted on entry to and departure from the Republic of the Congo.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
Returning to the UK
Before departure, all passengers are subject to a mandatory COVID-19 test, passengers must register and pay for their test before their departure. Passengers who test positive will not be authorised to travel. Passengers are responsible for covering all costs associated with self-isolating and testing.
For more information and instructions on how to register and a pay for the mandatory arrival is available form the Ministry of Health.
