There are currently no commercial options available to return to the UK from the Republic of Congo. The Republic of Congo has closed all land, air and maritime borders until further notice with the exception of cargo flights and vessels.
Flights
The Italian Embassy, Brazzaville is exploring the possibility of a special charter flight from Brazzaville/Pointe Noire to Addis/Rome which British Nationals may use to return to the UK. The special flight is being arranged by the company Euro-World. The company has confirmed there are no scheduled stops in Kinshasa, Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC).
To register interest in this flight from Brazzaville, you should contact: 053312020 – 068339333 or e-mail: Manager.etcongo@euro-world.in (attaching a copy or copies of passports of interested passengers).
To register interest in this flight from Pointe Noire, you should contact: 065100663 – 069833563 or e-mail: Manager.etpnr@euro-world.in (attaching a copy or copies of passports of interested passengers).
If you cannot leave the Republic of Congo at this time, see advice on staying in the Republic of Congo during coronavirus.
Future options
If you wish to leave the Republic of Congo you should register your interest by emailing Kinshasa.Consular@fco.gov.uk.
This travel advice will be updated when departure options become available.
Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British Embassy Kinshasa on Twitter and Facebook
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM is a commercial partner of the FCO and authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Your journey home: re-entering the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK. You:
need to provide your journey and contact details up to 48 hours before you’re due to arrive in the UK
are not allowed to leave the place you’re staying for the first 14 days you’re in the UK except in very limited situations (known as ‘self-isolating’)
See also the list of people who are exempt from the border rules.
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) also provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistant, you can contact the British Embassy in Kinshasa via email: Kinshasa.Consular@fco.gov.uk.
Further information
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
