!
Warning
FCDO advises against all travel to parts of Congo.

This guide also has safety advice for regions of the Republic of Congo. 
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.  
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in the Republic of Congo
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in the Republic of Congo, attacks cannot be ruled out.
Political situation
Demonstrations happen occasionally. In the past, demonstrations have become violent. Even when they are peaceful there is a risk of violence. Avoid any areas with demonstrations.
The Pool Region has historically been an area of conflict between Government Forces and the Ninja insurgent group. Live conflict has not been reported since both parties signed a ceasefire agreement in 2017. Violent clashes could arise again with little or no notice in response to political events. Be vigilant for reports of local unrest.
Crime
There have been reports of crime, particularly opportunistic crime such as pickpocketing, particularly in Brazzaville and Pointe Noire, and criminals may target foreigners.
Protecting yourself and your belongings
Take care of your belongings, particularly in Brazzaville and Pointe Noire. To reduce your personal risk:
avoid walking in the streets after dark
do not carry large amounts of cash or valuables
avoid isolated areas, including beaches
Vehicle crime
Criminals may target your car. Take extra precautions against criminals targeting your vehicle, especially when travelling outside urban centres and anywhere in the Pool Region and Mouyondzi District. Reduce the risk of carjacking and break-ins by:
locking doors and keeping windows closed, including whilst travelling
not driving away from main routes
always parking in a secure location
making journeys during daylight hours in rural areas
Laws and cultural differences
Personal ID
Police may ask you for ID. Always carry a colour copy of your passport, including your visa entry stamp. If you live in Congo, also always carry a colour copy of your residency card.
Transport risks
Road travel
If you are planning to drive in the Republic of Congo, see information on driving abroad.
You can use a UK photocard driving licence to drive in the Republic of Congo. If you still have a paper driving licence, you may need to update it to a photocard licence or get the correct version of the international driving permit (IDP) as well.
Hire car companies often have stricter requirements for their customers, such as a year of driving experience, a higher minimum age and holding an IDP.
Some road conditions, particularly in remote parts of the country may be poor, particularly during the wet season from November to May. Reduce the risks of rural travel by using a well-maintained 4-wheel drive vehicle with necessary supplies. Travelling in convoy and in daylight will reduce the risk of being stranded if a breakdown or accident happens.
Checkpoints
There are frequent vehicle checkpoints in the Republic of Congo, which can be poorly marked. If you’re asked for documents at a checkpoint, stay in your vehicle and show them through a closed window.
Air travel
The UK Air Safety List (ASL) lists all known airlines in the Republic of Congo that do not meet international safety standards and are banned from operating commercial air services to, from, and within the UK. Check the UK Air Safety List when considering which airlines to fly with. The list is maintained by the Department for Transport, based on advice from the UK Civil Aviation Authority.
Rail travel
A passenger rail service operates between Brazzaville and Pointe Noire however, the service is often slow and unreliable.
Boat travel
The river border crossing between Brazzaville and Kinshasa can close without warning. The ferry stops running in late afternoon, does not run on Sunday and may be cancelled when there is bad weather. Check before travelling.
