The Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) advise against all travel to:
within 50km of the border with the Central African Republic in Likouala region
The FCDO advise against all but essential travel to:
the Boko, Kindamba, Kinkala, Mayama and Mindouli districts of Pool region
the Mouyondzi district of Bouenza region
the remainder of the Republic of Congo based on the current assessment of COVID-19 risks
Travel to the Republic of Congo is subject to entry restrictions
All passengers arriving in the Republic of Congo by commercial flights need to provide proof of a negative coronavirus (COVID-19) test, undertaken within 72 hours upon entry, with the exception of children under 11 years of age. You should not use the NHS testing service to get a test in order to facilitate your travel to another country. You should arrange to take a private test
Passengers who do not present a negative COVID-19 test upon entry will undertake a COVID-19 test at the airport, and will need to self-isolate for 14 days, pending the results
See Entry requirements for more information before you plan to travel.
Preparing for your return journey to the UK
If you are returning to the UK from overseas, you will need to:
provide your journey and contact details before you travel
check if you need to self-isolate on your return
If your return journey to the UK transits another country, you should check whether it is subject to a travel ban or any other additional requirements. If so, contact your travel provider.
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
If you are planning travel to Congo, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCDO’s guidance on foreign travel insurance.
Consular support is limited in the Republic of Congo as there is no British Embassy. However, the British Embassy Kinshasa, in the Democratic Republic of Congo can provide limited remote consular support to British nationals.
The state of public health emergency remains in force.
Presidential elections are scheduled to take place on 21 March. Outbreaks of violence are possible ahead of, or during, elections. You should remain cautious, avoid political protests and avoid travel after dark. Previous periods of unrest have seen an increased police and military presence in Brazzaville.
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in the Republic of Congo, attacks cannot be ruled out. See Terrorism. Take out comprehensive travel and medical insurance before you travel.
There have recently been confirmed cases of Ebola in North Kivu province in neighbouring Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), in the same province as a previous outbreak. Further information and updates on Ebola can be found on the WHO website and the Public Health England (PHE) website. See Health
