Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Eritrea on the TravelHealthPro website.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
Eritrea’s land borders are closed. Some international flights have resumed, including Egyptair, Fly Dubai, TARCO, and Turkish Airlines. Options for leaving Eritrea remain limited. Check with your airline before you travel.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Eritrea.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements. You should contact the Consular Affairs Office of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for information on testing facilities.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Eritrea
An internal travel ban has been lifted. Check-points are in place between main towns. Public transport (buses and taxis) are operating normally. Private vehicles are allowed on the roads.
All foreign nationals, including diplomats, must apply in advance for a travel permit to leave the Asmara region. See Travel Permits and Consular Assistance.
Accommodation
Hotels are open.
Public places and services
Most shops and business have re-opened following the easing of lockdown. Cinemas and night-clubs remain closed.
Healthcare in Eritrea
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Eritrea.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Eritrea
As information is available about the national vaccination programme, this page will be updated.
The Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) is the UK authority responsible for assessing the safety, quality and efficacy of vaccines. It has authorised the Pfizer/BioNTech, Oxford/AstraZeneca and Moderna vaccines for temporary supply and use in the UK. Find out more about MHRA approval for these vaccines.
British nationals living overseas should seek medical advice from their local healthcare provider in the country where they reside. Information about vaccines used in other national programmes, including regulatory status, should be available from the local authorities. This list of Stringent Regulatory Authorities recognised by the World Health Organisation may also be a useful source of additional information. Find out more information about the COVID-19 vaccines on the World Health Organization COVID-19 vaccines page.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Help and support
If you’re in Eritrea and in need of urgent help, contact the British Embassy.
Further information
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
