This page has information on travelling to Eritrea. Check what you must do to return to the UK.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport from the UK, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Eritrea set and enforce entry rules.
Entry to Eritrea
All land borders are closed and are not expected to re-open in the near future. International flights have resumed. See International Travel.
All travellers
It is currently not possible to travel to Eritrea as a tourist due to COVID-19 restrictions.
All travellers without exception, and vaccinated or not, must show hard copy proof of a negative PCR test, taken no more than 72 hours before arrival in Eritrea, to enter or travel through the country as a visitor.
See information on getting a test before entry.
Upon arrival in Eritrea, you need to take a rapid lateral flow test. This costs $30 and is usually included in your air ticket, although some passengers have been asked to pay at check-in or on arrival in Eritrea. You can only pay in dollar cash in Eritrea. You may be required to show a receipt of payment for the test at check-in. You may also be asked to show hard-copy proof of your vaccination status. You should check with your airline for more information.
Children and young people
Depending on their age, children and young people aged below 18 may be required to take a PCR test before entry to Eritrea, and a rapid lateral flow test upon arrival. You should check with your airline for further information on requirements.
Exemptions
There are no exemptions to the requirement for COVID-19 testing for people travelling to Eritrea.
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
Check with your travel provider to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Passport validity
If you are visiting Eritrea your passport should be valid for a minimum of six months from the date you arrive, and have at least two clear pages adjoining one another in your passport.
If you are a resident in Eritrea your passport must be valid for six months from the date you arrive.
Visas
For information about entry requirements, contact the local immigration authorities or the nearest Eritrean Embassy. You should also check with your airline or travel company for the latest information.
Dual nationals
The Eritrean authorities class dual British/Eritrean nationals entering Eritrea as Eritrean nationals. The Eritrean authorities consider all British nationals holding either Eritrean or PFDJ identity documents (including out of date documents) as Eritrean nationals. The British Embassy is unable to gain consular access to, or obtain information on dual nationals if detained by the authorities or otherwise in need of assistance. Dual nationals entering Eritrea on an Eritrean identity card rather than an Eritrean passport will need an exit visa from the Immigration Office in Asmara to leave the country.
Foreign currency
Foreign visitors must declare all foreign currency over 10,000 US dollars or equivalent on entering the country. There is no limit on the amount that can be brought in. Make sure you have had your completed foreign currency declaration form approved and stamped before you leave the airport.
If you declared currency on arrival, when you leave you will have to show that any foreign currency missing was exchanged at a branch of ’Himbol’, the State foreign currency exchange. If you spend any US dollars at an official hotel you must get a receipt to present along with the currency declaration form when you leave the country.
You are not permitted to take more than 1,000 Nafka (ERN) out of Eritrea.
If you fail to comply with these regulations you may face prosecution leading to a heavy fine, as well as a delay to your departure.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents are accepted for entry, airside transit and exit from Eritrea.
Returning to the UK
All travellers departing Eritrea must show evidence of a negative PCR test taken no more than 72 hours before departure, regardless of this no longer being a requirement to enter the UK, or whether this is a requirement of the country you are travelling to or airline you are travelling on. Tests are carried out at Sembel Hospital in Asmara. Travellers must take a copy of their passport, flight ticket and $100 cash (new note, no smaller denominations) to the hospital – or a receipt if they have paid for the test via the bank ahead of time.
The hospital will call any traveller receiving a positive result 24 hours after the test to inform them of the result; the hospital will not proactively contact any traveller receiving a negative result. The PCR certificate can then be collected from the airport or with from the airline office in Asmara – check with your airline directly for further information.
Your passport should be valid for at least six months from your date of departure to be able to leave Eritrea.
Check what you must do to return to the UK.
