Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

There are currently no commercial options available to return to the UK from Eritrea. Since 25 March, all international flights to and from Eritrea have been suspended by the Eritrean Government.
What to do
If you cannot leave Eritrea at this time, you should:
follow the advice of local authorities, including local measures to help minimise your risk of exposure to coronavirus
find accommodation that’s suitable for your needs
keep in regular contact with family and friends at home, so they know you are safe and well
Future travel options
To register your interest in potential future flights, please call +291 (0)7 660 207 with the following details:
Your full name as shown on your passport
Passport number
Date of birth
Your 13 digit ticket number, even if this has been cancelled by the airline. Starts: Ethiopian 071; Egyptian 077; or Turkish 235
Place of residence in UK
Where exactly you are currently staying in Eritrea
Email address and telephone number (please ensure that you are able to receive phone calls from unidentified numbers, including internationally, in case we need to reach you)
Any specific medical needs/vulnerabilities
Please provide the information requested above for any family members with you in Eritrea that are also seeking to return to the UK.
Verbal approval for a flight on Friday 17 April has been received. We are planning a flight on this basis. It is likely to be the only flight out of Eritrea until commercial services resume.
Tickets will not be on sale at the airport. Do not travel to the airport without a confirmed ticket
Help and support
If you’re in Eritrea and in need of urgent help, contact the British Embassy.
Further information
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
