!
Warning
FCDO advises against all travel to parts of Eritrea.

This guide also has safety advice for regions of Eritrea.
Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.   
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Eritrea
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Eritrea, attacks cannot be ruled out.
Military activity in the Red Sea area       
Military activity is currently underway in response to attempts by Houthi militants to prevent movement of international shipping in the Red Sea. While the area of activity is limited to the Red Sea and Yemen, there is a possibility that Travel Advice for nearby countries could change at short notice. You should continue to monitor Travel Advice and follow any relevant instructions from local authorities.
Political situation
Local security measures
There are  periodically reports of conscription surges and mobilisation of reservists in Eritrea, connected to regional instability of the Horn of Africa. Security measures may be in place around Asmara and other regions of Eritrea. Get advice from your host, accommodation or travel operator.
Tensions between Eritrea and Ethiopia are high. The security situation could change with little notice
Armed civilians
A large proportion of the population has access to arms under the government of Eritrea’s civilian militia programme. The British Embassy has no evidence these weapons increase the threat of violent crime.
Travel permits
Foreign nationals must apply in advance for a permit to travel outside Asmara’s surrounding province, Zoba Maekel, as well as to certain sites within the capital like the ‘tank graveyard’. There are checkpoints outside Asmara where officials will check your travel permit. Applications for permits are handled by the relevant ministry:
Ministry of Trade and Industry for business travellers
Ministry of Tourism, Harnet Avenue, for tourists
Ministry of Foreign Affairs for diplomats
Applications may take several days to be processed and are not always successful.
When applying, you must give details of the car you’ll be travelling in. There have been reports of authorities not allowing tourists to use public transport for travel outside of Asmara.
If you are living or working outside Asmara, you will also need a travel permit to leave your area of residence or work. Apply to the local region (‘zoba’) administration office.
Restrictions on travel by foreign nationals apply equally to foreign diplomats. Staff from the British Embassy cannot always provide consular assistance in person to British nationals outside Asmara.
Crime
Protecting yourself and your belongings
Though Asmara is a relatively safe city, there is a risk of street crime, especially at night. Women travellers can experience verbal and physical harassment by individuals or groups of men. To reduce your personal risk: 
do not walk alone at night
keep phones, cameras and passports out of sight
keep valuables somewhere secure, such as in a hotel safe
Laws and cultural differences
Personal ID
You must always carry ID. A copy of the photo page of your passport is enough. Keep the original and a second copy in a safe place.
Internet and phone access
Internet access is highly restricted in Eritrea, mainly limited to hotels and a small number of internet cafes. There is no 3G in the country. The national telephone networks are often unreliable and may only work for limited periods each day outside Asmara and larger towns.
International SIM cards do not work in Eritrea. You need a residence permit to buy a local SIM card and this can take several weeks. There have been unconfirmed reports that phone calls made on the Eritrean mobile network are recorded.
Photography
Photographing government buildings and military installations is illegal. Always ask if you want to take a photo in any area where security personnel are present. You need a permit to take photographs of the ‘tank graveyard’ in Asmara. You can apply for a permit at the Ministry of Tourism.
LGBT+ travellers
Same-sex sexual activity is illegal. If convicted, you can get a prison sentence.
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Transport risks
Road travel
If you are planning to drive in Eritrea, you will need a 1949 version of the international driving permit (IDP) and your UK driving licence. You cannot get an IDP outside the UK so get one before you travel.
Take both your IDP and UK driving license to the Ministry of Transportation and Communication and they will issue you with a driving permit.
See information on driving abroad.
Road conditions
Road signage and safety barriers are scarce and road surfaces are uneven. Tight blind bends and steep drops are common. Street lighting is limited and may be affected by power cuts. Other drivers may drive without lights and some drive erratically or at speed. In many parts of the country, roads are difficult or impassable during the rainy season.
Air travel
The runway at Asmara International Airport is occasionally damaged by weather conditions, particularly during the rainy season. If this happens, flights may be delayed or cancelled until the runway has been repaired, and travellers may experience significant disruption.
The UK Air Safety List (ASL) lists all known airlines in Eritrea that do not meet international safety standards and are banned from operating commercial air services to, from, and within the UK. Check the UK Air Safety List when considering which airlines to fly with. The list is maintained by the Department for Transport, based on advice from the UK Civil Aviation Authority.
Check whether your tour operator has concerns about airlines in Eritrea.
Sea travel
Mariners should get permissions and entry visas before attempting to enter Eritrean waters. Vessels have been impounded and crew detained for entering Eritrean waters or landing in Eritrea, including islands belonging to Eritrea without permission.
Piracy risk
The Southern Red Sea area is a hotspot for maritime crime and security incidents.  
There is still a significant risk of piracy in the Gulf of Aden and Indian Ocean, where piracy has been reduced but not prevented. The threat assessment of the combined international naval counter-piracy forces is that sailing yachts should not enter the designated high-risk area, due to the risk of hijacking.
