The Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) advises against all travel to:
Within 25km of Eritrea’s land borders, with the exceptions of: the town of Tessenei; the border crossing at Debay Sima – Burre, plus the main paved roads leading to the crossing.
The FCDO advises against all but essential travel to:
the remainder of Eritrea based on the current assessment of COVID-19 risks
Explosions were reported in Asmara after dark on 14, 26, 27 and 28 November, as a result of rockets launched from the military conflict in Tigray, Ethiopia. Further attacks cannot be ruled out. You should exercise extreme caution; stay away from government and military sites and airports wherever possible; avoid moving around at night and follow local advice.
Eritrea’s land borders are closed and commercial, international and domestic flights are suspended until further notice. Options for leaving Eritrea are limited. If you are in Eritrea and wish to leave, you should urgently contact the British Embassy in Asmara for details of any upcoming charter flights and register your interest. You can call the local number +291 7 660 207 (8:30am to 3:00pm, Monday to Thursday or 8:30am – midday Friday) or consular services on +44 (0) 20 7008 1500 (24/7). You should be ready to give your passport, visa and identification document details when you call.
COVID-19 entry restrictions for Eritrea
Before you travel, check the ‘Entry requirements’ section for Eritrea’s current entry restrictions and requirements. These may change with little warning. Monitor this advice for the latest updates and stay in contact with your travel provider.
Returning to the UK
Eritrea is on the red list for entering England. Check what you must do to enter England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
If you’re planning travel to Eritrea, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCDO’s guidance on foreign travel insurance.
For information about COVID-19 vaccines, see the Coronavirus page.
All foreign nationals, including diplomats, must apply in advance for a travel permit to leave the Asmara region. See Travel Permits and Consular Assistance.
Consular support is severely limited in parts of Eritrea. If you’re in Eritrea and you need urgent help (for example, you’ve been attacked, arrested or someone has died), call +44 (0)20 7008 1500. Alternatively you can call the local number +291 7 660 207 (8am to 4:30pm, Monday to Thursday or 8am to midday, Friday). See Consular Assistance.
The Eritrean authorities consider all British nationals holding either Eritrean or PFDJ identity documents (including out of date documents) as Eritrean nationals. The British Embassy is unable to offer consular assistance to dual nationals in Eritrea. See Dual nationals.
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Eritrea, attacks can’t be ruled out. See Terrorism.
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.
