This page has information on travelling to China.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in China set and enforce entry rules. If you are unsure how China’s entry requirements apply to you, you can contact the Chinese Embassy or one of its consulates in the UK.
All travellers
British nationals need a visa to enter mainland China, including Hainan Island, but not Hong Kong or Macao. Separate Travel Advice for Hong Kong can be found here.
Eligibility for visas for travel to China remains restricted. At present, visas are issued for:
applicants who have obtained an “Invitation Letter” or “Verification Confirmation of Invitation” issued by a provincial foreign affairs office or department of commerce (M or F visa)
applicants who have obtained a “Notification Letter of Foreigners Work Permit” (Z visa)
applicants intending to visit a family member with a Z, M, or F visa
applicants intending to visit a family member who is a Chinese citizen or who holds a Chinese permanent residence permit
applicants (including dependents) who qualify for a high-level talent (R) visa
applicants who qualify for a transport crew (C) visa
All visa applicants aged between 14 and 70 inclusive need to make their visa application in person at a Visa Application Centre. As part of the application process, biometric data (scanned fingerprints) has to be provided. The Chinese Visa Application Centres in London, Manchester and Edinburgh are operating but with limited opening hours. The Application Centre in Belfast remains closed.
Biometric data may be checked/collected by the immigration authorities when entering China to register your entry to the country.
More details, including the process for submitting forms for those still eligible, can be found on the Chinese Embassy website.
It is currently not possible to apply for a visa waiver to transit through China. All travellers entering into China must comply in full with entry requirements; there are no exemptions to this, and transiting airside is not currently permitted.
If you visit Hong Kong from the mainland of China and wish to return to the mainland, you will need a visa that allows you to make a second entry into China.
It is your responsibility to check your visa details carefully. Do not overstay your visa or work illegally. The authorities conduct regular checks and you may be fined, detained or deported (or all three).
If you remain in China longer than 6 months, you may need to get a Residence Permit.
Further details on visa requirements can be found on the Chinese Embassy website.
If you are already in China and have a visa enquiry, please contact the National Immigration Hotline: 12367 (option 2 for English).
COVID-19 Entry Requirements (from 8 January 2023)
From 8 January 2023, China is changing its COVID-19 entry requirements for all travellers entering the country. If you are due to arrive in China on or after 8 January 2023, China time, you will need a negative PCR test. You must submit your negative PCR test result by filling in the Health Declaration Form via the China Customs website, or through the China Customs App or WeChat account. Anyone reporting a positive test result will not be permitted to board a flight to China.
Passengers entering China displaying symptoms of fever, or with an abnormal Health Declaration, may be asked to undertake an antigen test on arrival. Those who test positive will be released to self-quarantine if symptoms are mild, or recommended to go to a medical institution for diagnosis and treatment if symptoms are more severe.
COVID-19 Entry Requirements (before 8 January 2023)
If you are due to arrive in China before 8 January 2023 you will need to submit an online Health Declaration Certificate to the nearest Chinese Embassy or Consulate before you travel. They will need to certify your form and return it to you via email. Entry requirements for China are the same regardless of vaccination status.
More details, including the process for submitting forms for those still eligible, can be found on the Chinese Embassy website.
In order to receive a Health Declaration Certificate (HDC) from the Chinese Embassy, all travellers must provide evidence of one PCR test for COVID-19, with a CT value higher than 35, taken 48 hours before you travel. You can use any legal testing centre that can provide a PCR test and full report. See the list of PCR testing centres.
If you transfer through a third country to China, you must ensure you have completed a PCR test within 48 hours before boarding your final flight into China. You can choose to take this test either at the city of departure or at your transfer airport/city. After taking your PCR test, you must apply for the Health Declaration Certificate. This must be completed before boarding your final flight to China.
Additional guidance on how to obtain a Health Declaration Certificate can be found on the Chinese Embassy website.
Quarantine requirements on arrival (before 8 January 2023)
From 8 January 2023, China is changing its entry requirements for all travellers entering the country. There will no longer be any requirement to quarantine on entry.
If you are due to arrive in China before 8 January 2023, China time, the following quarantine rules still apply.
Following health checks on arrival, you will then need to enter quarantine in a centralised facility for at least 5 days; you may be permitted to complete an additional 3 days of quarantine at home, if you have suitable accommodation. If your accommodation is not deemed suitable, the remaining days of quarantine will be in a centralised facility. The decision on whether quarantine is at a designated centre or if it is possible to quarantine at home rests with local authorities. All quarantine costs will be covered by the traveller. Quarantine requirements can change at short notice may differ between provinces, and you may have to undergo further quarantine in your final destination.
Follow-up tests are likely to take place throughout the quarantine period. The frequency and type of testing may differ from facility to facility. Anyone who tests positive will be moved to a designated quarantine facility. Family members of someone who tests positive or those who have been in close contact, will also likely be moved. Family members may be split up in these circumstances. Quarantine care is not covered by the Chinese government.
Non-residents may be charged for their care. For further information on healthcare in China, please see the Coronavirus section.
At some points of entry, children 14 and over, will be required to quarantine alone, irrespective of whether they test positive or negative for COVID-19.
You may be separated from your child if one of you tests positive for coronavirus. Whilst we cannot prevent this, if it happens to you or is about to happen, you can call +86 (0)10 8529 6600 for 24/7 urgent consular assistance.
For all quarantine arrangements in China:
you are not allowed to leave your designated room for the duration of your quarantine and/or home isolation, unless directed by the authorities. This means you are also unable to leave China for the duration of the quarantine;
depending on the quarantine location, facilities may be basic: there may be no fridge, no air-conditioning, and limited or no internet/wifi;
during your stay you will be responsible for cleaning the room;
if meals are not available at the quarantine location, you will need to arrange food orders for delivery from outside;
larger sized families with two parents may be separated into 2 rooms;
if you are on prescription medication make sure you bring enough with you to last for at least 3-4 weeks together with medical documents certifying that you need to take this medication. See Health for further information.
Failure to comply with the quarantine conditions or testing put in place, or any attempts to deliberately conceal health conditions can result in being sentenced to up to three years in prison. This applies to both Chinese and foreign nationals.
After quarantine
Before arriving into China, you should ensure you have confirmed your accommodation following your mandatory quarantine (for travellers arriving in China before 8 January). Depending on the COVID-19 situation at the time, it can be difficult to find hotel accommodation.
Children and young people
Children aged 5 and under are still required to apply for a Customs Code Health Declaration Form. Children must also follow the same quarantine requirements when arriving before 8 January 2023.
Transiting through a third country to arrive in China
Transiting is when you pass through one country on the way to your final destination.
Transiting through a third country to China is permitted.
If you transfer through a third country to China, you must ensure you have completed a PCR test within 48 hours before boarding your final flight into China. You can choose to take this test either at the city of departure OR at your transfer airport/city. After taking your PCR test, you must apply for the Customs code. This must be completed before boarding your final flight to China.
Exemptions
There are currently no exemptions to quarantine requirements upon arrival in China.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are accepted for entry, airside transit and exit from China. You may need to show a police report indicating how you lost your full passport. If your ETD has been issued in China, you will need an exit visa from the Public Security Bureau before you can leave. This process can take up to 7 working days.
Registering with the Chinese authorities
You must register your place of residence with the local Public Security Bureau within 24 hours of arrival. Chinese authorities enforce this requirement with regular spot-checks of foreigners’ documentation. If you’re staying in a hotel, they will do this for you as part of the check-in process.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
Working in China
You can only work in China if you have a Z visa - tourist and business visit visas do not allow you to do so. You must also hold a valid work permit. The local police regularly carry out checks on companies/schools. Violation of Chinese immigration laws can result in severe penalties, including imprisonment, fines, deportation, a travel ban preventing you from leaving China, and an exclusion order, which prevents you from returning.
Before you leave the UK you should contact the Chinese Embassy to check visa requirements. When submitting your visa application, and when you receive your work permit, check that the details are correct, including the location you’ll be working in. If they’re not, you can be detained.
If you intend to change employer once you’re in China, you should check with the Chinese authorities whether a new visa and work permit is needed before doing so.
Teaching in China
Teaching in China can be a rewarding experience, but before you travel it’s important that you research thoroughly the school or university that is hiring you and are confident that they are following the law. There have been many incidents of teachers being detained and/or deported for working on the wrong visas. It is your responsibility to check you’re working on the correct visa.
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
If you are visiting China, your passport should be valid for 6 months from the date you arrive.
