At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Coronavirus
There is an ongoing outbreak of coronavirus (COVID-19). The virus originated in Wuhan City, Hubei Province, but cases have been confirmed in all provinces of China.
Medical facilities across the country may come under significant pressure. Some are not accepting patients and others have long queues.
The Chinese authorities continue to impose various control and quarantine measures across the country. On 13 March, China issued a new order to ensure compliance with health and quarantine regulations at borders in order to prevent potential outbreaks from imported COVID-19 cases. Refusal to comply with procedures or testing put in place or any attempts to deliberately conceal health conditions can result in being sentenced to up to three years in prison. This applies to both Chinese and foreign nationals.
Centralised observation
As of 16 March, all people arriving into Beijing from overseas (including those without symptoms of coronavirus) must undertake 14 days of centralised observation (quarantine) at places designated by the Beijing authorities. Those undergoing observation will be asked to cover the fees for their period of quarantine. This announcement will affect all British Nationals irrespective of their departure point.
As of 16 March, local authorities in a number of other cities and provinces, including Shanghai and Guangdong, have also announced 14 days of mandatory centralised observation (quarantine) for people who have visited or transited the UK, France, Germany, Spain, the United States, Italy, Iran, Japan, the Republic of Korea and multiple other countries over the preceding 14 days before arriving in China.
Regulations for arrivals from overseas have changed repeatedly and the number of provinces and cities implementing such restrictions is likely to increase and apply to arrivals from further countries.
There have been multiple reports of British and other foreign nationals being put under centralised observation or under home isolation, including following arrival from other destinations beyond those specified above, for example when travelling on the same flights as arrivals who had recently spent time in the listed countries.
Before you travel, check with your travel operator or hotel for any changes or restrictions.
Other measures
Temperature checks are in place at transport hubs, hotels, commercial buildings including restaurants, and other locations. There is extensive screening of arrivals at airports, with processes in some cases taking many hours, including planes being held on the tarmac for lengthy periods before passengers are allowed to disembark.
Some restrictions are in place on entering and leaving residential compounds, including temperature checks and restrictions on access for non-residents.
There are quarantine arrangements for travel between different parts of the country. Beijing requires those returning to the municipality to undergo 14 days of isolation in their place of residence or in centralised observation. Quarantine is enforced at the neighbourhood level, and procedures vary across neighbourhoods.
The possibility that local authorities impose mandatory quarantine in response to fresh outbreaks is high. You should keep up to date with the latest developments and this travel advice.
There are tight controls on entry and exit to villages and townships across the country, and varying degrees of restriction on movement within every province, and individual cities and municipalities.
Some businesses and many tourist attractions have closed. The Ministry of Culture and Tourism has suspended all tour group companies’ activities to prevent further virus spread.
On 23 January the Wuhan authorities closed all transport hubs including airports, railway and bus stations. Some shops and amenities are closed; public events have been cancelled and Chinese authorities have advised the public to avoid crowds. Travel restrictions are in place across Hubei Province. Due to the severity of travel restrictions and difficulty accessing medical assistance, the FCO assisted the departure of British nationals and dependents via charter flights on 31 January and 9 February.
Further information
A large number of airlines, including British Airways and Virgin Atlantic, have announced a suspension of flights to and from mainland China. Other commercial airlines are still operating, but it may become harder to access departure options over the coming weeks.
If you’re in China, Public Health England advise that you should maintain good hand, respiratory and personal hygiene and should avoid visiting animal and bird markets or people who are ill with respiratory symptoms.
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available on the TravelHealthPro website. Keep up to date with local health advice and comply with any additional screening measures put in place by the local authorities.
You can find more information about cases in China on the TravelHealthPro country page.
Healthcare
If you’re on prescription medication, make sure you bring enough with you or have access to a supply in China. Certain medicines may not be available and you may be prohibited from bringing others into the country. For more information and advice, check with your GP and the Embassy of China before travelling.
Healthcare is not free in China and can be very expensive. Make sure you have comprehensive travel and medical insurance covering healthcare and medical evacuation/repatriation for the duration of your stay. For more information, see Medical treatment in China.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 120 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you need treatment.
Health risks
The high levels of air pollution in major urban and industrialised areas in China may aggravate bronchial, sinus or asthma conditions. Children, the elderly and those with pre-existing medical conditions may be especially affected. You can check the pollution index levels for Beijing and other cities on the Air Quality Index website.
Tap water in China is generally not safe to drink. You should drink only bottled water.
The extreme altitude (over 3,000m) of some areas, including Tibet, parts of Xinjiang-Uighur Autonomous Region and Qinghai Province, may cause altitude sickness.
The Chinese authorities react quickly to any outbreaks of any infectious disease, including enforcing quarantine for those showing symptoms.
On 23 May 2018 the US Consulate in Guangzhou issued a health alert following a recent report of abnormal symptoms by a US government employee based in Guangzhou. The British Embassy is seeking further information but at this stage is not aware of any specific risks to British nationals. If you have any concerns about symptoms or medical problems, you should always seek medical advice.
Human infections of avian influenza are being reported in China, particularly among those individuals who have been in close contact with infected birds. Before travelling, you should read more information and follow the prevention advice on Public Health England and NaTHNaC’s websites.
Dengue fever is present in some parts of China mainly during the rainy season. There has been a large increase in cases of dengue fever in Guangdong province. You should take appropriate precautions to avoid being bitten by mosquitoes.
