

ID
Carry your passport with you at all times; a photocopy is not regarded as valid ID. Police carry out random checks, especially during periods of heightened security and major sporting or political events. Failure to produce your ID can lead to a fine or detention. If you renew your passport while you’re in China, you must register your new passport with the authorities promptly or face a fine.
Activities
All foreign nationals traveling to or around areas deemed as “sensitive” might attract greater scrutiny from the authorities, including when taking photographs near sensitive sites and when engaging with political groups or charities.
You should be aware that issuing or supporting political statements critical of China, Chinese authorities, or that are deemed to be politically sensitive, including online, could be viewed as an offense under Chinese law.
Sensitivities can change over time and may heighten around particular dates or events.
Foreigners traveling in mainland China, including but not limited to current or former employees of foreign governments, media outlets, and NGOs, might attract additional scrutiny in and around China, particularly when travelling to areas with large ethnic minority population, including but not limited to Xinjiang (see also the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region section under “Safety and security”).
China’s authorities have previously detained foreign nationals citing breach of national security legislation. Both ‘national security’ and ‘national interest’ appear regularly in Chinese legislation and have broad scope. You may be detained without having intended to break the law. Activity that occurred outside of mainland China – including online activity – could fall under scope of mainland legislation. There is a risk of arbitrary detention – including of British nationals.
There are restrictions on certain religious activities, including preaching and distributing religious materials. The Falun Gong movement is banned in China.
Gambling is illegal in mainland China.
Dual nationality
China does not recognise dual nationality. If you enter China on a Chinese passport or identity card, the British Embassy may not be able to offer you help. If you were born in China to a Chinese national parent you will be considered by the Chinese authorities to have Chinese nationality, and will be treated as a Chinese citizen, even if you used a British passport to enter China. If you have formally renounced Chinese citizenship, you should carry clear evidence that you have done so. The FCDO has published guidance on nationality in China.
Criminal proceedings
Chinese laws and procedures relating to the arrest and detention of suspects of crime are different from in the UK. If you’re suspected of a crime, the Chinese authorities have the power to prevent you from leaving China (by withholding your passport or applying a travel ban) or detaining you for up to 37 days without charge.
We are aware of an increasing number of foreign nationals subject to exit bans. Exit bans may be imposed on individuals involved in commercial or private disputes to prevent them from leaving mainland China. An exit ban can relate to investigations into an individual, their family or an employer, and can be used in criminal and civil matters, including business disputes.
Exit bans are distinct from detention or imprisonment. They are part of the Chinese legal process and can stay in place until resolution of the legal process in question. This means an exit ban may endure for months or years. You may not be aware that you are subject to an exit ban until you try to leave mainland China. If you’re detained on grounds of national security, which is interpreted more broadly than in the UK, you may be detained for up to 6 months before formal arrest and may be denied legal representation before charges are brought..
Drugs
There are extremely severe penalties for drugs offences in China, including the death penalty. The Chinese authorities undertake random drug testing on foreign nationals including on entry to the country. If you test positive, the Chinese authorities can prosecute you regardless of where or when you consumed drugs. Police raids on homes also occur; if drugs are found in your property, penalties can be extremely severe.
There have been increasing incidences of police raids on nightclubs and bars. When such raids take place, patrons will be subject to on the spot drug testing and immigration checks. This may involve being kept at the location, or a secondary location, for several hours whilst hair and urine samples are taken and passport and visa checks conducted. Testing positive to drugs, or being found in breach of your visa conditions, can lead to heavy fines, detention and deportation.
Cyber
The Chinese authorities maintain controls on internet access. Some services, including Google, Facebook, YouTube and Twitter are permanently blocked. Other websites may be blocked from time to time.
China’s cyber security laws are changing and online products and services (eg VPNs) need to be licensed by the Chinese government. More information is available on the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology website (in Mandarin only). Make sure you stay informed and follow Chinese law.
LGBT
Although homosexuality is not prohibited by law, public attitudes are less tolerant than in the UK and public displays of affection may attract negative attention. There’s no provision under Chinese legislation guaranteeing freedom from discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation. You can find information on LGBT life in China on the British Embassy website. See our information and advice page for the LGBT community before you travel.
