

This section has safety advice for regions of China. It only covers regions where FCDO has specific advice.  
You should also read FCDO’s overall travel advice and safety and security advice.
Tibet and the Tibet Autonomous Region (TAR) 
You must get a permit to travel to Tibet and the Tibet Autonomous Region (TAR) through a specialist travel agent in China. You must also travel on an organised tour. The Chinese authorities sometimes stop issuing permits without notice or restrict travel to Tibetan Autonomous Prefectures (TAPs) in neighbouring provinces, even if you have a permit. Check with tour operators or travel agents and other media for information. 
Once in Tibet, avoid large public gatherings. Political and ethnic tensions have historically generated violent protests. Security measures will be tight. Unauthorised gatherings may be dispersed by force. Do not film or take photographs of public security forces or any altercations.
Local authorities will react negatively if you’re found carrying letters or packages from Tibetan nationals to be posted in other countries. 
You must ask before you take photographs in Buddhist monasteries. 
The ability of the British Embassy to help British nationals in the TAR is limited. 
Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region 
Violent unrest in Xinjiang has resulted in deaths. There are allegations that police use lethal force to disperse protests. 
The Chinese authorities have a significant security presence throughout Xinjiang, both as a visible demonstration of state control and to respond quickly and harshly to any unexpected demonstrations or outbreaks of violence. 
There have been widespread arbitrary arrests and extra-judicial detentions in Xinjiang, mainly affecting the local population, particularly Uyghurs and other ethnic minorities. You may be at increased risk if: 
you’re of Turkic descent
you have lived previously in Xinjiang
your appearance or practices are perceived to be Muslim
you publicly participate in Islamic religious practices
you’re a foreign national
Expect airport-style security measures, including passport and security checks, at shopping centres, markets and parks. You may need to give the security forces your phone number, have your photograph taken and explain why you are travelling. Organisations monitoring facilities in Xinjiang are at risk of harassment and detention.     
Always carry your passport and avoid all protests and large crowds. Do not photograph or film protests, large crowds, security officials or installations, or anything of a military nature. Mosques and other religious sites are also considered ‘sensitive’ by the authorities. 
The ability of the British Embassy to help British nationals in Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region is limited. 
China-Myanmar border
There has been escalating violence near the China-Myanmar border. The Chinese authorities reported artillery shells from Myanmar had injured residents and damaged structures within its territory, prompting increased armed patrols along the border. Stray artillery shells have caused injury in Zhenkang county, Yunnan province.
