Coronavirus guidance is being updated.
Read the Prime Minister’s statement for the latest information.

A large number of airlines, including British Airways and Virgin Atlantic, have suspended flights to and from mainland China.
Chinese authorities are asking airlines to further reduce international flights from 29 March. Each domestic airline may only operate one route to any specific country, with no more than one flight per week. International airlines may only maintain one route to China, operating one flight per week. This will severely restrict options to return to the UK.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
For up to date information, check the Civil Aviation Administration of China’s website.
Your journey home: re-entering the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK. You:
need to provide your journey and contact details up to 48 hours before you’re due to arrive in the UK
are not allowed to leave the place you’re staying for the first 14 days you’re in the UK except in very limited situations (known as ‘self-isolating’)
See also the list of people who are exempt from the border rules.
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) also provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
If you cannot leave China
If you cannot leave China at this time, see advice on staying in China during coronavirus.
Further information
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
