

This guide also has safety advice for regions of China.
Terrorism 
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times. 
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in China
Terrorists are likely to try to carry out attacks in China.
Although foreigners have not been specifically targeted, attacks may happen in places visited by foreigners. Take particular care during national holidays and at public transport hubs, and always follow the advice of the local authorities.
Political situation 
China is ruled by a single political party. Though China is open to foreign visitors, you should be aware of political and cultural sensitivities.
Avoid any demonstrations or large gatherings. The Chinese authorities enforce public order strictly, and you may face arrest, detention and deportation. Foreign journalists have been intimidated, assaulted or detained for trying to report on demonstrations.
You may risk becoming a target when there is an anti-foreign feeling or attitude in China. Keep informed of developments and follow the advice of the local authorities. During periods of tension, the authorities may block:
news reporting
access to text-messaging
the internet
international telephone lines
Posting, publishing or supporting political statements critical of China or the Chinese authorities could be viewed as illegal.
Crime
Serious crime against foreign nationals is relatively rare, but incidents can happen. Take care of your belongings at major tourist sites and other busy places, particularly where foreign nationals gather.
Drink spiking and sexual assault
Do not leave drinks unattended or accept drinks from strangers. Personal attacks and sexual assaults are rare, but they can happen, including through drinks being spiked. Women, travelling alone or with female friends, could be at higher risk.
Scams
Beware of scams in popular tourist areas. A common example is the ‘tea tasting’ or ‘massage’ scam. Friendly strangers may invite you to visit a bar, to drink tea or have a massage, and the establishment then demands a large fee. This can be followed by threats, violence or credit card fraud.
Inspect the QR code stickers on rental bicycles carefully before using them. The legitimate barcode can be replaced with a false code, which redirects money to a different account.
Commercial disputes
Before entering a commercial contract in China, take legal advice, both in the UK and in China. Contracts agreed in the UK are not always recognised by Chinese courts.
If you’re involved in or connected to a business or civil dispute, the Chinese authorities may impose an exit ban, which means you cannot leave China until the matter is resolved. British nationals have been detained against their will, intimidated and forced to pay money.
Violence is rare, but it can be threatened. Report any threats of violence to the Chinese police.
Laws and cultural differences 
Personal ID
Always carry your passport with you. Police carry out random checks, especially during periods of heightened security and major sporting or political events. They do not accept printed copies. Failure to produce your ID can lead to a fine or detention. 
National security laws
China’s authorities have detained foreign nationals who break national security laws. Both ‘national security’ and ‘national interest’ appear regularly in Chinese legislation and have broad scope. You may be detained without having intended to break the law. Activity that happened outside of mainland China – including online activity – could fall under the scope of mainland legislation. There is a risk of arbitrary detention, including of British nationals. 
If you’re detained on grounds of national security, you may be held for up to 6 months before formal arrest and denied legal representation before charges are brought.  
Travelling to sensitive areas
All foreign nationals travelling to or around ‘sensitive’ areas might attract more attention from the authorities, including when:
taking photographs
engaging with political groups or charities
engaging with ethnic minority populations
Sensitivities can change over time and may heighten around particular dates or events.
You may attract additional scrutiny while travelling around mainland China if you’re a current or former employee of:
foreign governments
media outlets
NGOs
This list is not exhaustive and may change over time. This is particularly relevant when travelling to areas with large ethnic minority populations, including but not limited to Xinjiang. See Regional risks for more information.
Religious activities and materials
The Chinese authorities formally recognise 5 religions: Buddhism, Catholicism, Islam, Protestantism and Taoism. Only officially registered religious organisations are permitted to carry out religious activities. Even officially registered organisations must observe restrictions on some religious activities, including preaching and distributing religious materials. The Falun Gong movement and others the authorities consider as ‘cults’ are banned in China.
Criminal proceedings      
Chinese laws and procedures relating to the arrest, detention and trial of criminal suspects are different from in the UK. For example:
if you’re detained, only your legal representatives and consular staff from the British Embassy are allowed to visit you until your sentence is passed
there is no trial by jury, the presiding judge or judges will reach a verdict and then pass sentence if they find the accused guilty
if a case goes to trial, the conviction rate is 99%
if an offence does not meet the threshold for criminal proceedings, the police still have the right to sentence someone for up to 15 days administrative detention without trial
The granting of bail is rare, and the criminal process can often last at least a year before a verdict is passed. If bail is granted the accused will not be permitted to leave China.
If you’re suspected of a crime, the Chinese authorities can stop you from leaving China by:
withholding your passport
applying an exit ban
detaining you for up to 37 days without charge
The thresholds for detention and prosecution in China differ from those in Hong Kong.
Exit bans
Foreign nationals can be subject to exit bans. Exit bans can:
be put on people involved in commercial or private disputes to stop them from leaving mainland China
relate to investigations into an individual, their family or an employer
be used in criminal and civil matters, including business disputes
An exit ban can last for months or years or until a legal process is complete. You may not be aware you are subject to an exit ban until you try to leave mainland China.
Money
Cashless payments through smartphone apps such as WeChat Pay or Alipay are extremely common, especially in major cities.
Outside major cities, credit cards are not always accepted and ATMs are limited. It is not possible to exchange Scottish or Northern Irish banknotes.
Counterfeit banknotes (especially 100 renminbi notes) are common, including from ATMs. Banks will not replace them. Check notes carefully before accepting them.
Illegal drugs penalties and prison sentences
There are severe penalties for drugs offences in China, including the death penalty. The Chinese authorities randomly test foreign nationals for drugs, including on entry to the country. If you test positive, the Chinese authorities can prosecute you regardless of where or when you took drugs. Police also raid homes. If drugs are found in your property, penalties can be extremely harsh.
The police can raid nightclubs and bars. If you’re in a bar that’s raided, you will be subject to on-the-spot testing and immigration checks. This may involve:
being kept at the location, or another location, for several hours
giving hair and urine samples
passport and visa checks
Testing positive for drugs, or being found in breach of your visa conditions, can lead to heavy fines, detention and deportation.
Internet access
The Chinese authorities control internet access. Internet access can be limited around key political events and dates. Some services are permanently blocked, including:
Google
Facebook
YouTube
Twitter
Other websites may sometimes be blocked. 
China’s cybersecurity laws state that online products and services (for example, VPNs) need to be licensed by the Chinese government. See the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology (in Mandarin). Make sure you stay informed and follow Chinese law.
Building safety
Fire protection standards in Chinese accommodation are not always the same as in the UK. You should:
check fire precautions, including access to fire exits
make sure your accommodation has a working fire alarm
regularly check fire exits are not blocked
Make sure your accommodation has a working carbon monoxide alarm. People have died of carbon monoxide poisoning due to incorrectly installed gas equipment. 
Energy UK has advice on how to stay safe and the symptoms to look out for.
Teaching in China       
Thoroughly research the school or university that is hiring you in China and make sure you’re confident they are following the law.
LGBT+ travellers
Same-sex relationships are legal in China, but public attitudes are less tolerant than in the UK. Showing affection in public may receive negative attention. There’s no Chinese law guaranteeing freedom from discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation.
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Outdoor activities and adventure tourism  
Hiking
Do not hike alone in isolated areas, including on the Great Wall, due to unpredictable weather conditions and the chance of injuries. Even when hiking in a group, leave your itinerary, mobile number and expected time of return at your hotel or with a third party.      
Transport risks
Road travel 
You must have a Chinese driving licence and valid insurance to drive in China. There are harsh penalties for driving without these, including fines and detention.
Drive with caution in China. Accidents are common due to: 
the poor quality of roads
high volumes of traffic
low driving standards
If you’re involved in a serious traffic accident, call the police. Do not move your vehicle until they arrive but make sure you and your passengers are in a safe place. If there are injuries, you may be held legally responsible for medical costs. You will also be held responsible if you hit a pedestrian. 
There are harsh penalties including fines, detention and imprisonment for driving under the influence of alcohol, even at very low levels. 
Rail travel
You must show your passport to buy a ticket and to board a train in China.
Trans-Mongolian Express trains (Beijing-Moscow via Ulaanbaatar) are known for smuggling. Petty theft on overnight trains is common. Search your compartment and lock the cabin door before the train leaves.
Sea travel
Mariners should avoid the disputed territory between China and other countries in the East China Sea and the South China Sea. There have been incidents of piracy and armed robbery against ships in the area. ReCAAP Information Sharing Centre has further information about piracy and armed robbery.
Taxis
Avoid travelling in unmarked or unmetered taxis, as there have been incidents of sexual assault and robbery against foreign nationals. In marked taxis, make sure someone knows where you are and try to take a note of the taxi’s number.
Disputes over taxi fares can quickly escalate. Any physical altercation could lead to detention regardless of who is to blame. Insist on paying the metered fare and ask for a receipt. The receipt should have the taxi number on it.
Extreme weather and natural disasters
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards.
Earthquakes
China is in an active seismic zone and can experience major earthquakes. Learn what to do before, during and after an earthquake from the US Federal Emergency Management Agency. 
Typhoons
Typhoon Gaemi is currently expected to hit Fujian Province on Thursday 25 July. It may cause destructive winds, flooding and landslides. Monitor local weather reports and follow the advice and instructions of local authorities.
The typhoon season in China normally runs from May to November, affecting southern and eastern coastal regions. Air travel and other forms of transport can be affected. You should monitor the progress of approaching storms on the Japan Meteorological Agency and the China Meteorological Administration websites.
See guidance on tropical cyclones for advice about what to do if you are caught in a typhoon.
Flooding 
Flooding and storms are common between May and November. You should monitor local weather reports and follow the advice and instructions of local authorities, including any evacuation orders.
