Coronavirus guidance is being updated.
Read the Prime Minister’s statement for the latest information.

This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in China as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in China to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in China
Mandatory requirements to check temperatures and use health apps or scan QR codes to prove travel history are in place at transport hubs, hotels, commercial buildings including restaurants, residential compounds and other locations – such locations are also increasingly requiring use of ‘health kit code’ apps to demonstrate health condition and travel history.
Restrictions on movement and quarantine arrangements remain for travel between different parts of the country. Some cities and provinces require travellers from high to medium risk areas to undergo 14 days of isolation in their place of residence or in centralised observation. Quarantine is enforced at the neighbourhood level, procedures vary, it is recommended to check in advance.
The possibility that local authorities impose mandatory quarantine in response to fresh outbreaks is high. There have been reports of individuals who have frequented bars or restaurants where there have been confirmed cases of COVID-19 being mandated to undergo 14 days of centralised quarantine. You should keep up to date with the latest developments and this travel advice.
There have been reports of discrimination against foreign nationals in China as a result of a perceived risk that they might re-import COVID-19. In Guangzhou, in particular, there have been reports of discrimination on the basis of ethnicity, especially of those who are black and minority ethnic, including additional enforced quarantine and testing, as well as hotels and businesses not serving clients.
Passports
Check that your passport is still valid, as you are legally required to have a valid passport in China. If you need to renew or apply for a new British passport, our Visa Application Centres, that accept passport applications abroad, reopened on 1 June. To apply for a new passport please visit our overseas passport application pages. For further information on entry requirements to China, see Entry requirements.
Health
Medical facilities may come under strain in response to localised outbreaks. Designated hospitals have been established in each province to take patients diagnosed with COVID-19. Medical facilities are largely functioning as normal but quarantine restrictions may delay or limit access to such care. View Health for further details on healthcare in China.
For contact details for English speaking doctors, visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in China, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
