This travel advice covers mainland China. For the Special Administrative Regions (SAR) of Hong Kong and Macao, see travel advice for Hong Kong and travel advice for Macao
From 5 January 2023, if you travel (or return) from mainland China to England you must take a pre-departure COVID-19 test. Read the COVID-19 guidance on travel from mainland China for information on what you must do.
Before you travel, check the ‘Entry requirements’ section for China’s current entry restrictions and requirements. These may change with little warning. Monitor this advice for the latest updates and stay in contact with your travel provider.
If you plan to pass through another country to return to the UK, check the travel advice for the country you’re transiting.
China is currently experiencing its largest COVID-19 outbreak, and there may be an increased risk of infection. You should ensure you have a supply of medication for COVID-19 or flu-like symptoms. COVID-19 restrictions have been significantly relaxed, but some restrictions remain in place across mainland China. Even where restrictions have formally been lifted, local authorities and businesses may still require proof of a negative COVID-19 test result to access services. You should check carefully before you travel, as local arrangements are liable to change at short notice.
It is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCDO’s guidance on foreign travel insurance.
The possibility of mandatory localised lockdowns has recently reduced, but implementation of the new procedures is varied and you may still have difficulties accessing medical and other basic services, including food delivery. Shops and day-to-day amenities may be closed without warning. Local control measures are subject to frequent update, and claims of changes to them often circulate on social media. You should only follow the direction of official sources.
There have been reports of residential compounds being locked down as part of local COVID-19 measures. This may include exits, including emergency exits, being locked, and construction of gates or walls with little or no notice. If you are concerned about emergency access to your building, you should escalate this with your local community. In case of emergency, you should call 119 for emergency services and +86 (0)10 8529 6600 for 24/7 urgent consular assistance. You should ensure you have prepared additional food, water and medical supplies in case you are mandated to isolate.
If you test positive for COVID-19 and have mild or no symptoms, you may be permitted to isolate at home. Otherwise, you will be placed into a designated COVID-19 hospital or hotel for centralised care. A combination of these actions is also possible over your isolation period. The decision on whether quarantine is at a designated centre or if it is possible to quarantine at home rests with local authorities. You will remain in isolation until you have tested negative for COVID-19 multiple times, the processes for which can take a number of weeks.
You may be separated from your child if one of you tests positive for coronavirus. Whilst we cannot prevent this, if it happens to you or is about to happen, you can call +86 (0)10 8529 6600 for 24/7 urgent consular assistance. Non-residents may be charged for their care. For further details on healthcare in China, check the Coronavirus section.
There have been reports of discrimination against foreign nationals in China due to a perceived risk that they might re-import COVID-19.
Avoid any demonstrations or large gatherings. The Chinese authorities enforce public order strictly and you may face arrest, detention and/or deportation. Foreign journalists have been intimidated, assaulted or detained for trying to report demonstrations. You may also risk becoming a target yourself when general anti-foreign sentiment runs high. Follow the advice of the local authorities. During periods of tension, some news reporting, access to text messaging, the internet and to international telephone lines may be blocked.
The British Embassy and Consulates-General in Shanghai and Guangzhou provide travel documentary services to British nationals. However, you will need to make an appointment online before coming to a Consulate. See Notarial and Documentary Services Guide. The ability of the British Embassy and Consulates to provide face-to-face assistance within China is currently limited. If you’re in China and need consular support, call +86 (0)10 8529 6600 or the FCDO in London on +44 (0) 207 008 5000.
British nationals need a visa to enter mainland China, including Hainan Island, but not Hong Kong or Macao. See Visas.
You must register your place of residence with the local Public Security Bureau within 24 hours of arrival. See Entry requirements.
In light of protests and demonstrations in Hong Kong, there are reports of greater scrutiny from mainland authorities at border crossings between the mainland and Hong Kong. This includes reports that travellers’ electronic devices have been checked at border crossings. You should be aware that the thresholds for detention and prosecution in China differ from those in Hong Kong. See Local laws and customs and Safety and security.
China has a zero tolerance policy on drugs. There are severe penalties for drugs-related offences including the death penalty. Police often raid bars and nightclubs checking for the use of illicit substances. Raids on private homes have also occurred. See Local laws and customs.
Terrorists are likely to try to carry out attacks in China. Although foreigners haven’t been specifically targeted, attacks may occur in places visited by foreigners. You should take particular care during national holidays or when transiting public transport hubs, and always follow the advice of the local authorities. Previous attacks have targeted public places including on one occasion at a railway station and an open air market in 2014. There have been no recent attacks in the main tourist areas. The risk is higher in the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous region. You should take particular care and remain vigilant when travelling to or within Xinjiang. See Terrorism.
Do not attempt to travel to Tibet without getting the correct permits. The Tibetan Autonomous Region (TAR) can be closed to foreigners without notice. See Tibet and the Tibet Autonomous Region.
Police have the power to detain or prevent you from leaving China if you’re involved in or connected to a business and/or civil dispute. See Local laws and customs and Safety and security.
China doesn’t recognise dual nationality. If you have both British and Chinese nationality you may be treated as a Chinese citizen by local authorities, even if you enter China on your British passport. If this is the case, the British Embassy may not be able to offer you consular assistance. The FCDO has published guidance on nationality in China. If you’ve formally renounced Chinese citizenship, you should carry evidence that you have done so. See Local laws and customs.
High levels of air pollution can occur in major urban and industrialised areas in China, and may aggravate bronchial, sinus or asthma conditions. Children, the elderly and those with pre-existing medical conditions may be especially affected. You can check the pollution index levels for many cities in real time. See Health.
The typhoon season in China normally runs from May to November. You should monitor the progress of approaching storms and follow the advice of the local authorities. See Natural disasters.
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.
The Overseas Business Risk service offers information and advice for British companies operating overseas on how to manage political, economic, and business security-related risks.
