Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Thailand on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
You can find the latest information on COVID-19 case numbers in Thailand on the Department of Disease Control website.
You should contact Thailand’s Ministry of Public Health for information on testing facilities.
You should also ask your airline if they have any additional rules or requirements before you travel.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Thailand.
Returning to the UK
Travelling from and returning to the UK
Check what you must do to travel abroad and return to England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
If you plan to pass through another country to return to the UK, check the travel advice for the country you’re transiting.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Thailand
Domestic travel options within Thailand are available but remain subject to disease control measures. These may include restrictions on movement between provinces.
If you are taking an internal flight in Thailand, you may be asked to download an app or complete additional travel documentation.
You will be required to wear a face mask and follow other disease control measures when using public transport, including planes, trains, buses and taxis. In some provinces, public transport may stop earlier than normal or have less capacity than normal.
COVID-related restrictions in Thailand
An emergency decree is currently in place. This includes instructions that you must not:
enter high risk areas
hoard essential goods
attend public gatherings
propagate false information
Until further notice you must also wear a mask in all indoor and outdoor public spaces in Thailand and in vehicles if you are with others. If you do not wear a mask, you may have to pay a fine.
The Thai government also advises that you should avoid unnecessary travel and crowded places, and scan the ‘Thai Chana’ QR code where available.
A number of disease control measures at national and local levels are also in place. These include a colour rating for each of Thailand’s 76 provinces based on the number of COVID-19 cases.
In some provinces, measures may include restrictions on drinking alcohol in restaurants and gathering in groups. You are advised to follow all preventative and disease control measures to minimise risks and avoid penalties.
Measures change frequently. You should check the current situation with local authorities and the Thai government’s Facebook page and PR website.
Accommodation
Hotel and private rental accommodation is available throughout Thailand. However, some hotels remain closed so we advise you to contact hotels directly when booking.
The majority of hotels will ask to take your temperature on arrival and ask you to provide information on your recent travel history and any symptoms you may have related to COVID-19. You may also need to follow other disease control measures.
Some services and facilities in hotels may not be available e.g. leisure facilities.
Health
In the areas most affected by COVID-19 there is increasing pressure on medical services. You may find it difficult to access COVID-19 testing and medical care. If this happens and you need help urgently, you can call the Embassy on +66 (0)2 305 8333.
For contact details for English speaking doctors, visit our list of healthcare providers.
If you think you have COVID-19 symptoms, you should call the Thai COVID-19 Hotline on 1422.
If you need a COVID-19 test, Thailand’s Ministry of Public Health has compiled a list of private and government-managed testing facilities. These will provide you with a test and normally contact you afterwards with the result. Authorities may also contact you as part of their tracing process.
Policies on what happens when you test positive vary significantly and can include mandatory quarantine in a hospital for long periods. You should ensure that you understand your health care provider’s policies before you take a test as these will include where you quarantine and receive medical care if you test positive.
If you test positive for COVID-19 and have mild symptoms or are asymptomatic, Thai authorities recommend that you self-isolate at home. Decisions on your quarantine period and further medical care should be made by the doctor who is attending you. This also applies to school age children. The National Health Security Office (NHSO) provides medical support and services for home isolation. To register, you can call the 1330 hotline. More information can be found on the PR Thai Government Facebook page.
If you have more severe symptoms Thai public health regulations require that you quarantine at either a hospital, a repurposed hotel with medical capabilities or field hospital.
If you test positive for the Omicron variant your case should be handled in the same way as other forms of COVID-19, but there may be significant variation in treatment in different hospitals and care providers.
You may be separated from your children if they test positive for COVID-19. If this happens and you need help, you can call the Embassy on +66 (0)2 305 8333.
There may also be specific measures in place that impact on maternity services in some hospitals, including quarantine for newborn babies and C-sections as the preferred form of delivery. In most cases, these are recommendations only but in some hospitals they are mandatory. You should ensure you understand your health care provider’s policies so you can make the choices that work best for you. The WHO has useful guidance on COVID and maternity/post-natal care.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Thailand.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Thailand
Wherever possible British nationals should aim to be vaccinated in the country where they live. As further information is available about the national vaccination programme, this page will be updated. Sign up to get email notifications.
A national vaccination programme is in place in Thailand.
If you are resident in Thailand you can register for a vaccine at any hospital that holds your health records. Registration online and at hospitals that do not hold your records may also be possible. You can find more information on how to register for vaccines in our Living in Thailand page
Short and longer-term visitors may not be eligible under this scheme.
In some areas there are limited supplies of vaccines and registration and vaccination programmes can change. You should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider in Thailand and check the current situation with local authorities and the Thai government’s Facebook page and PR website.
The only vaccines that are being used in the national programme are AstraZeneca, Sinovac, Sinopharm, and Pfizer-BioNTech, although others such as Moderna may be available privately.
The Ministry of Public Health has approved a variety of cross-vaccine formulas. You should contact your local vaccine site for more information.
When you have received your vaccine, you can register on the “Mor Phrom” application to get the digital vaccine certificate. Instructions can be found on the PR Thai Government Facebook page.
Booster vaccinations are available in some areas. Further information is available from PR Thai Government Facebook pages.
Find out more, including about the vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad webpage.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
Sign up for travel advice alerts and follow the British Embassy on Twitter and Facebook.
