The information on this page covers the most common types of travel and reflects the UK government’s understanding of the rules currently in place. Unless otherwise stated, this information is for travellers using a full ‘British Citizen’ passport.
The authorities in the country or territory you’re travelling to are responsible for setting and enforcing the rules for entry. If you’re unclear about any aspect of the entry requirements, or you need further reassurance, you’ll need to contact the Embassy, High Commission or Consulate of the country you’re travelling to.
You should also consider checking with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Restrictions in response to coronavirus
Entry and transit
At present foreign nationals are only permitted to enter Thailand if they meet one of the following criteria:
If you are on a diplomatic or consular mission, belong to an International Organisations, a representative of governments performing their duties in Thailand, or have permission from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This includes families. You must have a fit-to-fly health certificate (issued no more than 72 hours before travelling) and a Certificate of Entry issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. If suspected of carrying COVID-19, you may be denied entry into the country.
a) if you hold a work permit or have already been granted permission from the Thai government to work in Thailand or b) if you have permanent residence in Thailand. If you fall into one of these two categories and have an urgent need to travel, you should contact the Royal Thai Embassy or Royal Thai Consulate in your country of departure (if you are in the UK, email rtelondon@thaiembassyuk.org.uk) to explain your circumstances at least 10 working days before your proposed date of travel. You will need a Certificate of Entry issued by the Royal Thai Embassy or the Royal Thai Consulate-General in your country of departure, a fit-to-fly health certificate (issued no more than 72 hours before travelling), a completed Declaration Form obtained from the Royal Thai Embassy or Consulate General in your country of departure, and proof of health insurance covering all medical expenditure up to USD 100,000 minimum while in Thailand. When you get to Thailand, you will be subject to a 14-day state quarantine at a Thai government-designated facility at your own expense. If suspected of carrying COVID-19, you may be denied entry into the country
If you have been exempted by the Prime Minister or Permanent Secretary of Ministry of Foreign Affairs, under certain conditions and for a prescribed time period
If you are a pilot-in-command and crew members – with a fixed travel schedule
If you are a carrier of necessary cargoes. You must leave the country immediately after your mission is completed
If you are the spouse, child or parent of a Thai national
If you are seeking medical treatment in Thailand (except treatment for COVID-19), or are caring for someone seeking medical treatment in Thailand. You will need a Certificate of Entry issued by the Royal Thai Embassy or the Royal Thai Consulate-General in your country of departure, a fit-to-fly health certificate , a medical certificate indicating that you have tested negative for COVID-19 (RT-PCR test) within 72 hours before your departure, proof of health insurance covering all medical expenditure, including for COVID-19, up to USD 100,000 minimum while in Thailand, written confirmation from your hospital in your country of departure stating the need for your medical treatment, and written confirmation that your destination hospital will admit you for quarantine and treatment, and that their quarantine facilities comply with official rules. When you get to Thailand, you will be subject to a 14-day quarantine in hospital at your own expense. If suspected of carrying COVID-19, you may be denied entry into the country
If you are an international student or the parent/guardian of an international student. You will need a Certificate of Entry issued by the Royal Thai Embassy or the Royal Thai Consulate-General in your country of departure, a fit-to-fly health certificate , a medical certificate indicating that you have tested negative for COVID-19 (RT-PCR test) within 72 hours before your departure, proof of health insurance covering all medical expenditure, including for COVID-19, up to USD 100,000 minimum while in Thailand, and written confirmation that the quarantine facilities you intend to use on arrival in Thailand comply with official rules. When you get to Thailand, you will be subject to 14-day quarantine at your own expense, and you will be tested twice for COVID-19 during this time. If suspected of carrying COVID-19, you may be denied entry into the country
If you hold a Foreigners work permit (WP3) and/or BOI certificate you should contact your local Royal Thai Embassy or consulate for a permit to travel to Thailand. The Civil Aviation Authority of Thailand (CAAT) will arrange seats aboard repatriation flights for eligible passengers.
You should keep up to date with the latest information on the websites of the Civil Aviation Authority of Thailand, and the Ministry of Public Health.
Residents currently outside Thailand
If you have a Thai resident visa and normally reside in Thailand but are now overseas and cannot return to Thailand within the required year of departure, you will be granted an extension to your compulsory return deadline. However, you are required to return to Thailand as soon as the situation improves.
On arrival
Certain categories of foreigners arriving in Thailand will be tested for COVID-19 on entry and again during quarantine – see Entry section above.
Quarantine requirements
Different quarantine requirements apply to different categories of arrivals. See Entry section above.
Data collection
You may be required to download the Thai Chana COVID-19 tracking app on arrival in Thailand.
Visa extensions
The Thai government has announced that they will grant a further automatic extension to 31 July for visas of all types expiring on or after 26 March 2020. You do not need a supporting letter from your Embassy. Interpretation may vary in different areas - check with your local immigration office. For further information visit the Thai Immigration website or call the Immigration Bureau hotline on 1178.
It is unlikely you will be able to renew a visa by leaving Thailand and returning as Thailand has introduced further measures at its borders. Stay informed and plan accordingly.
If you are required to provide notification of staying in Thailand and your stay permit expires between 26 March and 31 July 2020 it will be automatically extended. However, when the situation improves or returns to normal, you will need to follow normal processes under the instruction of the Immigration Bureau.
Check that your passport is still valid, as you are legally required to have a valid passport in Thailand. Any visa you hold will become invalid from your passport expiry date. If you need to renew or apply for a new British passport, this facility is now available again through our partner agency VFS: see Overseas British passport applications.
More information
If you have any queries about visas or entry requirements, check with the Royal Thai Embassy, Thai Immigration Authority and Thai Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
Thai authorities may introduce further measures. You can monitor the latest updates from Thailand’s Ministry of Public Health website.
Regular entry requirements
Passport validity
Your passport must have at least 6 months’ validity remaining from your date of entry into Thailand. Entry to Thailand is normally refused if you have a passport which is damaged or has pages missing.
If you’re a dual national, you must depart Thailand on the same nationality passport you used to enter. If not, you may experience difficulties as you pass through immigration.
Visas
Under normal circumstances, British passport holders arriving by air or land can enter Thailand for 30 days without a visa (a ‘visa exemption’). If you need to stay longer, it’s possible to extend your stay once for up to 30 days. You must apply for the extension before your visa exemption period ends.
You can only enter Thailand through a land border using the 30 day visa exemption twice per calendar year. To cross more frequently, you’ll need to get the appropriate visa in advance of travelling. This doesn’t apply if arriving by air. For more information, contact the nearest Thai embassy or consulate.
If you plan to stay in Thailand for longer than 30 days, are going to work, or use land borders regularly you must get the appropriate visa before you travel.
The only legal way of getting a new visa, entry permit or extension of stay is from a Thai Embassy or Consulate, an Immigration Officer at a point of entry into Thailand, or one of the Immigration Offices around the country. Visas issued by visa shops, travel agents or by any other means are likely to be illegal and lead to criminal proceedings.
If you stay beyond the period of your visa (‘overstay’), you’ll be fined 500 baht per day up to a maximum of 20,000 baht. You also risk being held in detention, fined, deported at your own expense and banned from re-entering Thailand. The enforcement of penalties for overstaying is strict and conditions in detention centres can be harsh. Deportation by the Thai authorities can be a lengthy process and you will also be banned from re-entering Thailand for up to 10 years.
If you’re living or staying in Thailand on a long-term visa, immigration rules can be complex and are subject to change. At present, if you stay in Thailand long-term, you must report to immigration authorities every 90 days. If you change your address, you must notify your local police station within 24 hours. If you travel to another province for more than 24 hours, you must report to the local immigration office or police station within 24 hours, and again report to your local immigration office within 48 hours of returning to your home address. It is your responsibility to ensure you meet the requirements of your visa. Stay informed and contact your local immigration office for more information.
If you have any queries about visas or entry requirements, check with the Royal Thai Embassy or Thai Immigration Authority.
Proof of onward travel and funds
Immigration officials in Thailand may ask you for proof of onward travel (e.g. a return or onward air ticket). You should make all reservations before travelling to Thailand. Some airlines have refused to board passengers without evidence of onward travel.
Immigration officials may also ask for evidence of adequate finances and have refused entry to people who could not show this. This is not defined in law and can be interpreted in a number of ways.
Employment
To work in Thailand you will need a work permit or business visa. Failure to observe this rule can lead to arrest and deportation.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are accepted for entry, airside transit and exit from Thailand. If you’re planning to enter Thailand using a UK ETD, you should contact the nearest Thai Embassy or Consulate before you travel to seek advice about whether a visa is required. If you’re requesting a two-way ETD from Thailand, you must provide proof that you have a non-immigrant visa.
