At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest health advice on travelling to Thailand from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. This has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy whilst in the country. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re in Thailand.
Some prescribed and over the counter medicines that are available in the UK are considered controlled substances in Thailand. Restrictions tend to apply to medication containing narcotic and pyschotropic substances. You can find more information on the website of the Royal Thai Embassy and checking the medication guidance for travellers. Further guidance can also be found on the NaTHNaC website on best practice when travelling with medicines.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Coronavirus
There is an ongoing outbreak of coronavirus (COVID-19), including in Thailand.
The Thai authorities have introduced a number of screening, surveillance, prevention and control measures to limit the spread of the virus, and additional measures may be introduced. You should comply with any additional measures put in place by the local authorities.
At present there are measures in place for people travelling to Thailand from the United Kingdom, China (including Hong Kong and Macau), Italy, Iran, South Korea, Denmark, France, Germany, Japan, the Netherlands, Norway, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United States of America.
Effective from 21 March, Thailand will introduce additional screening measures for passengers flying to Thailand.
Before passengers check-in, airlines will be required to check whether they have recently travelled to the countries above. If a passenger has visited, or is flying from, one of those countries, then they will need to present a medical certificate signed by a medical professional confirming no evidence of the coronavirus infection in the previous 72 hours, and also present evidence of travel insurance of no less than US$100,000 which covers COVID-19. Failure to meet these requirements will mean passengers are not permitted to board their flight.
Upon arrival in Thailand, passengers will be asked to present their health certificate and insurance details to disease control officials. Passengers will also need to present a completed T8 form with their name, nationality, passport number, active mobile phone number and e-mail address, or show that they have filled out this same information on the ‘AOT Airport of Thailand’ mobile application. Disease control officials may decide that some passengers be subject to a 14 day quarantine or self-isolation period within Thailand. You are advised to keep up to date with the latest information on boarding procedures on the website of the Civil Aviation Authority of Thailand, and the website of the Ministry of Public Health for information about quarantine and self-isolation procedures.
Thai authorities may introduce further measures. You can monitor the latest updates from Thailand’s Ministry of Public Health on its website, and refer to their Q&A for travellers.
If you’re returning to the UK from Thailand, consult the latest advice from the Department of Health and Social Care on actions you should take.
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
You can find more information about cases in Thailand on the TravelHealthPro website.
Health risks
Rabies has been reported in domestic and wild animals, and there have been several fatalities. You should avoid direct contact with animals and take precautions to protect yourself.
There are excellent private hospitals in Thailand but they can be expensive. Public hospitals and clinics in Thailand do not always meet UK standards, particularly outside Bangkok. Many hospitals require guarantee of payment. Make sure you have adequate health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost.
UK health authorities have classified Thailand as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For information and advice about the risks associated with the Zika virus, visit the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
Dengue fever is present in Thailand and the number of reported cases is rising, some of these have been fatal. You should take steps to avoid being bitten by mosquitoes.
Air quality
High levels of air pollution can occur in major urban areas, including in Bangkok and Chiang Mai, which is also affected by regional smoke haze. The high pollution and PM 2.5 counts, occasionally enter the unhealthy and hazardous levels. This may aggravate bronchial, sinus or asthma conditions. Children, the elderly and those with pre-existing medical conditions may be especially affected. You can check air quality levels for many cities in real time on the World Air Quality Index website.
During March and April there is often smoke haze and resulting poor air quality and pollution across parts of the north, north-east and south of Thailand, this can also close regional airports due to visibility. Keep up-to-date with local information and seek medical advice.
Medical treatment
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 1669 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
Medications which are only available on prescription in the UK like Viagra, Cialis and Valium are readily available in popular nightlife districts across Thailand. Medication sold on the street may not be genuine and/or may have been stolen. Taking medication without medical advice or a prescription can have serious health consequences.
