FCDO advises against all but essential travel to parts of Thailand.
This section has safety advice for regions of Thailand. It only covers regions where FCDO has specific advice.
You should also read FCDO’s overall travel advice and safety and security advice.
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to the following provinces due to regular terrorist attacks in these areas:
Pattani province
Yala province
Narathiwat province
Southern Songkhla province, except for the areas north of and including the A43 road between Hat Yai and Sakom; and the areas north-west of the train line which runs between Hat Yai and Padang Besar
Hat Yai to Padang Besar train line, which was attacked in 2022
Martial law is in place in most areas in these provinces, which means security forces have greater security enforcement and investigative powers. Previous terrorist attacks include arson, bombings, shootings and grenade attacks. Security forces and government officers are the main target of attacks. However, hotels, shops, supermarkets, and transport infrastructure and trains have been targets.
Attacks can be indiscriminate, including places visited by foreigners. Take care in public places, follow the advice of local authorities and monitor local media reports.
Cambodian border
Take extra care in border areas and follow the instructions of local authorities. The line of the international border near the Preah Vihear temple is disputed by Cambodia and Thailand. There are unexploded landmines in the border area. Stay on marked paths especially around Ta Krabey.
Stay alert to the local situation when travelling anywhere near to the border with Cambodia, and at land crossings between the 2 countries.
Laos border
Not all land border crossings into Laos are open to foreigners. You may need to get a Laos visa before you arrive to cross the border. Follow the instructions of local authorities and be vigilant in the border areas.
Myanmar border
The security situation in Myanmar is unpredictable and liable to change without notice. See travel advice for Myanmar.
