Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

There are still commercial options to return to the UK from Thailand.
If you live in the UK and are currently visiting Thailand, you’re strongly advised to return now by commercial means. Don’t risk getting stranded.
UK special charter flights will only operate for priority countries where commercial flights are not possible. You should not assume that these flights will become available in Thailand because commercial routes are operating.
Next steps
If you are planning to leave Thailand you should go now.
Seats are still regularly available on flights from Bangkok to the UK. You should aim to get to the airport at least 2 hours before the flight is due to depart, earlier if you are on standby. You should also check the policies your airline and insurance provider have about coronavirus, including whether special requirements are in place such as providing a medical health certificate during the check-in procedure. You can get daily updates on these by registering with the Embassy at Thailand.Registration@fco.gov.uk. To allow resources to be focused on those who need it, email this address to de-register once you are safely back in the UK.
The British Embassy is also issuing regular updates on Twitter and Facebook with the latest available information on departure options from Thailand.
If you’re trying to get back to the UK and need financial help, see the FCO’s guide on financial assistance.
The current disruption is likely to last for some time, so if you decide to remain in Thailand you should plan for this and make sure you have enough money, somewhere to stay and access to healthcare.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Travelling to the airport
There is currently a nationwide curfew in force between 10pm and 4am each day. There is an exemption for people travelling to the airport, but you may be stopped and asked to show proof that you have a flight. Make sure you have your boarding pass or flight booking.
Domestic air travel options within Thailand are decreasing. If you intend to leave Thailand and need to take a domestic flight to reach your international airport, you should check with your provider and make plans now, moving forward your travel if necessary.
Some provinces, including Phuket, Phang-nga and Krabi, have closed their provincial borders or imposed other internal restrictions. Many bus, train and boat routes are also closing or closed. If you intend to leave Thailand you should ensure that you can get to your international departure airport, moving forward your travel if necessary. If you are finding it difficult to reach your international departure airport you can get advice by registering at Thailand.Registration@fco.gov.uk.
Visa extension applications
British Nationals who hold visas expiring on or after 26 March 2020 will now be granted an automatic extension until 30 April 2020. You do not need to visit an immigration office to extend your visa. This includes all types of short-term and long-term visas. The British Embassy visa extension letter service has therefore been suspended.
Further information can be found on the Thai Immigration website.
Help and support
If you need to return to the UK but can’t, you should immediately send the information below to Thailand.Registration@fco.gov.uk:
full name
date of birth
passport number
contact email and telephone number
location and nearest airport
date of entry into Thailand
By knowing the number and location of British nationals who may need help in Thailand, the British Embassy can provide support by asking airlines to maintain routes to the UK or consider alternative options.
The Embassy cannot provide further information or advice on departure options over the phone.
Arrival in the UK
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Further information
Sign up for travel advice alerts and follow the British Embassy on Twitter and Facebook.
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
