!
Warning
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to parts of Thailand.

This guide also has safety advice for regions of Thailand.
Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Thailand
Terrorists are likely to try to carry out attacks in Thailand.
There are regular terrorist attacks in the 4 provinces in the southern tip of Thailand by the border with Malaysia. The Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) advises against all but essential travel to these provinces.
Martial law is in place in most areas in these provinces, which means security forces have greater security enforcement and investigative powers. See Regional risks.
However, terrorist attacks could take place anywhere in Thailand. Attacks could be indiscriminate, including in tourist destinations. Stay aware of your surroundings, keep up to date with local media reports and follow the advice of local authorities.
Targets might include:
security forces
government offices
locations popular with tourists and foreigners
hotels
shops and supermarkets
transport infrastructure
Political situation
The political situation can be unpredictable and has led to periods of civil and political unrest. Avoid protests, political gatherings, demonstrations and marches.
Crime
Protecting yourself and your belongings
To reduce your personal risk:
carry your valuables and cash securely to guard against pickpocketing
beware of bag-snatchers, especially on motorbikes
take care when travelling in open transport like tuk-tuks
avoid sleeping on buses and trains – people have had items taken from bags while asleep
Do not hand your passport over as a guarantee, for example to motorcycle or jet-ski rental businesses. Companies may hold on to passports against claimed damage.
Violent crime
Violent crime, including gun crime, rarely involves tourists. However, several foreign nationals were victims of gun violence in Bangkok in 2018. Take care when travelling in unfamiliar areas and avoid walking through isolated areas alone, especially at night.
Sexual assault
Violent sexual assaults and unprovoked attacks can happen in tourist areas across Thailand. Attacks are most common during full moon parties or similar events, and near bars late at night.
Drink spiking, alcohol and assaults
Drink spiking and drug-assisted sexual assault does happen in tourist areas around Thailand, with male and female victims. Do not leave your drinks unattended or accept drinks from strangers. Pre-arrange your transport home so you do not have to accept lifts in unlicensed vehicles.  
Drinks served in bars are often stronger than those in the UK. Alcohol and drugs can make you less alert and more vulnerable to accidents, injuries, robbery and assaults.
Methanol poisoning
Alcoholic drinks containing methanol have killed people and caused serious illness. There is a risk of methanol poisoning from home brewed alcohol or counterfeit replicas of well-known alcohol brands. Affected drinks may include:
local spirits, including rice wine
spirit-based mixed drinks such as cocktails
counterfeit brand-name spirits
To protect yourself from methanol poisoning you should:
buy alcoholic drinks only from licensed liquor stores, bars, clubs, restaurants, and hotels
avoid home-made alcoholic drinks
check bottle seals are intact
check labels for poor print quality or incorrect spelling
If the label, smell or taste seems wrong, do not drink the alcohol. These are signs it is illegal and could contain methanol. TravelHealthPro lists the symptoms of methanol poisoning.
Seek urgent medical attention if you or someone you are travelling with show signs of methanol poisoning.
Bank card fraud
Be aware of card fraud. Do not lose sight of your card during transactions. There have been incidents of ATM skimming. Use an ATM in a bank and always protect your PIN.
Job scams
Be wary of job offers that appear too good to be true. People have arrived in Thailand and been illegally transported to neighbouring countries on the promise of high-paying jobs, which turn out to be scams. When you re-enter Thailand you may then be detained while your immigration status is validated.
There have been incidents of:
passports confiscated by scammers
victims being held in poor living conditions
coercion into undertaking wider online scamming activity
pressure to make large payments to be released from sham jobs
Laws and cultural differences
The British Embassy in Bangkok’s video talks about what to be aware of when living or travelling in Thailand:
Facebook – visiting Thailand video
X – visiting Thailand video
Criticising the Thai monarchy
Criticising the Thai monarchy (‘lèse-majesté’) is illegal. The law can be interpreted broadly and carries a long prison sentence. British and Thai journalists, human rights defenders and members of the public have faced charges for making political comments or sharing articles online that could be interpreted as being negative towards the institution of the Thai monarchy. The law also covers any accusations about members of the Thai Royal Family, past and present.   
Images on social media
Posting images of people drinking alcohol or wearing clothing considered inappropriate can be illegal. Both the person who uploaded the images and the people in them could be fined or imprisoned.
Buying property in Thailand
Buying property in Thailand is not straightforward. Make sure you understand local laws and consult a lawyer before making financial commitments. British people have been victims of property scams.
Drones
It is illegal to fly a drone in Thailand if it is not registered. You must register your drone with Thailand’s National Broadcasting and Telecommunications Commission (NBTC) within 30 days of entering Thailand or purchasing a drone in Thailand even if you do not intend to fly it.
The regulations apply to all drones, including those for recreational use. The fine for an unregistered drone with the NBTC is 100,000 baht or five years imprisonment or both.
Gambling – playing cards
Thailand has strict laws on gambling. Under the Playing Cards Act (1943) it is illegal to carry over one hundred and twenty playing cards. Violation of the Act could lead to prosecution, a fine, or even imprisonment.
Personal ID
Police may ask to check your passport. If you do not have it with you, you could be asked to produce it within 24 hours at a police station. Usually, a copy of the photo page of your passport will be sufficient. 
Smoking and e-cigarette bans
It’s illegal to smoke in public with a fine of up to 5,000 Thai baht. E-cigarettes are illegal. You could be fined or imprisoned for carrying or using them.
Illegal drugs and prison sentences
Thailand has strict laws against drug use, possession and trafficking. Possessing small quantities of illegal substances can lead to heavy fines or imprisonment. Possessing Class A drugs can lead to the death penalty.
Conditions in prisons and other detention facilities in Thailand are harsh, with limited access to healthcare. Detainees have died in custody.
Some British nationals have suffered severe psychiatric problems because of drug use, sometimes leading to suicide.
Cannabis
Do not carry cannabis out of Thailand. While low-strength cannabis is legal in Thailand, cannabis of any strength may be illegal in other countries you travel to.
Criminal gangs are known to pressure people into carrying drugs. Always pack your own luggage and do not carry anything through customs for someone else. British nationals have been caught carrying cannabis out of Thailand.
There have been arrests of British nationals caught transiting through airports in other countries. Many international airports have excellent technology and security for detecting illegal items, which may be used to scan the baggage of transiting passengers.  
If you are caught carrying cannabis in other countries, you can be given:  
a long prison sentence
in some countries, the death penalty
Legal processes before court hearings can be long and expensive. It can take many months for a case to go to trial.
In some countries, you can be arrested if you have traces of cannabis on your clothing, baggage or within you. Random blood and urine tests can be taken to see if it is within you.
It is illegal to take cannabis out of Thailand without the appropriate export permissions issued by the authorities. Illegally carrying cannabis, particularly large quantities, can lead to heavy fines or imprisonment in Thailand.
LGBT+ travellers
Thailand is generally a safe place for LGBT+ travellers. Thailand legalised same-sex marriage in January 2025. Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Wildlife, animal products and souvenirs
It’s illegal to buy, sell, kill or capture any protected wild animal or trade its parts without a licence.  
Outdoor activities and adventure tourism
Elephant treks
Elephant treks can be dangerous, especially if elephants are mistreated or not handled properly. Use a reliable, licensed tour guide. British nationals have been seriously injured and killed because handlers have lost control of the elephant.
Swimming safety
Take care when swimming off coastal areas, especially during monsoon season. People have drowned in strong riptides. Thailand has lifeguards on duty at designated beaches and operates a flag system for safe swimming. Follow all warning signs, especially red flags.
See water safety on holiday from the Royal Life Saving Society.
Jellyfish can swim close to the shore, particularly during the rainy season from May to October. Jellyfish stings can be fatal. Take local advice from your hotel and dive centres.
Take care when swimming, diving, kayaking or white water rafting in rivers or close to waterfalls, particularly in the rainy season. Currents can be extremely strong.
See ⁠watersports safety advice from the Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents (ROSPA).
Scuba diving
Diving schools may have limited resources and do not always observe safety and maintenance standards. Always: 
ask to see a dive operator’s credentials
check the conditions on your insurance policy – some policies require dive instructors to have certain qualifications
make sure safety equipment looks to be in good condition
make sure oxygen is available on the boat
ask about safety precautions, including the ability to transfer divers to a hyperbaric chamber
If you have not had any previous diving experience, check what to do if something goes wrong, including how to call for help while at sea. 
Transport risks
Road travel
Thailand has a high number of road traffic accidents, particularly with motorcycles. The World Health Organisation (WHO) ranks Thailand as one of the world’s deadliest countries for fatalities on motorcycles.
If you are planning to drive in Thailand, see information on driving abroad. You’ll need to carry both the 1968 version of the international driving permit (IDP) and your UK driving licence while driving. You cannot buy an IDP outside the UK, so get one before you travel.
If you live in Thailand, you can apply for a Thai driving licence using your UK driving licence.
Car and motorcycle hire
Motorcycles and scooters for hire in beach resorts are often unregistered and cannot be used legally on a public road. Before you hire a vehicle, make sure your travel insurance covers you and check the small print of the lease agreement. Do not hand over your passport as a guarantee against returning a motorcycle or scooter.
By law, you must wear a helmet when riding a motorcycle.
If you drive a car or ride a motorcycle in Thailand without a valid licence, it could invalidate your travel insurance and you’ll be unable to claim if you have an accident or injury.
Sea travel
There are many passenger boat services operating between the mainland and islands. Boats can sink or collide, which has led to fatalities, including of British nationals. Accidents are usually due to:
overloading
poor maintenance
rough seas, particularly during monsoon season
Extreme weather and natural disasters
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards.
Rainy season
The rainy season is generally from May to October. In Koh Samui and the south-east of Thailand it is from November to March. However, the rainy season has been more unpredictable recently.
Heavy storms cause disruption including flooding and landslides. Lakes, caves and waterfalls are particularly at risk of dangerous flash flooding.
Follow the Thai Meteorological Department for weather warnings.
Earthquakes
Earthquakes and tremors are a risk in northern Thailand. Earthquake Track lists recent activity.
The US Federal Emergency Management Agency website has advice about what to do before, during and after an earthquake.
