Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Thailand as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
For information on entering or transiting through Thailand, see Entry requirements
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Thailand to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19). There have been several cases of foreign nationals being arrested and fined or sentenced to jail for breaching curfew restrictions.
Moving around in Thailand
Travel between provinces
Since 26 March, the Thai authorities have been implementing measures to deter travelling between provinces. Most internal bus and train routes are closed and there are some restrictions on travel between provinces. Travellers moving between provinces may also be required by local authorities to undergo quarantine on arrival in a new province so you should check the requirements for your destination.
If you are taking an internal flight in Thailand, you must download the AOT Airports App and complete a T8 Travel Form. Some regional airports are temporarily closed – please double-check before travelling. There are a number of road checkpoints in place across Thailand so you should carry a passport as proof of identification when in public.
Provincial authorities may enforce measures which are stricter or different to those in other areas, including making masks compulsory at all times, longer curfews or closing hotels and beaches. Some provinces have closed their borders, imposed internal travel restrictions, or are asking tourists to use particular hotels.
Further measures may be introduced at any time. You should follow the advice of the Thai authorities. Keep up to date with the latest health advice provided by Thailand’s Ministry of Public Health and updates from the Thai Government on the situation.
Curfew
A nationwide curfew is in effect daily from 10pm until 4am until further notice. The only exceptions are medical personnel, banking sector workers, transportation of essential goods, commuting to and from the airport (with flight tickets), postal delivery, and those with official night shift duty.
Violation of this curfew can lead to 2 years in jail and/or 40,000 THB fine. There have been multiple cases of foreign nationals being arrested and fined or sentenced to jail for breaching curfew restrictions. You should follow local guidance.
Social measures
An emergency decree is currently in place until 31 May 2020. A number of measures have been outlined stating, among other instructions, that you must not:
enter high risk areas
hoard essential goods
attend public gatherings
propagate false information
All passengers must wear masks on all public transport. Many supermarkets and other businesses that remain open have the same requirement.
The Thai Department of Disease Control linked the smoking of cigarettes to the impact of coronavirus. Smoking in public is banned and can result in a fine of up to 5,000 Baht. Electronic cigarettes are already illegal in Thailand and their use may incur further fines or imprisonment.
All entertainment venues such as pubs and clubs, and educational institutions are temporarily closed, as are popular tourist activities. Some provinces may impose stricter measures including curfews or lockdowns on certain premises.
Since 3 May, the Thai authorities have started a phased lifting of lockdown measures. Details of the measures may differ between different provinces. Measures may also change or even be reimposed at short notice in response to COVID-19 conditions. Check the details for the province where you are. Supermarkets, pharmacies, convenience stores and sections in malls selling foodstuffs remain open, although some restrictions on opening times have been applied.
Visa extensions
The Thai government has announced that they will grant a further automatic extension to 31 July for visas of all types expiring on or after 26 March 2020. You do not need a supporting letter from your Embassy. Interpretation may vary in different areas - check with your local immigration office. For further information visit the Thai Immigration website or call the Immigration Bureau hotline on 1178.
It is unlikely you will be able to renew a visa by leaving Thailand and returning as Thailand has introduced further measures at its borders. Stay informed and plan accordingly.
If you are required to provide notification of staying in Thailand and your stay permit expires between 26 March and 31 July 2020 it will be automatically extended. However, when the situation improves or returns to normal, you will need to follow normal processes under the instruction of the Immigration Bureau.
Accommodation
Some provincial authorities are asking tourists to use particular hotels. Check you can access the accommodation and services you need for the duration of your stay and change your plans if necessary.
Health
The Thai authorities have advised the elderly (over 70 years), children (under 5 years) and those with pre-existing medical conditions (diabetes, hypertension, respiratory diseases, lung diseases) not to leave their home except for essential purposes, such as buying groceries, conducting business transactions, going to a hospital or filing complaints to the police.
For contact details for English speaking doctors, visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Thailand.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Thailand and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. This is a last resort option for those most in need and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, you should contact your local British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
