Terrorists are very likely to try to carry out attacks in Thailand.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out more about the global threat from terrorism.
Bomb and grenade attacks have been indiscriminate, including in places visited by foreigners. You should take care, particularly in public places, follow the advice of the local authorities and monitor local media reports. The Thai authorities have on a number of occasions warned of the possibility of attacks to coincide with symbolic dates or holidays.
In the past, there have been attacks in the main cities of Thailand. Further incidents are possible throughout Thailand.
On 10 March 2019 a number of small explosions occurred in Satun City and in Patthalung Province in the South of Thailand.
In December 2018, there were a series of small explosions on Samila beach in Songkhla City.
In April and May 2017, there were several explosions in Bangkok.
In August 2016, there were multiple explosions and incidents in tourist areas across Thailand (including Hua Hin, Trang, Krabi, Nakhon Sri Thammarat, Patong and Loma in Phuket, Surat Thani, and Khao Lak in Phang Nga) involving improvised explosive devices (IEDs) and incendiary devices.
A large bomb exploded at the Erawan Shrine in Bangkok in 2015, resulting in numerous casualties, including the death of a British national. In October 2016, the Thai authorities say they disrupted planned attacks in Bangkok.
Since January 2004, there have been regular attacks in Thailand’s southernmost provinces of Pattani, Yala and Narathiwat, and in the southern four districts of Songkhla province. These have included arson, bombings and shootings. Targets have included civilians and members of the security forces, government offices, tourist hotels, discos, bars, shops, marketplaces, supermarkets, schools, transport infrastructure and trains. Over 7,700 people, including civilians, have been killed and several thousand more injured.
Martial law has been in place in nearly all areas within these provinces since 2006. The security authorities can detain suspects without charge, censor the media, conduct searches and seize documents. The FCO advise against all but essential travel to the provinces of Pattani, Yala, Narathiwat and southern Songkhla province.
There’s a heightened threat of terrorist attack globally against UK interests and British nationals from groups or individuals motivated by the conflict in Iraq and Syria. You should be vigilant at this time.
