!
Warning
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to parts of Thailand.

Your travel insurance could be invalidated if you travel against advice from the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO).
Areas where FCDO advises against all but essential travel
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to parts of the south, near the Thailand-Malaysia border:
Pattani Province
Yala Province
Narathiwat Province
southern Songkhla Province – south of the A43 road between Hat Yai and Sakom, and south of the train line which runs between Hat Yai and Padang Besar
FCDO also advises against all but essential travel on the Hat Yai to Padang Besar train line that runs through these provinces.
This is due to regular attacks in the provinces by the border with Malaysia. See Safety and security .
FCDO also advises against all but essential travel to within 50km of the whole border with Cambodia.
Find out more about why FCDO advises against travel. 
Thailand-Cambodia border
There are updated reports of fighting including rocket and artillery fire on 24 July between Thailand and Cambodia, spreading across locations along the border. Casualties have been reported, as well as evacuations of areas close to the border. Land borders/crossings between Thailand and Cambodia have been suspended. Some tourist destinations in border areas such as the Khao Phra Wihan/Preah Vihear temple, the Ta Kwai/Ta Krabey temple and the Ta Muen Thom/Tamone Thom temple are currently closed.
There are also unexploded landmines in the border area.
We advise against all but essential travel to the affected border areas.
Do not carry cannabis out of Thailand
British nationals have been caught carrying cannabis out of Thailand. There have been arrests of British nationals caught transiting through airports in other countries. Many international airports have excellent technology and security for detecting illegal items, which may be used to scan the baggage of transiting passengers.
Before you travel
No travel can be guaranteed safe. Read all the advice in this guide. You may also find it helpful to: 
see general advice for women travellers
read our guide on disability and travel abroad
see general advice for LGBT+ travellers
read about safety for solo and independent travel
see advice on volunteering and adventure travel abroad
Travel insurance
If you choose to travel, research your destinations and get appropriate travel insurance. Insurance should cover your itinerary, planned activities and expenses in an emergency.
About FCDO travel advice
FCDO provides advice about risks of travel to help you make informed decisions. Find out more about FCDO travel advice.
Get travel advice updates
Sign up to get email notifications when this travel advice is updated.
Follow FCDO:   
travel advice on X
travel advice on Facebook
Travel Aware on Instagram
