Coronavirus guidance is being updated.
Read what you can and cannot do

The information on this page covers the most common types of travel and reflects the UK government’s understanding of the rules currently in place. Unless otherwise stated, this information is for travellers using a full ‘British Citizen’ passport.
The authorities in the country or territory you’re travelling to are responsible for setting and enforcing the rules for entry. If you’re unclear about any aspect of the entry requirements, or you need further reassurance, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
You should also consider checking with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Restrictions in response to coronavirus
To enter the French Overseas Territories, you will need to complete a travel certificate. There are different certificates for travel from mainland France to French overseas territories or international travel from abroad to French overseas territories.
Make sure you complete the travel certificate before you travel, so you can show it to French border authorities on entry and, where appropriate, travel companies prior to boarding. You must carry a physical copy of the declaration; electronic versions will not be accepted. You are able to produce a handwritten copy of the text if you do not have access to a printed form.
Local travel
To travel within or to transit through French Overseas Territories, you should complete an Attestation de déplacement dérogatoire to certify your reason for travel. You can carry a physical copy or an electronic version of this “attestation” (declaration). This declaration should be completed before starting your journey.
For French Overseas Territories, this declaration does not replace the requirement for an travel certificate, detailed above. Further information is available on the Ministry of Interior webpage.
Visas
New Caledonia is a dependent territory of France.
If your passport describes you as a British Citizen you do not need a visa to enter New Caledonia. Other British passport holders should check the current entry requirements with the French Foreign Ministry. If you wish to remain in New Caledonia for more than three months, you should apply at the local Haut Commissariat or French Consulate for the necessary residence and work permits.
If the UK leaves the EU without a deal, the current visa policy for British Citizens visiting New Caledonia may change. We are working with the relevant authorities to clarify entry requirements for British nationals and this page will be updated as soon as further information is available. If you would like more details in the meantime, or want to discuss a specific issue, you should consult the French Embassy in London.
Passport validity
Your passport should be valid for the proposed duration of your stay. No additional period of validity beyond this is required.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents are accepted for entry, airside transit and exit from New Caledonia.
Employment
EU regulations regarding employment and right of abode don’t apply to New Caledonia. British nationals have no right to work or to extend their stay beyond the initial 3 months without special authorisation from the local authorities.
