!
Warning
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to New Caledonia.

Before you travel check that: 
your destination can provide the healthcare you may need 
you have appropriate travel insurance for local treatment or unexpected medical evacuation 
This is particularly important if you have a health condition or are pregnant. 
Emergency medical number 
Call 15, 17 or 256767 and ask for an ambulance. 
Contact your insurance company quickly if you’re referred to a medical facility for treatment. 
Vaccine recommendations and health risks 
At least 8 weeks before your trip:  
check the latest vaccine recommendations for New Caledonia 
see where to get vaccines and whether you have to pay on the NHS travel vaccinations page  
See what health risks you’ll face in New Caledonia, including: 
Zika virus
dengue 
chikungunya 
Medication 
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or bought in the UK can be different in other countries. 
Read best practice when travelling with medicines on TravelHealthPro. 
Healthcare in New Caledonia 
General healthcare facilities in New Caledonia are good for uncomplicated treatment, but more serious cases may need evacuation to Australia or France. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation. 
Healthcare for residents  
If you plan to live in New Caledonia, consult the UK Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) about long-term entitlement to healthcare under the French national system.   
DWP Overseas Medical Benefits helpline: +44 (0)191 218 1999  
You can also get English-language information about French social security services online or on +33 (0)820 90 42 12. You can get French-language information online about state services in New Caledonia.  
Health insurance cards
The European Health Insurance Card (EHIC) or Global Health Insurance Card (GHIC) do not provide health cover for you if you go to New Caledonia to visit or to live.
Travel and mental health 
Read FCDO guidance on travel and mental health. There is also mental health guidance on TravelHealthPro. 
