

Terrorism  
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.      
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad. 
Terrorism in New Caledonia 
Although there is no recent history of terrorism in New Caledonia, attacks cannot be ruled out. 
Ongoing protests and blockades 
FCDO are aware of ongoing protests and blockades in New Caledonia. Overnight curfews have been introduced in towns including Dumbéa, Numéa, Mont-Dore and Païta. You should avoid areas where protests are taking place and follow the advice of the local authorities.
Airport closure
The international airport at Nouméa-La Tontouta is currently closed. Other transport routes may also be subject to disruption. You should check with your operator before travelling.
Crime 
Crime levels are low in New Caledonia. However, petty theft and street crime do happen. 
To reduce the risk to yourself and your belongings:  
avoid isolated areas, including beaches, after dark  
do not carry large amounts of cash and be careful when changing money or withdrawing it from ATMs  
do not wear expensive-looking jewellery or watches 
keep valuables and travel documents in your hotel safe or a safety deposit box  
Outdoor activities and adventure tourism  
Swimming safety 
See water safety on holiday from the Royal Life Saving Society.  
Scuba diving 
Diving schools may have limited resources and do not always observe safety and maintenance standards. Always:   
ask to see a dive operator’s credentials 
check the conditions on your insurance policy – some policies require dive instructors to have certain qualifications 
make sure safety equipment is available on the boat, particularly oxygen 
ask about safety precautions, including the ability to transfer divers to a hyperbaric chamber 
If you have not had any previous diving experience, check what to do if something goes wrong, including how to call for help while at sea. 
Transport risks  
Road travel  
If you are planning to drive in New Caledonia, see information on driving abroad.  
You’ll need to have both the 1968 version of the international driving permit (IDP) and your UK driving licence with you in the car. You cannot buy an IDP outside the UK, so get one before you travel.  
Hire car companies often have stricter requirements for their customers, such as a year of driving experience, a higher minimum age and holding an IDP. 
Drink-driving is a serious offence in New Caledonia. If you are tested and found to have more than two-thirds of the legal limit for England and Wales in your system, you may get a fine and possible imprisonment. 
Extreme weather and natural disasters 
Cyclones 
Tropical cyclones are a risk in New Caledonia, particularly from mid-December to mid-March. Check local forecasts and updates from the World Meteorological Organization. Monitor these updates and follow any advice issued by the local authorities. 
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards. 
