If you are arriving in the UK from New caledonia on or after 4am on 18 January you will need to self-isolate on your arrival, unless you have a valid exemption. Check the latest guidance for England, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales.
Travel is subject to entry restrictions
Regular international flights to and from New Caledonia are suspended until at least 27 March 2021.
Entry to New Caledonia is only permitted for essential reasons. Travellers have to produce a negative result of a PCR test carried out less than 72 hours before departure.
Travelers have to provide the completed necessary “attestation” which is available from the French government website.
A mandatory 14-day quarantine in a government assigned hotel is required on arrival from most destinations.
Travellers may need to produce a self-certified document affirming that they have no COVID symptoms and that to their knowledge they have not been in contact with any person confirmed positive within the last 14 days.
These entry requirements are subject to change. For further information on the entry restrictions in place for French Overseas Territories, see the French government’s website before travelling.
See Entry requirements for more information before you plan to travel.
Preparing for your return journey to the UK
If you’re returning to the UK from overseas, you will need to:
provide your journey and contact details before you travel
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
If you’re planning travel to New Caledonia, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCDO’s guidance on foreign travel insurance.
Tropical cyclones may occur, particularly between mid-December and mid-March. See Natural disasters
UK health authorities have classified New Caledonia as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For more information and advice, visit the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in New Caledonia, attacks can not be ruled out. See Terrorism
Most visits to New Caledonia are trouble free. Crime levels are low but you should take normal precautions.
There’s no British Embassy in New Caledonia. Consular support is limited however, the British High Commission Wellington in New Zealand can provide consular support to British nationals.
Take out comprehensive travel and medical insurance before you travel.
