!
Warning
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to New Caledonia.

FCDO advises against all but essential travel to New Caledonia
Your travel insurance could be invalidated if you travel against FCDO advice. Consular support is also severely limited where FCDO advises against travel.
Given ongoing tensions and the current closure of the international airport, we advise against all but essential travel to New Caledonia.
Following ongoing protests and blockades, a state of emergency is currently in force in New Caledonia.
Further information is detailed in the Safety and security section.
Leaving New Caledonia
France, Australia and New Zealand are carrying out evacuation flights from New Caledonia. We are in direct contact with British Nationals about options to join these. If you are a British National in New Caledonia, make sure you register your presence so we can contact you.
Register your presence
If you are still in New Caledonia, FCDO strongly encourages you to register your presence. This allows FCDO to share important updates.
Help abroad in an emergency
There is no British Embassy in New Caledonia and the British Embassy in Paris, France, supports British nationals who need emergency help from the UK government.
If you are in New Caledonia and in need of UK consular assistance, please contact the British Embassy in Paris which operates a 24/7 consular telephone service.
Telephone: +33 (0) 1 44 51 31 00
Before you travel 
No travel can be guaranteed safe. Read all the advice in this guide and any specific travel advice that applies to you: 
women travellers 
disabled travellers 
LGBT+ travellers 
solo and independent travel 
volunteering and adventure travel 
Travel insurance 
If you choose to travel, research your destinations and get appropriate travel insurance. Insurance should cover your itinerary, planned activities and expenses in an emergency. 
About FCDO travel advice 
The Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) provides advice about risks of travel to help British nationals make informed decisions. Find out more about FCDO travel advice. 
Follow and contact FCDO travel on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram. You can also sign up to get email notifications when this advice is updated. 
