Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Benin on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
Commercial flights are operating to and from Benin. Check with your travel company for the latest information.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Benin.
Returning to the UK
Travelling from and returning to the UK
Check what you must do to travel abroad and return to England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
If you plan to pass through another country to return to the UK, check the travel advice for the country you’re transiting. If you will pass through a red list country, book your hotel quarantine package before travelling to the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements. You should contact local authorities for information on testing facilities (available in French only).
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Benin
Travel within the country should be limited to essential travel only. Capacity on public transport is limited to 50%.
Public places and services
Gatherings of over 50 people are prohibited. Restrictions on bars, restaurants and entertainment spots have been lifted.
Visits to public institutions, including government buildings, have been limited. Additional measures include the requirement to wear face masks in public spaces and a systematic sanctioning of those people found to have breached restriction and confinement measures imposed on them.
Schools and other educational establishments have been reopened.
Healthcare in Benin
Unlike in the UK, you will need to go to a pharmacy to obtain most over-the-counter medicines. Pharmacies are widely available and are usually identified by a green cross. They will accept prescriptions from the UK although the specific prescribed brand will most probably be replaced by a generic or other brand equivalent. Benin has not yet forced a total lockdown and in the event that this occurs, pharmacies will remain open.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Benin.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Testing positive for COVID-19 in Benin
COVID-19 test results are sent via an SMS text message. It can take up to 72 hours to receive the result from the day the test was taken.
Those who test positive must isolate at a government hospital if the condition is serious. Alternatively, those who test positive with mild symptoms or no symptoms are required to self-isolate at a location of their choice. Isolation is required until you receive a negative test result.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Benin
We will update this page when the Government of Benin announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Benin national vaccine programme started in March 2021 and is using the AstraZeneca and Coronavac vaccines. The Government of Benin has stated that British nationals resident in Benin are eligible for vaccination if they choose to join the programme. Further information on the vaccination programme is available on the Government of Benin Ministry of Health website.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in Benin, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
The Benin authorities are encouraging those with any information or concerns about coronavirus to call these numbers: +229 95 36 11 07, +229 51 02 00 00 or +229 51 04 00 00. This includes reporting those who are not respecting the preventative measures imposed by the authorities.
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
You can find information, in French, on the Benin government’s coronavirus website.
