This page has information on travelling to Benin. Check what you must do to return to the UK.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport from the UK, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Benin set and enforce entry rules.
All travellers
The land border with Togo is closed until further notice.
All travellers must undergo a COVID PCR test 48 hours before arrival to Benin
You will need a visa to enter or travel through Benin as a visitor. For information see Visas section.
If you’re fully vaccinated
Entry requirements for Benin are the same for all travellers, regardless of COVID-19 vaccination status. See All travellers.
Proof of vaccination status
Benin will accept the UK’s digital proof of COVID-19 vaccination record. They will not accept the UK’s letter version or proof of recovery. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
If you’re not fully vaccinated
Entry requirements for Benin are the same for all travellers, regardless of COVID-19 vaccination status. See All travellers.
If you’ve had COVID-19 in the past year
Children and young people
Entry requirements for Benin are the same for all travellers including children and young people, regardless of COVID-19 vaccination status. See All travellers.
If you’re transiting through Benin
Transiting is when you pass through one country on the way to your final destination.
If you are transiting through Benin on your way to another country and staying airside at the airport you need to have a negative PCR test result dated no more than 48 hours before departure.
Exemptions
There are no exemptions to Benin’s entry requirements.
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
Passport validity
Your passport should be valid for the proposed duration of your stay. You do not need any additional period of validity on your passport beyond this.
Visas
You will need a visa to enter or travel through Benin as a visitor. You should get a short stay or multiple entry e-visa by applying and paying online. The visa will then be issued on arrival at the airport in Cotonou.
The nearest Embassy of Benin is in Paris:
Embassy of the Republic of Benin
87 Avenue Victor Hugo
752116
Paris
Telephone: +33 145 009882, +33 142 223191
Fax: +33 145 018202
For further information on entry requirements, contact the Embassy of Benin in Paris.
Visas for Nigeria, Ghana and Togo
Non-resident British nationals in Benin who wish to travel to Nigeria and Ghana can-not get entry visas in Benin. You should apply for these before travelling to Benin. You can get a visa for Togo at the Togolese Embassy in Cotonou or at the To-go/Benin border.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are accepted for entry, and exit from Benin.
Returning to the UK
All departing passengers must undergo testing at Cotonou Cadjehoun International Airport or Palais des Congres. Fees are 25,000 FCFA (normal service) or 50,000 FCFA (premium service). The sample must be taken less than 5 days before departure. There is an online guidance page (in French) which explains the steps for departing passengers and test results can be obtained within 24 to 48 hours.
Check what you must do to return to the UK.
