

If you have a health condition, or you are pregnant, you may need specialist healthcare abroad. Check whether your destination country can provide the healthcare you may need and ensure you have appropriate travel insurance for unexpected medical evacuation or local treatment.
See the Coronavirus travel health and Healthcare sections in the Coronavirus page for COVID-19 health information.
At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Health risks
There has been a recent increase in the number of cases of dengue reported in Cotonou and Calavi. For information and advice about the risks associated with dengue, visit the TravelHealthPro website
Reports of a cholera outbreak continue, including fatalities. Cotonou is currently the most affected area. You should take the necessary precautions and seek urgent medical attention if you become unwell.
Water-borne diseases (including cholera), tuberculosis, lassa fever, meningitis and malaria are common.
The 2014 UNAIDS Report on the Global AIDS Epidemic estimated that around 78,000 adults aged 15 or over in Benin were living with HIV. The prevalence percentage was estimated at around 1.1% of the adult population compared to the prevalence percentage in adults in the UK of around 0.25%. You should exercise normal precautions to avoid exposure to HIV/AIDS.
Medical treatment
Medical facilities are poor, particularly in rural areas. Emergency facilities are extremely limited. For serious medical treatment, medical evacuation would be necessary. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation. Contact your insurance company promptly if you’re referred to a medical facility for treatment.
