!
Warning
FCDO advises against all travel to parts of Benin.

Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.    
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Benin
Terrorists are very likely to try and carry out attacks in Benin.
Attacks could be indiscriminate, including in places frequented by foreign nationals such as:
beach resorts
hotels
bars
restaurants
Stay aware of your surroundings, keep up to date with local media reports and follow the advice of local authorities.
There is a risk of terrorist attacks in the northern border regions, including throughout the Parc du W National Park, which is tri-national and shares an open border with Benin and Niger. See Regional risks. 
Examples of recent significant attacks include: 
in 2022, 7 national park staff and 1 military personnel were killed and 12 people were injured when 2 separate vehicle convoys hit improvised explosive devices in the Beninese side of the Parc National du W
in 2021, at least 2 people were killed in an attack in the northern border area of Porga
Terrorist kidnap
Foreigners, government officials and civilians have been kidnapped by groups originating in bordering countries including Niger and Burkina Faso. Groups include Al-Qaida in the Islamic Maghreb (AQIM) and Jamaat Nusrat al-Islam wal Muslimeen (JNIM), who may travel across the region’s porous borders. There is a heightened risk of kidnap in areas bordering the Sahel, this includes northern Benin.
In 2019, 2 French tourists and their Beninese guide were kidnapped from Pendjari National Park. The guide was found dead, but the hostages were rescued in Burkina Faso a few days later. 
British nationals are seen as legitimate targets, including tourists, humanitarian aid workers, journalists and business travellers. If you are kidnapped, the reason for your presence is unlikely to protect you or secure your safe release. 
The long-standing policy of the British government is to not make substantive concessions to hostage takers. The British government considers that paying ransoms and releasing prisoners builds the capability of terrorist groups and finances their activities. This can, in turn, increase the risk of further hostage-taking. The Terrorism Act (2000) makes payments to terrorists illegal. 
Political situation
Demonstrations took place in Cotonou, Porto Novo, Parakou, Manigri and Tchaourou ahead of the presidential election in April 2021. Avoid all demonstrations, large crowds, political gatherings and rallies. In the event of unrest, monitor local media and follow instructions and announcements from the local authorities. Comply with any checks or security measures, including curfews. The authorities may introduce these at short notice.
Crime
Street crime
Street crime, including theft and mugging, is common in Cotonou. Pickpockets often operate in places visited by international travellers. 
To reduce your personal risk: 
take care in crowded areas, including hotels, bars and on public transport
avoid walking alone at night and in isolated areas
be alert in Grand Marché de Dantokpa (Dantokpa Market) and avoid the area at night
do not walk on the beach alone at any time
in general do not resist an armed attacker
Vehicle crime 
Be alert to the risk of carjacking both in Cotonou and on roads outside towns and cities. Always keep doors locked and windows closed when driving and avoid driving after dark. Do not slow down or stop if people signal you to pull over.
Scams
Scam artists target foreign visitors and residents. The scams come in many forms – romance and friendship, business ventures, work and employment opportunities – and can cause great financial loss. Warn your friends and family to be sceptical if they’re asked to transfer funds to you in Benin. Tell them to contact you to check that you’ve made this request.
Laws and cultural differences
Voodoo culture
Benin is one of the main centres of Voodoo practices, and Voodoo culture is prevalent. You should research and respect religious and social traditions to avoid offending local sensitivities.
Most people in Benin celebrate Voodoo Festival, an annual public holiday in early January. Make sure you’ve arranged travel and accommodation as options are limited during the festival. Watch out for pickpockets.
Illegal drugs and prison sentences
Possession, use or trafficking of illegal drugs is a serious offence and can result in a lengthy prison sentence and heavy fines.
Using cameras in secure areas
It is illegal to take photos at or near sensitive or government sites, such as military installations or the airport.
LGBT+ travellers
Same-sex sexual activity is legal, but same-sex relationships are not widely accepted. Showing affection in public can receive negative attention.
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Bribes
You should politely and firmly decline requests for ‘gifts’ from officials to facilitate administrative matters as this could implicate you in illegal activity.  
Outdoor activities and adventure tourism
Swimming safety
Ocean currents are very strong along all parts of the coast. Many drownings occur each year. Do not swim unless you have reliable local advice and confidence in your ability. See water safety on holiday from the Royal Life Saving Society.
Transport risks
Road travel
If you are planning to drive in Benin, see information on driving abroad.
You’ll need to have both the correct version of the international driving permit (IDP) and your UK driving licence with you in the car.
Driving standards and road conditions in Benin are poor. Avoid driving outside towns and cities at night as roads are poorly lit. During the rainy seasons there may be flooding, particularly in rural areas.
Fuel shortages are common in rural areas of northern Benin. Police sometimes check vehicles at temporary roadblocks to improve road safety and reduce the number of carjackings.
There’s no reliable public transport in Benin. Avoid using taxis and long-distance buses as they’re poorly maintained and often overloaded.
Sea travel
Piracy is a risk in the Gulf of Guinea, including in ports across the region. Take precautions to avoid piracy and armed robbery at sea.
