Coronavirus guidance is being updated.
Read the Prime Minister’s statement for the latest information.

This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Benin as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Benin to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Measures include social distancing, reduced public transport capacity levels and not allowing groupings of more than 10 people.
The wearing of masks is now mandatory in public places.
Health
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Benin.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Benin, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
The Benin authorities are encouraging those with any information or concerns about coronavirus to call these numbers: +229 95 36 11 07, +229 51 02 00 00 or +229 51 04 00 00. This includes reporting those who are not respecting the preventative measures imposed by the authorities.
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
You can find information, in French, on the Benin government’s coronavirus website.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
You can find more information about cases in Benin on the TravelHealthPro country page.
