The Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) advises against all travel to:
the Parc du W National Park and the contiguous hunting zones of Meêkrou and Djona. The Parc is tri-national and shares an open border with Burkina Faso and Niger. There is a risk of terrorist attacks throughout the Parc
the area between the Parc du W and the border with Niger
the Pendjari National Park and adjacent hunting grounds
all other areas within 5km of the border with Burkina Faso
The FCDO advises against all but essential travel to:
the area between the Interstate Highway (RNIE) 2 (Tchaourou to Malanville) and the Nigerian border, due to increasing criminality in that area.
the remainder of Benin based on the current assessment of COVID-19 risks
Travel to Benin is subject to entry restrictions
Entry and exit at border crossings is limited to “extreme necessity” and authorised in liaison with bordering countries.
On May 12, the Government of Benin announced mandatory COVID-19 testing of all airline passengers arriving in Benin.
See Entry requirements for more information before you plan to travel.
Returning to the UK
Benin is on the amber list for entering England. Check what you must do to enter England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
If you’re planning travel to Benin, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCDO’s guidance on foreign travel insurance.
For information about COVID-19 vaccines, see the Coronavirus page.
You should avoid any political gatherings or demonstrations and listen to advice from the media and local authorities. See Political situation
Additional checks are in place at the Seme border crossing between Benin and Nigeria. This has caused some disruption and delays. If you’re planning to make a land crossing from Benin to Nigeria, check with local authorities for the latest information before travelling.
Terrorist attacks in Benin cannot be ruled out. Attacks could be indiscriminate. You should be vigilant, especially in places visited by foreigners. See Terrorism
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission. Consular support is limited in Benin. British nationals should contact the British High Commission Accra in Ghana who can provide consular support. The Honorary Consular Agent in Benin can offer limited consular assistance.
