Terrorists are very likely to try to carry out attacks in Benin.
On 8 February 2022, 7 national park staff and 1 military personnel were killed and 12 people were injured when two separate vehicle convoys hit improvised explosive devices in the tri-border area of the Parc National du W.
On 2 December 2021, at least 2 people were killed in an attack in the northern border area of Porga.
Benin contributes to both the Multinational Joint Task Force (MNJTF) to combat Boko Haram and the UN peacekeeping initiative in Mali (MINUSMA) and may therefore be considered a legitimate target by terrorist groups in the wider region including IS West Africa (ISWA), Boko Haram and Al-Qaida in the Islamic Maghreb (AQ-M).
As seen in Mali, Cote d’Ivoire and Burkina Faso, terrorist groups continue to mount attacks on beach resorts, hotels, cafés and restaurants visited by foreigners. Be especially vigilant in these locations.
There’s also a possibility that terrorist groups from neighbouring Burkina Faso, Niger and Nigeria may enter the border areas of northern Benin. Terrorist activity is increasing in south-eastern Burkina Faso, including confirmed attacks in the Burkina Faso part of the Parc du W. The Parc is tri-national and shares and an open border with Benin and Niger. There is a risk of terrorist attacks throughout the Parc.
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. You should remain vigilant at all times.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Kidnapping
There is a threat of kidnapping by groups originating in the Sahel. This includes Al Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb and Jamaat Nusrat al-Islam wal Muslimeen (JNIM), who may travel across the region’s porous borders. There is a heightened risk of kidnap in areas bordering the Sahel, this includes Northern Benin.
Terrorist groups have kidnapped foreigners, government officials and civilians in the region. Further kidnaps are likely. On 1 May 2019, two French tourists and their Beninese guide were kidnapped from Pendjari National Park. On 4 May 2019, local authorities confirmed that the guide had been found dead. On 11 May 2019, the hostages were rescued in Burkina Faso.
British nationals are viewed as legitimate targets, including those engaged in tourism, humanitarian aid work, journalism or business sectors. If you’re kidnapped, the reason for your presence is unlikely to serve as a protection or secure your safe release.
The long-standing policy of the British Government is not to make substantive concessions to hostage takers. The British Government considers that paying ransoms and releasing prisoners builds the capability of terrorist groups and finances their activities. This can, in turn, increase the risk of further hostage-taking. The Terrorism Act (2000) makes payments to terrorists illegal.
