Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for the British Virgin Islands on the TravelHealthPro website.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
There are limited commercial flights to and from the BVI. Check with your travel company for the latest information. The Terrance B. Lettsome International airport is operating from 7am to 10pm.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do prior to and when you arrive in the BVI.
Returning to the UK
Travelling from and returning to the UK
Check what you must do to travel abroad and return to England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
If you plan to pass through another country to return to the UK, check the travel advice for the country you’re transiting.
You should contact the Public Health Division on +1 284 468 2274 or the Medical Hotline on +1 284 852 7650 for information on testing facilities.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in the British Virgin Islands
Domestic air travel services between Tortola, Virgin Gorda and Anegada are allowed to operate in accordance with existing protocols.
Regular ferry services between Tortola and its sister islands of Virgin Gorda, Jost Van Dyke and Anegada are operating. Ferries are allowed to operate with up to 65 people at a time. Commercial ferries to and from the US Virgin Islands are operating on a restricted schedule of three return journeys per day.
Freight couriers and charter companies are permitted to operate between the BVI and USVI subject to strict adherence to the established COVID-19 suppression measures and fortnightly.
From 1 November 2021, foreign-based charter companies must obtain authorisation to operate in BVI’s territorial waters.
Cruise passengers
Fully vaccinated passengers with a negative RT-PCR COVID-19 test or a negative rapid antigen test are permitted to move freely throughout the Territory, subject to adhering to the relevant COVID-19 protocols in the Territory. You will need to provide proof of your vaccination status and proof of a negative rapid antigen or RT-PCR test taken 24 to 48 hours prior to arrival.
Further information on the BVI restrictions can be found at the website of the Government of the Virgin Islands, including any restrictions in place both within the Territory and in the BVI’s territorial waters.
Public spaces and services
When moving around the BVI, you should wear a face covering in all public settings. Premises will only allow entry if you are wearing a face mask.
Indoor occupancy is limited to one person per nine square feet and no more than 100 people, unless otherwise approved by the Ministry of Health and Social Development.
Nightclubs are open to fully vaccinated and partially vaccinated individuals. You will need to provide proof of your vaccination status on entry. Partially vaccinated individuals will also need to provide proof of a negative rapid antigen test taken within the last 7 days.
Beaches are open.
Healthcare in the British Virgin Islands
Information on risks to travellers, avoidance measures, symptoms and how to self-quarantine is available on the BVI Ministry of Health and Social Development website.
You should make sure that your travel insurance covers medical repatriation, quarantine accommodation costs, and COVID-19 medical costs in the event you contract COVID-19 during your stay in the BVI.
If your stay needs to be extended due to coronavirus related restrictions, a UK prescription will be honoured by local pharmacies provided the prescribed medicine is available in the BVI.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in BVI.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in the British Virgin Islands
The UK Government has been supplying vaccines to the people of the UK’s Overseas Territories. The Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) is the UK authority responsible for assessing the safety, quality and efficacy of vaccines. MHRA has temporarily authorised under Regulation 174 of Human Medicines Regulations 2012, the Astra Zeneca COVID-19 vaccine for supply in the UK, Crown Dependencies and Overseas Territories for use in the British Virgin Islands. Further information on the vaccine programme in the British Virgin Islands can be found at https://gov.vg/covid-19.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
If you need urgent assistance, see Emergency assistance.
