This page has information on travelling to British Virgin Islands. Check what you must do to return to the UK.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport from the UK, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in British Virgin Islands set and enforce entry rules.
All travellers
You will need a valid passport, with validity covering the proposed duration of your stay to enter or travel through the British Virgin Islands as a visitor. See below for further information on travel documentation.
Everyone (including children) entering the BVI will be subject to temperature checks on arrival.
There are no quarantine requirements on arrival, providing you have a negative RT-PCR or rapid antigen test. The type of test taken should be guided by the entry requirements of any country transited en route to the BVI.
There is a US$50 tax for all passengers, payable on leaving the BVI by air ($15 departure tax, $5 security charge departure tax and a US$30 airport development fee). This is generally included in the ticket price. If you’re departing the BVI by ferry, a departure tax of US$20 per person or US$15 for residents is payable. Visitors arriving by air or sea are also charged an Environmental and Tourism levy of US$10 on arrival.
If you’re fully vaccinated
Entry by air to the Territory is only permitted through the Terrance B. Lettsome International Airport. Travellers who have been fully vaccinated, with the second dose of a World Health Organization approved vaccine administered at least 14 days before travel, can also enter the BVI by sea through the Road Town Jetty; Soper’s Hole Dock, West End; Great Harbour, Jost Van Dyke; or Spanish Town, Virgin Gorda.
Fully vaccinated adults who have completed a rapid antigen test or RT-PCR test within 48 hours prior to arrival are exempt from entry testing requirements. Fully vaccinated adults who have taken a rapid antigen or RT-PCR test after 48 hours, but within 5 days prior to arrival must also take a rapid antigen test on arrival.
Any traveller who tests positive for COVID-19 on arrival will be required to quarantine for 7 days. Travellers will be able to end their quarantine if they receive a negative RT-PCR test result on day 14. Please note that your arrival date is day 0.
On arrival, all fully vaccinated adults and unaccompanied children must:
show proof of a negative RT-PCR or rapid antigen test result
show proof of vaccination status (see ‘Proof of vaccination status’ section below)
show proof of travel insurance with minimum approved coverage for quarantine accommodation costs, medical repatriation and COVID-19 medical costs, including hospitalisation, doctor’s visits and prescriptions
Proof of vaccination status
You can use the UK COVID Pass, and proof of COVID-19 vaccination issued in the Crown Dependencies to demonstrate your vaccination record when entering the BVI. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
If you’re not fully vaccinated
Partially vaccinated travellers (those that have received one dose of a two-dose vaccine, or whose second dose was administered less than two weeks before arriving in the Territory) and unvaccinated travellers are only permitted to enter the BVI through the Road Town Jetty and the T B Lettsome International Airport.
Partially vaccinated and unvaccinated adults and unaccompanied children must:
show proof of a negative RT-PCR COVID-19 test taken within 5 days prior to arrival. Partially vaccinated travellers will also need to show proof of their vaccination status (see ‘Proof of vaccination status’ section above).
show proof of travel insurance with minimum approved coverage for quarantine accommodation costs, medical repatriation and COVID-19 medical costs, including hospitalisation, doctor’s visits and prescriptions
take a rapid antigen test upon arrival at a cost of $50 and receive a negative result.
Any traveller who tests positive for COVID-19 on arrival will be required to quarantine for 7 days. Travellers will be able to end their quarantine if they receive a negative RT-PCR test result on day 14. Please note that your arrival date is day 0.
If you’ve had COVID-19 in the past year
If you have recovered from COVID-19 you will still need to satisfy the requirements detailed above.
Children and young people
Children aged 5 to17 accompanied by a parent or guardian should follow the same testing requirements as their parents/guardians. All Partially vaccinated or unvaccinated children aged 5 to 17 will be tested on entry at a cost of $50, even when accompanied by fully vaccinated parents/guardians that are exempt from entry testing requirements. There are no testing requirements for Children aged 4 and under.
See guidance above for entry requirements for unaccompanied children.
If you’re transiting through the British Virgin Islands
Transiting is when you pass through one country on the way to your final destination.
If you are transiting through the British Virgin Islands on your way to another country and staying in the airport (airside), you need to show proof of a negative PCR or rapid antigen test taken within 48 hours of arrival.
If you are transiting through the British Virgin Islands on your way to another country and will be passing through immigration (sometimes known as a layover), for example to stay in a hotel for a flight the next day, you will be subject the testing regimes set out above, depending on your vaccination status.
Further information about transiting through the British Virgin Islands can be found on the Government of the Virgin Islands website.
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
If you are visiting the British Virgin Islands, your passport should be valid for the proposed period of your stay.
If you are a resident in the British Virgin Islands, your passport must be valid for at least 3 months from the date you arrive.
Check with your travel provider to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Visas
British nationals don’t need a visa to visit the BVI. It’s normal practice for BVI immigration authorities to issue you with a one-month entry stamp on arrival. You may also be granted an extension for one further month. Extensions for up to 6 months are granted on the discretion of the Chief Immigration Officer provided that the individual can show proof of independent financial means. You may need to provide evidence of accommodation and your plans to leave the BVI at the end of your stay.
Work Permits
Travellers who hold an expired work permit and are re-entering the BVI must submit a written request to the Immigration Department at least 5 working days prior to travel. This also applies to holders of valid work permit exemptions.
For all other immigration and labour matters, including work permits, contact the BVI authorities:
Immigration Department
Chief Immigration Officer
Government Offices
Road Town
Tortola
BVI
Telephone: 001 284 494-3471 or 001 284 468-3701 extension 4700/4770
Fax: 001 284 494-4399
Labour Department
Geneva Place
Road Town
Tortola
BVI
Telephone: 001 284 468 3701 extension 4708-4713 or 001 284 494 3451
Fax: 001 284 494 3027
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are accepted for entry, transit and exit from the BVI. If you’re travelling via the USA on an ETD, you will need to get a valid US visa.
As the BVI is a British Overseas Territory, there is no formal British diplomatic or consular representation. UK ETDs are processed by the British High Commission in Barbados.
Returning to the UK
Check what you must do to return to the UK.
