At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each overseas territory page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in overseas territories. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the local territory government.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
There is only one hospital in the BVI and medical facilities are limited. Complex medical problems are frequently referred to hospitals in the US Virgin Islands, Puerto Rico, or mainland USA. The US visa waiver scheme does not apply to one-off charter flights. Special arrangements have to be made for any non-US visa holder who is medically evacuated by charter flight. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation.
UK health authorities have classified the British Virgin Islands as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For more information and advice, visit the website of the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
Cases of Chikungunya virus have been confirmed in BVI and the number of reported cases in the region is increasing. You should take steps to avoid being bitten by mosquitoes.
The BVI Environmental Health Division is continuing its mosquito vector control activities as the risk of Dengue is present.
There is no hyperbaric chamber in the BVI. Patients needing treatment for decompression illness are transferred to the US Virgin Islands. More sensitive medical cases are transferred to San Juan, Puerto Rico.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 999 or 911 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
Coronavirus
There is an ongoing outbreak of coronavirus (COVID-19) in China, some other countries in the region and elsewhere.
Travel restrictions have been put in place at all airports and seaports by the Government of the Virgin Islands. The Government has announced that they are limiting international ports of entry to Terrance B Lettsome International Airport (Beef Island), Road Town Ferry Terminal and Sopers Hole, West End, Tortola to enable enhanced screening procedures of all arriving passengers.
With effect from Sunday, 15th March the Government of the Virgin Islands will suspend all entry to all those who have travelled to, from or through countries of special interest as specified by the World Health Organisation (WHO). Any passenger arriving in the British Virgin Islands who has in the 14 days preceding their arrival, travelled to, from or through WHO specified High Risk Countries will be subjected to enhanced screening at ports of entry and may be subjected to compulsory 14 day quarantine.
Full information on all travel advisories can be found at the website of the Government of the Virgin Islands
Further information on risks to travellers, avoidance measures, symptoms and how to self-quarantine is available on the BVI Ministry of Health and Social Development website
With effect from 14th March, for a minimum period of 30 days, no cruise ships will be permitted entry to the British Virgin Islands. All other vessels must clear entry at either West End, Tortola or Road Town, Tortola. Other ports of entry in Anegada, Virgin Gorda and Jost van Dyke are closed.
A decision has been made to postpone the BVI Spring Regatta and the Virgin Gorda Easter Festival. Further guidance on other large gatherings will be released soon.
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website
