The BVI is a separate legal jurisdiction to the United Kingdom and has its own laws.
Don’t get involved with illegal drugs, including marijuana. Possession of even small quantities can lead to large fines or imprisonment. Drug trafficking is a serious offence. Pack your own luggage yourself and don’t carry items that do not belong to you.
Observe customs regulations on the import and export of agricultural products and the protection of marine and animal life. There are a number of marine and animal specimens that may not be taken from the island. If in doubt, check with the local customs authorities or the Government’s Chief Conservation & Fisheries Officer before buying or attempting to import or export such items.
A grounded vessel that has sustained “material damage affecting her seaworthiness or efficiency”, must notify the Virgin Islands Shipping Registry within 24 hours of the accident.
Spear fishing isn’t permitted in the BVI. The use of scuba equipment, explosive, poison or other noxious substance to capture or remove any marine animal or coral is against the law (this includes dead coral and shells). Fishing within the boundaries of any marine park is strictly forbidden. Commercial, sport and pleasure fishing requires a fishing license and the boat you are fishing from must be registered. You can get a temporary permit from the Department of Agriculture and Fisheries:
Department Of Agriculture And Fisheries
Paraquita Bay,
Tortola, Virgin Islands (British) VG1120
Business Hours:
General Office - Paraquita Bay and Virgin Gorda - 8:30am to 4:30pm
Abattoir - 7am to 3pm
Airport - 7am to 10pm
Email Address: agriculturebvi@gov.vg, fisheries@gov.vg
General Office (Paraquita Bay) - 1(284) 468-6123/6124
Veterinary Unit - 1 (284) 468 - 6197
Virgin Gorda Office - 1(284) 468-6506/6507
Airport Office - 1(284) 468-6449
Homosexuality is legal under BVI law. There’s no provision for marriage or civil partnerships between same-sex couples. Attitudes in the main tourist destinations are tolerant. Throughout BVI, hotels and resorts are generally welcoming regardless of sexual orientation. Outside the tourist areas local attitudes can be conservative and some people may not approve of public displays of affection between same-sex couples. See our information and advice page for the LGBT community before you travel.
