

Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets.  Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in the British Virgin Islands (BVI)
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in the BVI, attacks cannot be ruled out.
Attacks could be indiscriminate. Stay aware of your surroundings, keep up to date with local media reports and follow the advice of local authorities.
Crime
Levels of crime in the BVI are low. However, some serious incidents do occur including armed robbery and drug-related gun crime.
Take sensible precautions to protect your personal safety and belongings, as you would at home:
carry a mobile phone with roaming capability
take care if walking alone in isolated areas including beaches, particularly after dark or attending large events or gatherings where criminals may operate
do not carry large amounts of cash or wear expensive-looking jewellery
use a hotel safe if possible
be aware of the risk of leaving your bags unattended, especially on the beach
do not attempt to resist an armed robber or take any action that puts you at greater risk
Take particular care of your passport, as it cannot be renewed or replaced in the BVI. If you lose your passport, you will need to apply online for an emergency travel document.
Laws and cultural differences
The BVI is a British Overseas Territory and has its own laws.
Illegal drugs and prison sentences
Possession of even small quantities of illegal drugs can lead to large fines or imprisonment. Drug trafficking is a serious offence. Pack your luggage yourself and do not carry items for anyone else.
Conservation and fishing laws
Commercial, sport and pleasure fishing require a fishing licence and the boat you are fishing from must be registered. You can get a temporary permit from the Department of Agriculture and Fisheries. Fishing is strictly prohibited within the Marine Parks. It is illegal to use spearguns, scuba diving equipment, explosives, poison or any other noxious substances for fishing in the BVI.
It is illegal to remove any marine animal, shells or coral including dead coral from the BVI without a permit. 
LGBT+ travellers
Same-sex sexual activity is legal in the BVI. However there’s no provision for marriage or civil partnerships between same-sex couples. Attitudes in the main tourist destinations are tolerant and hotels and resorts are generally welcoming regardless of sexual orientation. Local attitudes outside the tourist areas can be conservative and showing affection in public may receive negative attention.
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Outdoor activities and adventure tourism
Water sports
Many visitors to the BVI take part in water sports. The rate of accidents is very low, but they do occur. Many accidents involve the consumption of alcohol, so take care if you have been drinking. You can contact Virgin Islands Search and Rescue (VISAR)  to respond to emergencies at sea.
See ⁠watersports safety advice from the Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents (ROSPA).
Transport risks
Road travel
If you are planning to drive in the BVI, see information on driving abroad.
You can drive for up to 30 days on a UK licence in the BVI and then you must apply for a local licence. The majority of cars are left-hand drive, but you drive on the left as in the UK.
Extreme weather and natural disasters
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards. 
The hurricane season in the Caribbean normally runs from June to November but hurricanes can occur any time of the year.
You should:
monitor weather updates from the US National Hurricane Centre and the BVI Department of Disaster Management (DDM)
follow the advice of local authorities
download the DDM alert app
read the BVI Red Cross guidance on hurricanes and tsunamis
