Travel to the British Virgin Island is subject to entry restrictions
Phase II of the Restricted Border Re-opening Plan, allowing the entry of work permit holders with confirmed employment, work permit exempt holders, students, and other specified groups, begins on 1 September 2020
Entry to the British Virgin Islands (BVI) is prohibited, with exceptions for returning Virgin Islanders, Belongers, Permanent Residents, naturalised citizens, as well as for freight and cargo vessels
All eligible travellers arriving to the BVI will be required to quarantine for 14 days after arrival at pre-approved accommodation
There is a charge of $3,500 for security if quarantine is requested at a private property and, with effect from 1 October 2020, all qualified persons will be charged $2,500 per person for government quarantine accommodation, 24-hour security and meals
See Entry requirements for more information before you plan to travel.
Preparing for your return journey to the UK
If you’re returning to the UK from overseas, you will need to:
provide your journey and contact details before you travel
check if you need to self-isolate on your return
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
If you’re planning travel to the BVI, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCO’s guidance on foreign travel insurance.
Tropical Storm Laura is currently forecast to bring hazardous sea and weather conditions to the islands from the morning of Saturday 22 August 2020.
The hurricane season officially runs from June to November although severe storms can occur in the Caribbean throughout the year. The impact of these could be particularly severe in light of the damage caused by the 2017 hurricanes.
You should monitor local and international weather updates from the US National Hurricane Center and follow the advice of local authorities, including any evacuation orders.
The BVI is also close to a major tectonic fault line and is a high risk area for earthquakes and Tsunamis. See Natural disasters
As the BVI is a British Overseas Territory, there is no formal British diplomatic or consular representation and the local authorities deal with all requests for emergency assistance. See Emergency assistance
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are processed by the British High Commission in Barbados. ETDs are not valid for travel through the United States of America without a valid US visa. See Entry requirements
UK health authorities have classified the BVI as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For more information and advice, visit the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in the BVI, attacks can’t be ruled out. See Terrorism
