Coronavirus travel health
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Information on local testing facilities is available.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Singapore.
Returning to the UK
Travelling from and returning to the UK
Check what you must do to travel abroad and return to England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
If you plan to pass through another country to return to the UK, check the travel advice for the country you’re transiting.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Singapore
See the Singapore Government website for the latest on the COVID-19 situation and measures in place to curb its spread.
If you do not comply with these measures you could be fined, imprisoned, or both, then deported. Repeat offenders will face further fines and/or prosecution. Be aware that restrictions and penalties are subject to change at short notice.
Public spaces and services
Face masks
You must wear a face mask indoors and on public transport (wearing a mask outdoors is optional from 29 March 2022 onwards). Partly open-air hawker centres and ‘coffee shops’ are regarded as indoor venues that require mask wearing. Some exceptions are: children under 6 years old; anyone eating, drinking or taking medication; or anyone engaged in strenuous exercise. You could be fined, imprisoned, or both if you are found not wearing a face mask without a valid reason.
The Health Sciences Authority’s guide on face masks recommends that masks have at least 2 to 3 layers of fabric.
Trace Together and Health Alerts via SMS
You’ll need to scan in and out of many places using the Trace Together phone app or token. TraceTogether and fully vaccinated status is required to enter public places including:
public buildings
shopping centres and malls
schools
workplaces
places of worship
Short term foreign visitors must download the TraceTogether app on their phones and activate it while in Singapore. Mobile phones and/or local tourist SIM cards can be rented/purchased at Changi Airport to enable visitors to do so.
TraceTogether tokens can be rented for children aged 7-12 or those with disabilities. See the TraceTogether for Travellers page on the SafeTravel website for complete information.
If you are identified as a close contact of a confirmed case as part of this contract tracing system, you may receive a health alert via SMS and need to be tested. It is a legal requirement to follow the COVID-19 instructions given to you by the Singapore government.
Vaccination status
To enter most public places, anyone over 12 years old must be recognised as fully vaccinated by the Singapore government’s definition. You’re considered fully vaccinated 14 days after you’ve completed the required doses of any of these vaccines:
Pfizer
Moderna
AstraZeneca (also known as CoviShield)
Janssen (Johnson and Johnson)
Sinovac
Sinopharm
Covaxin
Novavax
You’ll need to show your TraceTogether app or token as proof of vaccination before being allowed to enter.
Singapore’s Vaccine Booster Programme includes those 12 years old and above. If you are resident in Singapore, or have stayed in Singapore for a month, and fail to get your booster shot within 270 days after your final dose of the primary series you will lose your fully-vaccinated status. See section on booster shots.
If you’re not fully vaccinated, you will not be able to enter shopping malls or public attractions, visit someone in hospital, or to dine or drink in restaurants, hawker centres, cafes or bars.
Quarantine and home recovery
If you test positive for COVID-19, you will initially be required to isolate at your hotel or residential accommodation. Instructions on what to do next depend on whether you are well or unwell. Details are on Singapore’s Living with COVID-19 page.
Work
Offices can have up to 75% staff capacity from 29 March 2022 onwards. Social gatherings at work are allowed for groups of up to ten people. Social distancing rules still apply.
If you are unvaccinated, you are not allowed to go into work at all.
Vaccination is required to obtain or renew a long-term pass, work pass or Permanent Residency.
Details on workplace matters are under Advisories on COVID-19 on the Ministry of Manpower website.
Social gatherings and dining out rules from 29 March onwards
When meeting up with friends or family:
keep group sizes to a maximum of ten people, even at events where masks are worn (up to 30 people can play sports together in some settings)
a maximum of ten different people (‘unique visitors’) can visit you at home at any one time
a maximum of ten people can dine out at restaurants together if they are fully vaccinated and can provide the necessary proof of vaccination (a maximum of five vaccinated people can dine together in venues that do not require vaccination status to be shown on entry)
In settings where masks are not being worn, such as at meals, different groups of people should keep a distance of one metre from each other
If safe distancing is not possible - while on public transport, for example - avoid speaking to each other or talking on the phone.
For guidelines on measures, visit the Ministry of Health or gov.sg websites.
Healthcare in Singapore
For contact details for English speaking doctors, see our list of healthcare providers. English is almost universally spoken in Singapore, so all hospitals – whether private or public – will have English-speaking medical staff.
For a complete list of healthcare institutions in Singapore, see the HCI directory.
Anyone requiring a COVID-19 polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test can get it from one of the clinics approved by the Ministry of Health. These clinics issue digital test result certificates. You should have these digital certificates notarised before you travel.
You can also get COVID-19 tests at Combined Test Centres (for PCR and ART tests) and Quick Test Centres (for self-paid ART tests). These tests are not valid for overseas travel.
If you’d like to do a self-test at home, you can buy Antigen Rapid Tests from retailers and chemists. There’s a list of self-test kits authorised for use in Singapore on the Health Sciences Authority website.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health. View Health for further details on healthcare in Singapore.
If you need some emotional support during this period, you can call one of these numbers:
National Care Hotline: 1800 202 6868
Samaritans of Singapore: 1800 221 4444
Mental Health Helpline (Institute of Mental Health): 6389 2222
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Singapore
Wherever possible British nationals should aim to be vaccinated in the country where they live. We will update this page when the Government of Singapore announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
Vaccination programme eligibility
The Singapore national vaccination programme has approved vaccination for those aged 5 years and older, with children eligible for children’s doses of the Pfizer vaccine. The following foreigners are part of the government’s vaccination programme:
permanent residents (PR)
employment pass (EP) holders
S Pass holders
work permit holders
foreign domestic workers
dependant’s pass holders
long-term visit pass (LTVP) holders
student pass holders
Certain categories of short-term pass holders can also be vaccinated. You should check the guidelines to see if you qualify and to find out how you can register. Vaccination using Pfizer-BioNTech (also known as Comirnaty), Moderna and Sinovac is free of charge. Vaccination with other vaccine brands may be possible at private clinics for a fee.
Booster shots
Residents aged 12 and above are considered fully vaccinated if the final dose of the primary vaccination series was received in the last 270 days.
Residents aged 12 and above, and those who have been staying in Singapore for a month, must receive a booster shot within 270 days after the final dose of their primary vaccination series to still be considered fully vaccinated. Visit the Vaccine Booster Programme section of the Ministry of Health website for more information.
A second booster dose is available for those over 80 years of age, those who live in care homes or those who are otherwise considered to be at risk of a severe infection due to underlying medical conditions.
A Vaccine Injury Financial Assistance Programme exists to cover any vaccine related impacts on health. This is available for residents and long-term pass holders who were vaccinated in Singapore with Pfizer, Moderna and Sinovac.
Updating your vaccination status in Singapore
If you were vaccinated abroad, you can update your records in Singapore if:
you’re a resident or long-term pass holder
you were vaccinated outside of Singapore with one of the WHO listed vaccines including: Pfizer (Comirnaty), Moderna, AstraZeneca (Covishield), Janssen (Johnson & Johnson), Sinovac, Sinopham, Covaxin or Novavax
Once confirmed, you’ll be recognised as vaccinated on Singapore’s TraceTogether app/token. See the Ministry of Health’s FAQs page for more information.
The local authorities have warned that vaccine-related scams exist.
For any questions about vaccination in Singapore, you should see the Ministry of Health website or call their hotline on 1800-333-9999.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in Singapore, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Proof of vaccination: within Singapore
Once vaccinated in Singapore, your vaccination status is recorded in the national ‘TraceTogether’ app/token. This can be shown at venues or events which require your vaccination status to enter.
Proof of vaccination: digital vaccine certificate
If you’re registered as vaccinated in Singapore and need a digital vaccine certificate (with a QR code) for overseas travel, you can:
visit notarise.gov.sg and log in using your SingPass account. If you don’t have a SingPass account, log in with your passport number
choose the type of document you need
follow the step-by-step guide
A PDF version of your vaccination certificate with a QR code will be sent to you by email.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
Check the Singapore Ministry of Health website for full details of Singapore’s coronavirus response and restrictions.
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
