This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Singapore set and enforce entry rules. For further information contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to. You should also consider checking with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Entry rules in response to coronavirus (COVID-19)
Entry to Singapore
There are entry restrictions into Singapore from third countries, see Singapore’s Safe Travel website for updated information.
Only Singapore citizens and permanent residents can enter Singapore without prior permission. See Entry permission guidelines.
If you’re a long-term resident (holder of an employment pass, S Pass, work permit, foreign domestic work permit, long-term visit pass, or student pass), you may enter Singapore without travelling on a Vaccinated Travel Lane if you are fully vaccinated and if the Singapore government has approved your application to enter. See Singapore’s Safe Travel website for updated information.
Singapore has introduced varying entry permissions depending on your vaccination status, country of origin, and purpose of visit (such as on compassionate/medical grounds). You should use the self-help tool on the Safe Travel website to see which permissions you need. Sign up to the Safe Travel Concierge to create a travel checklist and get updates on any changes.
Demonstrating your COVID-19 status
Singapore will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 vaccination record. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
Singapore only recognises those who have had two vaccine doses as fully vaccinated. Those aged 12 to 15 years old who have received only one dose are not recognised as vaccinated by Singapore and cannot travel on a Vaccinated Travel Lane flight.
The digital vaccination certificates issued by certain countries are also accepted.
Entry permission guidelines
Entry using the Vaccinated Travel Lane
Vaccinated travellers can enter Singapore from some countries without the need to quarantine by using a Vaccinated Travel Lane (VTL) flight. No new bookings can be made for VTL travel between 23rd December 2021 and 20th January 2022. The availability of VTL flights may be subject to sudden changes. Land entry from Malaysia on VTL buses is currently only open to Malaysian and Singaporean citizens. There are specific guidelines and documents needed for travel to Singapore on a VTL flight. Read the VTL pages on SafeTravel, including the checklists and FAQs, very carefully before submitting an application.
You must be fully vaccinated and have a valid proof of vaccination.
Make sure that you are booked on a VTL flight. If you’re issued a Vaccinated Travel Pass but arrive on a non-VTL flight, you may be denied entry. Travel insurance with a minimum coverage of S$30,000 is required. You can get this from an insurance provider of your choice or one of those listed on the SafeTravel website.
Before you travel, make sure to have hard copies of all documents found on the VTL Checklist. Remember to get a PCR test within two days before your flight to Singapore.
You’ll need to take these tests in Singapore:
an on-arrival PCR test at Changi Airport – advance booking and payment required
Antigen Rapid Tests (ART) at a Quick Test Centre or Combined Test Centre on Days 3 and 7
ARTs (self-administered) on Days 2, 4, 5, and 6 – results to be uploaded to a weblink, details to be given by the authorities
If you test positive for COVID, you will initially be required to isolate at your hotel or residential accommodation. Singapore’s Ministry of Health will assess whether you are suitable to recover in your accommodation or be transferred to a dedicated COVID-19 facility. If you are self-isolating in your accommodation, you will be issued an Isolation Order (IO) to remain in your accommodation for 10 days (if fully vaccinated) or 14 days (if unvaccinated or partially vaccinated).
If you test positive for the Omicron variant, or are a close contact of a confirmed case, you will be moved to a government facility. You will not be allowed to isolate at home.
Complete details for these procedures are on the VTL pages on the SafeTravel website.
Specific questions around travel to Singapore can be submitted on the SafeTravel Enquiry form.
Entry without using the Vaccinated Travel Lane
There are different guidelines for those wishing to enter Singapore without using the Vaccinated Travel Lane. Visit the SafeTravel website and scroll down to SafeTravel Lanes, items 2 and 3.
Read these guidelines carefully before submitting an application to enter Singapore.
These guidelines can change at short notice, so you should visit the Safe Travel and Ministry of Health websites for up-to-date information.
All work pass holders must comply with all Singapore government regulations or face their passes being revoked and/or fines/jail.
Entry for foreign crew for ships and small vessels/pleasure craft
There are other measures in place for foreign crew working on ships, small vessels or pleasure crafts at one of Singapore’s marinas. See the section on air/sea crew and pleasure craft owners of the SafeTravel website for complete guidelines.
Check with your employer or agent for any specific COVID-19 measures in place at the marina.
Quarantine requirements
Testing and quarantine rules vary depending on a number of factors. Visit the SafeTravel website for complete information.
Everyone granted permission to enter Singapore will be tested for COVID-19 upon arrival. Post arrival quarantine requirements vary depending on the country you are arriving from. Travellers from some destinations not arriving on a Vaccinated Travel Lane can self-quarantine at home (‘Stay at Home Notice’ or SHN). Others will need to do so at a designated facility. Visit the Safe Travel website for more details.
Everyone aged over 12 who is under home quarantine will need to wear an electronic tag for the duration of their quarantine period. This is a legal requirement. The tags are about the size of a watch and are worn on the wrist.
You must follow the quarantine rules. The quarantine period cannot be shortened even if you wish to leave Singapore.
If you are placed on an SHN or under quarantine, follow the instructions of the authorities carefully. Failure to comply carries a fine and a jail term of up to six months.
Transiting Singapore
Singapore’s Changi Airport allows transit of passengers only in certain circumstances. Check with your airline before undertaking a journey via Singapore. You should also familiarise yourself with transit procedures for Changi Airport before travelling. Transit passengers will need to show a negative COVID-19 test. You’ll need to take the test within two days before your flight to Singapore.
The type of test required – polymerase chain reaction (PCR) or antigen rapid test (ART) – will depend on your travel history. Full guidelines are on the Transiting through Singapore page of the SafeTravel website.
Regular entry requirements
Visas
You don’t normally need a visa to enter Singapore for stays of up to 90 days for tourism, business or social visits. You may be eligible to enter Singapore using the enhanced Immigration Automated Clearance System (eIACS) under the Frequent Traveller Programme.
Passport validity
Your passport should be valid for a minimum period of 6 months from the date of entry into Singapore. If you’re intending to transit Singapore to neighbouring countries, make sure your passport is valid for at least 6 months. You may be refused entry or turned away by airlines if your passport does not meet this requirement.
Entry is normally refused if you have a damaged passport or pages missing. Make sure your passport is in good condition before arriving in Singapore. Being refused entry can result in significant cost and a long stay at the airport.
Travelling while pregnant
Women who are more than six months pregnant no longer need to get permission before travelling, but the final decision on the length of stay permitted rests with the immigration officer on arrival. Prior entry clearance is needed for women intending to give birth in Singapore. You can apply at the High Commission for the Republic of Singapore in London or the nearest Singapore Embassy/High Commission if you’re not in the UK.
Customs regulations
Importing certain controlled drugs and pirated copyright material is prohibited and there are restrictions on entering with items like replica guns, radio communications equipment, and weapons and ammunition (including empty cartridge cases and air guns). For more information visit the travellers section of the Singapore Customs government website.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
Arriving from the Middle East
If you’re arriving from an airport in the Middle East, you may be subject to screening for Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS). If you display symptoms, you may face quarantine or further testing.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are accepted for entry, airside transit and exit from Singapore. Your ETD should be valid for at least 6 months. No visa is needed on an ETD when entering or transiting Singapore.
