At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Coronavirus
There is an ongoing outbreak of coronavirus (COVID-19) globally. Singapore is also affected. You should comply with all screening measures put in place by the local authorities.
Visitors
As of 20 March, 23:59 local time, all visitors to Singapore including tourists, Singaporeans, Permanent Residents and Long Term Pass holders entering Singapore will be issued a 14-day Stay-Home Notice by the Singapore authorities on arrival. All visitors will also be required to provide proof of where they will serve the notice, for example a hotel or private residence. You may also be swabbed on arrival to test for the virus. Short-term visitors who are identified for testing but refuse to do so will not be allowed entry into Singapore.
You will not be granted permission to enter or transit Singapore if you have travelled to mainland China, Iran, Italy, the Republic of Korea, France, Spain or Germany within the last 14 days. Anyone with residency in Singapore returning from one of these countries will be required to go into self-isolation for two weeks. In addition, travellers entering or transiting Singapore and exhibiting fever / other symptoms of respiratory illness will be required to undergo a coronavirus swab test at checkpoints and will be required to self-isolate even if they test negative. Short-term visitors who are identified for testing but refuse to do so will not be allowed entry into Singapore.
From 13 March 2020, no cruise ships are allowed to dock in Singapore.
Transit
Passengers are currently allowed to transit in Singapore if they remain airside and transit within the same terminal. Passengers who need to clear immigration and therefore enter Singapore to collect bags and/or check in for an onward flight and/or those who need to transit to another terminal are currently being treated as ‘arrivals’ and are required to serve a 14-day Stay-Home Notice in Singapore before continuing their journey. Transits that require a change of airline or movement between Changi Airport Terminal 4 and other terminals always require passengers to clear immigration into Singapore.
Passengers who are not able to fulfil these requirements are advised to seek an alternative route.
Exams
Plans are being drawn up to deal with student disruptions, including exams, by Ofqual and other UK regulators.
Check the Singapore Ministry of Health website for full details.
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
Medical treatment
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 995 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
Healthcare in Singapore is of a high quality and expensive. You should take enough medication to cover your stay and carry it in your hand baggage. Not all UK prescribed drugs are available in Singapore. Some over-the-counter medications need a prescription. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and that your travel insurance also covers costs for medical repatriation.
Air quality
From June to October Singapore can experience high levels of pollution (haze) from land clearance fires in Indonesia. The haze can cause disruption to local and regional air travel, and the air pollution may have an impact on public health. Keep up-to-date with local information and seek medical advice on appropriate precautions. You should monitor the Pollutant Standards Index (PSI) updates and health advisories from the Singapore government.
Health risks
Mosquito-borne illnesses like dengue fever and chikungunya virus occur all year round. You should take appropriate precautions to avoid being bitten by mosquitoes.
UK health authorities have classified Singapore as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For information and advice about the risks associated with Zika virus, visit the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
Hand, Foot and Mouth Disease is common in Singapore with more serious outbreaks from time to time. Young children are particularly at risk.
