See Support for British Nationals Abroad for detailed advice on what the British High Commission can do to help you.
On-the-spot fines are common and can be given for a wide range of behaviours which are tolerated in the UK. You can be fined for littering and for smoking in some public places. It’s also illegal to import chewing gum to sell into the country, except for certain medical chewing gums.
Arrests and detentions
If you’re arrested, you may be detained for up to 48 hours. You won’t be allowed to speak with anyone, not even a lawyer, during this period.
The Singapore Constitution allows for access to a lawyer, but timeframes are not defined.
See our guide on Singapore’s legal and criminal system. See Arrested Abroad to find out how we can help if you’ve been arrested or detained.
Passports confiscated by police during investigations
If you’re under police investigation, your passport will be taken from you. It will be returned once the investigation is over. If you’re convicted, the passport will be handed back after you have served your sentence.
There is no set timeline for investigations. In most cases, you will not be allowed to leave Singapore while the case is open. You must be able to support yourself financially during this period.
The British High Commission cannot interfere in the criminal and legal process in Singapore. For more on Singapore’s legal and criminal system, see our Prisoner Pack.
E-cigarettes and smoking
You cannot bring vaporisers like e-cigarettes, e-pipes, e-cigars and refills into the country. These items are likely to be confiscated, and you could be fined or sent to prison.
The minimum age for the purchase, use, possession, sale and supply of all tobacco products in Singapore is 21 years old. You could be fined if you don’t comply.
Orchard Road is a No Smoking Zone. You can smoke at designated areas only. Smoking is banned at all public parks, all beaches and along certain waterways.
Drunk and disorderly conduct in public is an offence
You could be arrested for:
being found drunk and incapable in public
fighting and becoming a nuisance in public
resisting arrest, assaulting or hurting a public servant
touching someone inappropriately (whether resulting from drunken behaviour or not)
driving while drunk
drinking beyond the prescribed hours and the allowed areas
Depending on how serious the offence is, you could be fined, imprisoned, or caned.
Liquor Control Zones
It’s illegal to drink alcohol in a public place (besides restaurants, bars and licenced entertainment venues) between 10:30pm and 7am.
Geylang and Little India are ‘Liquor Control Zones’. Drinking in these areas is banned all weekend, on public holidays and on the eve of public holidays.
Offenders could be fined up to S$1,000 (approximately £500); repeat offenders could be fined and imprisoned.
Visa overstay
Penalties for overstaying your visa include fines, imprisonment, corporal punishment (caning) and deportation depending on how long you’ve overstayed.
LGBT
Homosexual acts and relationships are not illegal in Singapore. However, same-sex marriage and partnerships are not recognised in Singapore law. This means, for example, that foreign residents are not usually able to obtain a Dependents’ Pass for a same-sex spouse or partner, and children from a same-sex relationship may not be recognised as the child of both parents. Openly gay and lesbian support groups and social venues exist. It is possible to change legal gender in Singapore, subject to medical procedures. See our information and advice page for the LGBT community before you travel.
Outrage of modesty
You should avoid any action that could be interpreted as molestation. Scams involving false claims of molestation are thought to exist. Penalties for convicted offenders include a fine, imprisonment, and/or caning.
Death penalty and drugs
The death penalty exists for certain offences, including murder and drug trafficking. Trafficking is defined by possession of drugs above a certain amount (500g in the case of cannabis). There are severe penalties for all drug offences in Singapore, including possession. The Misuse of Drugs Act sets out the definitions.
It is possible to be tested for recent drug consumption upon arrival in Singapore, or in airport transit in Singapore, and to be charged with drug consumption even if the drugs were consumed overseas, including if they were consumed in a country where the use of that particular drug is legal.
Dual nationals and Permanent Residents
Singapore doesn’t recognise dual nationality beyond the age of 21. The following are liable for National Service:
all male Singapore citizens (including dual citizens below 21)
all male children granted Permanent Resident (PR) status as part of their parents’ PR application
Specific questions on National Service can be put to Singapore’s Central Manpower base: contact@ns.sg 
For further information see the following websites for Singapore - Immigration and Checkpoints Authority and  Ministry of Defence (MINDEF).
Other
Disrespecting public servants is treated seriously by the police.
A police permit is needed for any outdoor public assembly or procession. You should avoid street gatherings and public demonstrations as they might be illegal. Filming an illegal public gathering is also forbidden, as is the wearing or displaying of any ‘cause related’ material without permission.
Approval is needed for a foreign national to give a talk on ‘racial, communal, religious, caused-related or political topics’.
The public display of national flags or national emblems is illegal except where a specific exemption has been granted.
Both public and private Jehovah’s Witness meetings are illegal in Singapore. It is also against the law to possess any Jehovah’s Witness publication, including a Jehovah’s Witness bible. Similar measures exist against the Unification Church and the Shincheonji Church of Jesus.
Thorough checks may be carried out on departing travellers’ vehicles. Fingerprints may be scanned at border exit points.
The use of false ID is illegal.
There is zero tolerance for bribery. Any attempt to bribe or to otherwise prevent an official from carrying out their duties can result in arrest.
Acts of vandalism including graffiti carry harsh penalties such as fines, imprisonment and caning.
There are strict laws on rental of short-term accommodation.
