Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

There remain commercial options to return to the UK from Singapore.
If you live in the UK and are currently visiting Singapore, you are strongly advised to return to the UK now by commercial means. Don’t run the risk of being stranded.
UK special charter flights will only operate for priority countries where commercial flights are not possible. You should not assume that these flights will become available in countries where commercial routes are operating.
Flights
Singapore Airlines continue to run direct flights between Singapore and London, at a reduced schedule. These are the current details for April (subject to change):
Singapore Airlines - 3 times per week
You should check with your airline regularly ahead of your scheduled flight. The number of flights operating is reducing and continuing to change at short notice.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Travel via other countries
Qatar Airways continue to fly between Singapore and the UK via Doha. Transit passengers travelling to the UK are still able to transfer through Qatar. Availability on this route is limited. Flights are subject to change or cancellation at short notice.
There may be other indirect routes to the UK available. Before booking a flight, you should check requirements with your airline and consult travel advice for any entry or transit restrictions in place in countries on your flight route.
Arrival in the UK
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Further information
Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British High Commission on Twitter and Facebook.
See more information and advice about staying where you are if you cannot return to the UK.
