

Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.  
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Singapore
Terrorist attacks in Singapore cannot be ruled out.
Crime
Protecting your belongings
Violent crime and theft are rare in Singapore. Be aware of the risk of street crime, in particular bag snatching. Take care of your passport. Leave valuables in a hotel safe if possible. Do not leave valuables in unattended vehicles.
Scams
Be careful when approached by strangers. Scammers may try to win your trust, but then threaten to report you to the police for the crime of molestation. They will then offer to keep quiet in return for money. Online scams and phone scams are common and may involve individuals pretending to be officials or bank employees.
National Service for British dual nationals and permanent residents
The following are liable for National Service:
all male Singapore citizens
all male dual nationals aged 20 and under
all male children granted Permanent Resident (PR) status as part of their parents’ PR application
Specific questions on National Service can be put to Singapore’s Central Manpower base.
For further information, see the Immigration and Checkpoints Authority and Ministry of Defence (MINDEF).
Laws and cultural differences
Public offences
The public display of national flags or national emblems is illegal except where a specific exemption has been granted. It is illegal to use the Singapore flag and national symbols in ways considered disrespectful.
Police may give you an on-the-spot fine for littering. Acts of vandalism including graffiti carry harsh penalties such as fines, imprisonment and caning.
Disrespecting or intimidating a public official can be illegal. There is zero tolerance for bribery in Singapore and any attempt to bribe or otherwise prevent an official from carrying out their duties can lead to arrest.
Personal ID
Use of false ID is illegal in Singapore.
Outrage of modesty
You should avoid any action that could be interpreted as molestation. Scams involving false claims of molestation are thought to exist. Penalties for convicted offenders include a fine, imprisonment and caning.
Alcohol laws and bans
The authorities do not tolerate drunk and disorderly behaviour. It is illegal to drink alcohol in a public place, besides restaurants, bars and licensed entertainment venues, between 10:30pm and 7am.
You could be arrested for:
being found drunk and incapable in public
fighting and becoming a nuisance in public
touching someone inappropriately (whether resulting from drunken behaviour or not)
driving while drunk
drinking outside of allowed hours and areas
Penalties for convicted offenders include fines, imprisonment, and caning.
Geylang and Little India are ‘Liquor Control Zones’. Drinking in these areas is banned all weekend, on public holidays and on the eve of public holidays.
Smoking and e-cigarette bans
You must be 21 or over to purchase, use, own, sell or supply tobacco products in Singapore.
Smoking is banned at all public parks, all beaches and along certain waterways. Orchard Road is a No Smoking Zone. Make sure you smoke in designated areas only.
Illegal drugs
There are severe penalties for all drug offences in Singapore, including possession. Trafficking (‘intent to sell’) is defined simply by possession of drugs above a certain amount. The Misuse of Drugs Act sets out the definitions and penalties, which could include death, caning or detention without trial.
Arrests and detentions
If you’re arrested, you can be detained for up to 48 hours. You might not be allowed to speak with anyone, not even a lawyer, during this period.
Do not offer money to officials. You can face further charges or penalties for any attempt to bribe or prevent an official from carrying out their duties.
See our guide on Singapore’s legal and criminal system and Arrested Abroad to find out how we can help if you’ve been arrested or detained.
If you’re under police investigation, your passport will be taken from you. Your passport will be returned once the investigation is over. If you’re convicted, your passport will be handed back after you’ve served your sentence.
In most cases, you will not be allowed to leave Singapore while the case is open. There is no set timeline for investigations. You must be able to support yourself financially during this period.
The British High Commission cannot interfere in the criminal and legal process in Singapore.
Death penalty
The death penalty is a possibility for some offences, including murder and drug trafficking. Penalties for drug offences are severe and possession of even very small quantities can lead to the death penalty.
LGBT+ travellers
Same sex relationships are not illegal in Singapore. However, same sex marriage and partnerships are not recognised in Singapore law. This means, for example, that foreign residents cannot easily get a Dependent’s Pass for a same sex spouse or partner. Children from a same-sex partnership may not be recognised as the child of both parents.
It is possible to change legal gender in Singapore, subject to medical procedures.
LGBT+ support groups and social venues exist in Singapore.
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Protests and public demonstrations
Avoid street gatherings and public demonstrations as they will be illegal if they do not have police permission. Foreigners who are not Permanent Residents are prohibited from attending outdoor demonstrations regardless of police permission. Filming an illegal gathering is forbidden. The wearing of ‘cause-related’ T-shirts and displaying ‘case-related’ banners is prohibited in public.
It is illegal for foreign nationals to talk publicly on ‘racial, communal, religious, cause-related or political topics’ without a permit.
Religions
Both public and private Jehovah’s Witness meetings are illegal in Singapore. It is also illegal to possess any Jehovah’s Witness publication, including a Jehovah’s Witness bible. There are similar measures against the Unification Church and the Shincheonji Church of Jesus.
Transport risks
Road travel
If you are planning to drive in Singapore, see information on driving abroad and read the Singapore highway code.
You can drive with a UK driving licence for up to 30 days. After that you need a 1949 international driving permit (IDP) as well as your UK driving licence.
Hire car companies often have stricter requirements for their customers, such as a year of driving experience, minimum age and holding an IDP.
You cannot buy an IDP outside the UK, so get one before you travel. You can buy an IDP in person from some UK post offices – find your nearest post office branch that offers this service.
If you’re staying in Singapore on a longer term pass or you’ve become a Permanent Resident, you must get a Singaporean Driving Licence.
Driving under the influence of alcohol carries serious penalties including imprisonment. The traffic police regularly carry out breath tests.
If you’re involved in an accident, Singapore’s Road Traffic Act requires that you stay at the scene if there has been damage or injury. You must provide contact details, and inform the police within 24 hours.
Arriving or departing by car
If you are arriving in a car that is not registered in Singapore, visit the OneMotoring website to apply for a Vehicle Entry Permit.
Vehicles leaving the country will be checked against police records.
Air travel
The Singaporean authorities will prosecute cases of drunken or antisocial behaviour by air passengers on any aircraft registered in Singapore.
Sea travel
There have been attacks against ships in and around the waters of Singapore and the Malacca Strait. Set up secure areas on board and report all incidents to the coastal and flag state authorities.
