This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Singapore as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Singapore to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Singapore
The wearing of facemasks is compulsory for everyone when outside of their place of residence, except children under 2 or those engaged in strenuous exercise. Most shops, except food shops, banks and hairdressers, are closed. Food purchased from restaurants and food stalls must be taken away and eaten at home or at work.
You should not socialise with anyone outside your immediate household. However, two members of a single household are permitted to visit their parent’s home if they live elsewhere in Singapore. You should stay in your place of residence other than for essential work or for food, medical needs and exercise, and stay at least 1 metre away from anyone when out.
Read the Singapore Government article on the phased approach to resuming activities safely. for more information.
Those who do not comply with these measures will be fined. Repeat offenders will face further fines and/or prosecution. Be aware that restrictions and penalties are subject to change at short notice.
Health
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Singapore.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
If you’re in Singapore, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further Information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Check the Singapore Ministry of Health website for full details of Singapore’s Coronavirus response and restrictions.
