Travel to Singapore is subject to entry restrictions
Singapore Citizens and Permanent Residents can enter Singapore without permission. From 24 April, Long-Term Pass holders and short-term visitors are able to enter Singapore if they have pre-travel permission from the Singapore government. A PCR COVID-19 test is required 72 hours before departure from the UK, with a negative result needed in order to travel. All arrivals in Singapore from the UK must undergo 21 days of quarantine upon arrival (14 days in a government- designated facility, followed by 7 days at their place of residence). All arrivals must have three PRC COVID-19 tests after arrival; one upon arrival in Singapore, one after 14 days and one at the end of their 21 day quarantine period.
All arrivals in Singapore, from all locations, will be tested for COVID-19 upon arrival. All travellers to Singapore, from all locations, should continue to check for the latest information on entry restrictions and requirements. These are subject to change.
See Entry requirements for more information before you plan to travel.
Preparing for your return journey to the UK
If you’re returning to the UK from overseas, you will need to:
provide your journey and contact details before you travel
If your return journey to the UK transits another country, you should check whether it is subject to a travel ban or any other additional requirements. If so, contact your travel provider.
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
If you’re planning travel to Singapore, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) guidance on foreign travel insurance.
For information about COVID-19 vaccines, see the Coronavirus page.
Drunk and disorderly conduct is treated seriously. Penalties for convicted offenders include fines, imprisonment, and/or corporal punishment (caning). See Local laws and customs
It’s illegal to drink alcohol in public places from 10:30pm to 7am and all day on weekends in specific areas and designated Liquor Control Zones. Offenders will be fined. See Local laws and customs
You cannot bring e-cigarettes and related products into the country. There are also restrictions on tobacco products. See Local laws and customs
Penalties for drug offences are severe and can include the death penalty. Possession of even very small quantities can lead to imprisonment, corporal punishment (caning) or the death penalty.
Terrorists are likely to try to carry out attacks in Singapore. See Terrorism
The offence of ‘outrage of modesty’ (molestation) can result in a fine, imprisonment or corporal punishment (caning). Scams involving false claims of molest are thought to exist. See Local laws and customs
UK health authorities have classified Singapore as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For information and advice about the risks associated with Zika virus, visit the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
There is a risk of dengue fever in Singapore. See Health
Haze can affect air quality in Singapore. You should monitor the Pollutant Standards Index (PSI) updates and health advisories from the Singapore government. See Health
You can contact the emergency services by calling 995 (ambulance and fire) or 999 (police).
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.
The Overseas Business Risk service offers information and advice for British companies operating overseas on how to manage political, economic, and business security-related risks.
