Coronavirus travel health
If you test positive for COVID-19 whilst in Mauritius, you will need to self-isolate for 7 days. Free tests are available at hospitals across the island. Upon completion of your isolation period, you will be allowed to resume normal activities. If you are still symptomatic after 7 days, you should inform the Domiciliary Monitoring Unit before resuming your activities.
If you come into direct contact with a person who has tested positive for COVID-19, you will not be required to self-isolate but you should follow recommended sanitary measures including wearing a mask and social distancing. Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Mauritius on the TravelHealthPro website.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
There are commercial flights from Mauritius to the UK. Check with your travel company for the latest information.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Mauritius.
Returning to the UK
Travelling from and returning to the UK
Check what you must do to travel abroad and return to England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
If you plan to pass through another country to return to the UK, check the travel advice for the country you’re transiting. If you will pass through a red list country, book your hotel quarantine package before travelling to the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Mauritius
The Mauritian borders re-opened on 1 October. Some restrictions remain in place for unvaccinated travellers. You should follow the advice of the local authorities. See the Mauritius Now website for full details.
Accommodation
Some certified COVID-19 safe hotels have reopened for fully vaccinated tourists. Unvaccinated tourists must remain in their room in an official quarantine hotel for 14 days.
Public spaces and services
On 11 November 2021, Mauritian authorities announced some additional restrictions in public areas. Social distancing and wearing of face masks in public remains mandatory. Public transport is operating. Shops and schools are open. Beaches are open but picnics are not allowed. Most businesses including restaurants, fitness centres and cinemas are open to fully vaccinated people only. Nightclubs and bars remain closed. The restriction on numbers at social gatherings including marriages, funerals and cultural events is 50 people. Places of worship can only accommodate 10 people. Concerts and sports competitions are not allowed.
From 19 February 2022, to qualify as fully vaccinated in Mauritius, residents must have proof of vaccination with a full course of an approved vaccine plus a booster. If you test positive for COVID-19, you will need to get a medical certificate from a public hospital to qualify as fully vaccinated for one month from the day you tested positive. The requirement for a booster does not apply to tourists at this stage.
Healthcare in Mauritius
For contact details of English-speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
If you think you have COVID-19 symptoms, you should remain at home and call the Mauritian government’s 24 hour hotline on 8924 for advice.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Mauritius.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Mauritius
We will update this page when the Government of Mauritius announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Mauritian national vaccination programme started in January 2021. British nationals resident in Mauritius are eligible for vaccination. Guidance on how to get a vaccine in Mauritius has been issued by the Mauritian authorities.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in Mauritius, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
