This page has information on travelling to Mauritius. Check what you must do to return to the UK.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Mauritius set and enforce entry rules.
All travellers
Travellers do not need to present a negative PCR test before flying to Mauritius. Health or travel insurance covering COVID-19 related expenses is no longer mandatory for travellers, but is recommended. For the latest information on entry requirements to Mauritius, visit the Mauritius Tourism Promotion Authority page.
If you’re fully vaccinated
If you’re fully vaccinated, you can enter Mauritius without needing to quarantine. You will be required to take a COVID-19 test on arrival.
At least 14 days must have passed since your second dose of the vaccine. If you have received a single dose of Johnson & Johnson’s Janssen vaccine, at least 28 days must have passed before travel. The vaccine must be approved by Mauritian authorities.
Find out if you qualify as fully vaccinated in Mauritius on the Mauritius Now Travel Advice page
Proof of vaccination status
Mauritius will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 recovery and vaccination record and proof of COVID-19 vaccination issued in the Crown Dependencies. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
Residents of Mauritius
Mauritian citizens, resident permit holders and occupational permit holders are exempted from mandatory COVID-19 health insurance cover.
If you’re not fully vaccinated
If you’re not fully vaccinated, you will be subject to a COVID-19 test on arrival and must self-isolate for 7 days in accommodation of your choice. You must take an antigen test on day 7. If you test negative, you can freely explore the island from day 8 of your stay.
Find out if you qualify as fully vaccinated in Mauritius on the Mauritius Now Travel Advice Page.
If you’ve had COVID-19 in the past year
If you’re not fully vaccinated but have tested positive for COVID-19, you can enter Mauritius. You’ll need to show evidence that you have had either one dose of vaccination before contamination or have had a post-infection vaccination 14 days prior to travel (28 days for the Johnson & Johnson vaccine).
You can use the UK COVID Pass to demonstrate proof of COVID-19 recovery when entering Mauritius.
Children and young people
Children aged 17 and under travelling with a parent or guardian do not need to show proof of vaccination to enter Mauritius. COVID-19 testing will be required on arrival. An oropharyngeal swab can be collected for children aged 8 and under.
If you are transiting through Mauritius
Transiting is when you pass through one country on the way to your final destination.
Unvaccinated travellers can transit through Mauritius, and will not be required to go into self-isolation providing they do not leave the airport.
However, unvaccinated travellers who leave the airport, will be required to self-isolate for 7 days in accommodation of their choice.
Exemptions
There are no exemptions to Mauritius’ entry requirements.
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
Visas
You don’t need a visa to enter Mauritius. On arrival, your passport will be stamped allowing entry to the country for 60 days. You’ll need to be able to provide evidence of onward or return travel.
Passport validity
If you are visiting Mauritius, your passport should be valid for the duration of your stay. No additional period of validity beyond this is required. It should have at least one blank passport page.
Check with your travel provider to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are accepted for entry, transit and exit from Mauritius.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website
Returning to the UK
Check what you must do to return to the UK.
