Coronavirus guidance is being updated.
Read the Prime Minister’s address for the latest information.

There are currently no regular commercial flights from Mauritius to the UK. However, Air Mauritius will run a special flight to London Heathrow, departing from Mauritius at 10.30am on 19 May. Tickets are available by calling Air Mauritius directly on +230 207 7070 or +230 207 7575, or by visiting www.airmauritius.com. Social distancing will be in place on the aeroplane.
Air Mauritius entered into voluntary administration on 22 April. Those with existing Air Mauritius tickets or plans to use the airline in the coming months, other than for the special flight on 19 May, should look out for announcements from Air Mauritius or the administrator, Grant Thornton.
The Mauritian immigration services have confirmed that foreign nationals in Mauritius on a tourist entry do not need to extend their “leave to stay” period (as stamped in your passport on arrival) if it is due to expire during the current confinement period.
Help and support
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If you wish to travel on the special flight on 19 May but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should contact the British High Commission via email.
This page will be updated when departure options become available. To get the latest information, sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British High Commission on Facebook.
If you need urgent consular assistance or further assistance, you can contact the British High Commission via email
Your journey home
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Further information
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
