This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Mauritius as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Mauritius to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Mauritius
There are restrictions on movements throughout the country. Essential services including supermarkets and pharmacies remain open.
The lockdown has been extended until 1 June, with relaxation of some measures on 15 May. Social distancing and wearing of face masks in public remains mandatory. You should follow the advice of the local authorities.
Visas
The Mauritian immigration services have confirmed that foreign nationals in Mauritius on a tourist entry do not need to extend their “leave to stay” period (as stamped in your passport on arrival) if it is due to expire during the current confinement period.
Health
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Mauritius.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Mauritius, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
