The Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) advises against all but essential travel to:
the whole of Mauritius based on the current assessment of COVID-19 risks
From 4am on Saturday 9 January, visitors arriving into England who have been in or transited through Mauritius in the previous 10 days will not be permitted entry. British and Irish nationals, and third country nationals with residence rights in the UK arriving in England from Mauritius will be required to quarantine in a hotel. Different rules apply for arrivals into Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland.
The FCDO is not advising those already travelling in Mauritius to leave at this time. Travellers should follow the advice of the local authorities on how best to protect themselves and others, including any measures that they bring in to control the virus. You should contact your tour operator or airline if you have any questions about your return journey.
From 1 January onwards those with residence rights includes: holders of Indefinite Leave to Remain; holders of existing leave to enter or remain (i.e those with biometric Residence permits) or an entry clearance/visa that grants such leave e.g. students, workers, etc (excluding visit visas); holders of EU Settlement Scheme (“EUSS”) leave; those who have rights of entry under the Withdrawal Agreements (including returning residents with a right of residence under the EEA Regulations and EEA frontier workers); family members of EEA nationals with rights under the Withdrawal Agreement.
All travel to Mauritius remains subject to entry restrictions
The Government of Mauritius has, in response to the COVID-19 situation, advised that individuals who have been in the UK within the previous 14 days will not be allowed entry to Mauritius. On 25 January 2021, the Government of Mauritius announced that this measure will be in force until at least 28 February 2021.
Since 1 October, to enter Mauritius, you must:
Book airline travel and accommodation via the official Mauritian Tourism Promotion Agency website.
Undergo a period of “in room” quarantine in a government-approved hotel on a full board basis for 14 days on arrival.
Take a COVID-19 test no more than 7 days before your departure for Mauritius and demonstrate a negative test result on entry.
Take a COVID-19 test on the day of arrival, and on day 7 and day 14 of your stay. If at any point, you receive a positive test result, you will be transferred to a public medical facility for treatment.
See Entry requirements for more information before you plan to travel.
Preparing for your return journey to the UK
If you’re returning to the UK from overseas, you will need to:
provide your journey and contact details before you travel
check if you need to self-isolate on your return
If your return journey to the UK transits another country, you should check whether it is subject to a travel ban or any other additional requirements. If so, contact your travel provider.
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
If you’re planning travel to Mauritius, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCDO’s guidance on foreign travel insurance.
For information about COVID-19 vaccines, see the Coronavirus page.
Around 140,000 British tourists visit Mauritius every year. Most visits are trouble free.
The tropical cyclone season in Mauritius usually runs from November to May. See Natural disasters
You don’t need a visa to enter Mauritius. On arrival, your passport will be stamped allowing entry to the country for 60 days. You’ll need to be able to provide evidence of onward or return travel. See Visas
Drug trafficking carries severe penalties. See Local laws and customs
Terrorist attacks in Mauritius can’t be ruled out. See Terrorism
The Overseas Business Risk service offers information and advice for British companies operating overseas on how to manage political, economic, and business security-related risks.
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.
