Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Turkey on the TravelHealthPro website.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
From 4am 12 May, direct flights from Turkey to England will be prohibited. Different requirements apply for arrivals into Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland.
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Turkey.
Travel in Turkey
A curfew is currently in place until at least 5am on Monday 17 May.
During this time, other than a few exceptions, intercity travel will not be permitted by private vehicle during curfew hours if you are a Turkish citizen or a resident of Turkey. Travel by public transport is only possible with a travel permit, issued in exceptional circumstances including, but not limited to, attending the funeral of a family member, or travelling to hospital for medical treatment. Turkish citizens and residents can apply for travel permits through e-devlet or by calling ALO 199. These restrictions do not apply to those visiting for tourism.
Public transport will be limited to 50% capacity, with no standing passengers allowed.
HES codes for intercity travel and lodging
Turkish citizens and residents must request a HES (Hayat Eve Sigar) Code for domestic and international flights, train and ferry travel. As of 30 September the HES code will also be required when checking into accommodation including hotels, motels, boarding houses, pensions, camps etc. Some provinces also require submission of a HES code upon entry to public buildings, shopping malls and banks. This does not apply to foreign tourists. This can be done through the e-Devlet system, the ‘Hayat Eve Sığar’ smartphone application and by SMS.
IF YOU HAVE A TURKISH RESIDENT ID: Send a text message to phone number 2023 that includes (a) the letters “HES”, (b) your Turkish kimlik number (c) your year of birth, and (d) the number of days you will be traveling, plus 7 days. Put a single space between each item.
IF YOU HAVE TURKISH CITIZENSHIP: Send a text message to phone number 2023 that includes (a) the letters “HES”, (b) your Turkish kimlik number (c) the last four digits of the series number of your ID, and (d) surname, the number of days you will be traveling, plus 7 days should be used. Put a single space between each item.
Airlines also have information on their websites in English about the HES code, including:
SunExpress
Turkish Airlines
Pegasus
Public spaces and services
Provinces in Turkey are split into four tiers by COVID-19 risk: low, medium, high and very high. A map of Turkey illustrating these tiers is available from the Ministry of Health. This information will be updated regularly and you should check the status of your intended destination before travelling.
The wearing of masks is mandatory at all times outside the home throughout Turkey. This includes, but is not limited to, all public places, including streets, side streets, parks, gardens, picnic areas, markets, sea side and public transportation including Metro, buses, taxis and ferries. Masks are also mandatory in all shops, restaurants, hairdressers and barber shops.
Smoking in open areas (streets, avenues and other open public areas) is banned.
New COVID-19 restrictions will be in place until at least 17 May.
Restaurants and cafes will only be offering a delivery service. All businesses (except those with certain exemptions) will be closed.
Supermarkets, grocery stores, butchers and bakeries will operate between 10am and 5pm, Monday to Saturday, and from 7 May will sell essential items only: food, cleaning products, pet supplies, cosmetic products (but not make up). Chain supermarkets will be closed on Sundays. Residents are permitted to walk to their nearest store, for essential needs only. Older people, and those who cannot meet their own needs, are advised not to go out, and will receive assistance if they call 112, 155 or 156. Driving is not permitted. Swimming pools, gyms, football pitches, beauty salons, Turkish baths, amusement parks and internet cafes will be closed.
Turkish citizens and residents need HES codes (see the ‘Travel in Turkey’ section) to enter shopping centres.
Restrictions apply to all but temporary visitors for tourism. Residence permit holders who do not abide by COVID-19 restrictions may be issued with a fine of up to 3,150 TL (approximately £290) or have their residency cancelled. Follow Turkish announcements and local media for up to date information.
Curfews
Nationwide curfews are in place until at least 5am on 17 May.
In order to comply with the curfew, all businesses (except those with certain exemptions) will be closed until at least 5am on 17 May. Chain supermarkets will open from 10am to 5pm, Monday to Saturday. They will be closed on Sundays.
Older people, and those who cannot meet their own needs, are advised not to go out, and will be provided assistance if they called 112, 155 and 156.
These restrictions do not apply to those visiting for tourism.
See Travel in Turkey if you fall into one of these categories and need to travel.
Healthcare in Turkey
You should ensure that you are prepared for any unplanned or extended stays due to changes in COVID-related restrictions or your travel arrangements. If you take regular medication, make sure you have adequate supplies to cover you in case you are required to quarantine as a result of a positive COVID test.
British-issued prescriptions are not accepted in pharmacies in Turkey, although some medicines may be available over the counter.
If your medical supplies do run out whilst in Turkey it may be possible, in some cases, to liaise with Turkish hospitals and your GP to arrange for a Turkish prescription for the equivalent medicine.
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Turkey.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Turkey
The Turkish authorities have started the rollout of their vaccination programme. If you have valid residency and are registered with the health service you are eligible for the vaccine.
As further information is available about the national vaccination programme, this page will be updated. Sign up to get email notifications.
If you have not yet registered with the Turkish health service you should do so through the Enabiz website.
The details of foreign nationals may not automatically be included in the system which sends automatic appointments out. Even if you are already registered on the Enabiz system, you may still need to request a vaccine through the Enabiz website.
The Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) is the UK authority responsible for assessing the safety, quality and efficacy of vaccines. It has authorised the Pfizer/BioNTech, Oxford/AstraZeneca and Moderna vaccines for temporary supply and use in the UK. Find out more about MHRA approval for these vaccines.
British nationals living overseas should seek medical advice from their local healthcare provider in the country where they reside. Information about vaccines used in other national programmes, including regulatory status, should be available from the local authorities. This list of Stringent Regulatory Authorities recognised by the World Health Organisation may also be a useful source of additional information. Find out more about COVID-19 vaccines on the World Health Organisation COVID-19 vaccines page.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Returning to the UK
From 4am 12 May, direct flights from Turkey to England will be prohibited. Different requirements apply for arrivals into Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements. You should contact local authorities for information on testing facilities.
Visa overstays due to COVID-19
If you’ve outstayed your visa due to COVID-19, but did not leave before 11 July 2020, you’ll be banned from Turkey for a period of time, determined by the length of overstay.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
