This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Turkey set and enforce entry rules. For further information contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to. You should also consider checking with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Entry rules in response to coronavirus (COVID-19)
Entry to Turkey
All arrivals into Turkey, except Turkish citizens or residence permit holders, must complete an online form a maximum of 72-hours prior to travel. You do not need to do this if you’re transiting Turkey on the way to another country.
All arrivals into Turkey, from countries other than those mentioned below, must have proof of one of the following:
A full course of COVID-19 vaccinations
recent recovery from COVID-19
a negative PCR test (within 72 hours of arrival).
Arriving to Turkey from UK, Iran, Egypt or Singapore (aged 12 and above)
You will need a negative PCR test taken within the 72 hours prior to arriving in Turkey, regardless of vaccination status. This is not required for those passengers transiting Turkey on the way to another country.
Arriving to Turkey from Brazil, South Africa, Nepal and Sri Lanka
Passengers from Brazil, South Africa, Nepal and Sri Lanka are banned from entering Turkey until further notice. But passengers travelling from these countries may transit without entering Turkey.
If you are arriving in Turkey from another country but have been in Brazil, South Africa, Nepal or Sri Lanka in the last 14 days, you must:
submit a negative PCR test taken no more than 72 hours before arrival
quarantine for 14 days in government approved hotels at your expense. Such hotels must be booked prior to travel and confirmation of such booking must be presented before departure.
If the PCR test taken on the 14th day is negative, you can leave quarantine. If it is positive you will need to isolate for a further 14 days in the facilities.
Arriving in Turkey from Bangladesh, India and Pakistan
If you are arriving in Turkey from Bangladesh, India, or Pakistan, or have been in Bangladesh, India or Pakistan in the last 14 days, must submit a negative PCR test taken no more than 72 hours before arrival. You must obtain a PCR test regardless of your vaccination status.
You are exempt from quarantine if you have proof of two doses of vaccine (or one dose of the Johnson and Johnson vaccine) more than 14 days before arrival. Otherwise you must quarantine for 10 days at your address. If the PCR test taken on the tenth day is negative, you can leave quarantine.
Arriving in Turkey from Afghanistan
If you are arriving in Turkey from Afghanistan, or who have been in Afghanistan in the last 14 days, you must:
submit a negative PCR test taken no more than 72 hours before arrival
quarantine for 10 days in government approved hotels at your own expense. Such hotels must be booked prior to travel and confirmation of such booking must be presented before departure.
If the PCR test taken on the 7th day is negative, the you can leave quarantine.
If you are arriving from Afghanistan, or have been in Afghanistan in the last 14 days and have residency, a work permit in Turkey or Turkish citizenship, you may quarantine at a private address for a period of 10 days and must take a PCR test after 7 days. If the PCR test taken on the 7th day is negative, you can leave quarantine. Should you arrive at an entry point other than Ankara or Istanbul, however, you would be required to travel to your place of self-isolation by private vehicle.
Land and sea borders
Turkey’s international land and sea borders are open. However, short-notice changes, especially temporary closures of land borders, are possible and you should check access locally. International passengers wishing to transit through airports in Turkey on to a domestic Turkish flight will not be required to submit an HES code, unless the passenger is a Turkish citizen or resident of Turkey and the duration between the two flights exceeds 12 hours.
At the airport
You must wear a face mask at all times whilst in an airport, and for the duration of all flights, to and from Turkey.
Testing / screening on arrival
All arrivals into Turkey will be subject to a medical evaluation for symptoms of coronavirus, including temperature checks. Arrivals may be subject to random PCR testing on arrival.
Passengers from the UK require a negative PCR test, within 72 hours of arrival, to enter Turkey.
Data collection
You will need to complete a passenger locator form prior to arriving in Turkey. Details will be provided by your airline.
You will be asked to provide the residential address of where you will stay, within the borders of Turkey, and your contact information.
You may be asked by your airline to provide personal information regarding COVID-19 that may be shared with Ministry of Health and third countries when necessary. Anyone who knowingly provides false information may be prevented from travelling.
Regular entry requirements
Visas
British Citizens travelling to Turkey for tourist or business purposes are able to travel without a visa for visits of up to 90 days in any 180-day period.
If you plan to remain in Turkey for a period of more than 90 days, you should either apply for a longer stay visa before you travel, or get a residence permit from the local authorities in Turkey before your 90 day stay has elapsed. If you intend to work in Turkey, ensure you have the correct permits. More information is available from the Turkish Ministry of the Interior. If you do not abide by the terms of your visa or permit, you may be fined, deported and banned from re-entering the country.
If you’re entering Turkey via a land border crossing, make sure your passport has a dated entry stamp before you leave the border crossing area.
If you hold a different type of British nationality (eg BN(O), British Overseas Citizen, British Protected Person or British Subject), check visa requirements with the Turkish Consulate General before you travel. These types of passport are classed as ‘UK Special Passports’ in the Turkish e-Visa system. You will need to apply for a visa from the Turkish Consulate General before you travel.
Passport validity
The Turkish government advise that your passport should be valid for at least 6 months from the date you enter Turkey and that there is a full blank page for the entry and exit stamps. You can find more detail about the requirements for entry into Turkey on the website of the Turkish Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
Travelling with children
If you are leaving Turkey with a child who is a dual British-Turkish national, you may be asked to show the Turkish immigration authorities evidence that the Turkish parent has given permission for the child to travel.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETD) are accepted for entry, airside transit and exit from Turkey within the dates printed on the document. ETDs should be valid for a minimum period of 6 months from the date of entry into Turkey.
