At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The use or possession of some common prescription and over-the-counter medicines is controlled in Turkey. For more information on controlled medicines and the relevant documentation required, contact the nearest Turkish Embassy or Consulate before you travel. See this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC)
Coronavirus
The Turkish authorities have introduced a number of precautionary measures in response to the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic, including some restrictions on entry for travellers with recent travel history in certain countries.
There is a curfew in place for those aged over 65 or who have a chronic medical condition. People who must travel or leave home may do so after requesting official permission via the designated phone lines; 112, 155, and 156.
In response to the coronavirus (COVID-19) crisis, Turkey has ceased flights with Angola, Austria, Azerbaijan, Algeria, Bangladesh, Belgium, Cameroon, Canada, Chad, Czechia, China, Colombia, Djibouti, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Equatorial Guinea, Finland, France, Germany, Guatemala, Georgia, Hungary, India, Italy, Iraq, Iran, Ireland, Ivory Coast, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kosovo, Kuwait, Latvia, Lebanon, Montenegro, Mongolia, Morocco, Moldova, Mauritania, Nepal, Niger, Norway, the Netherlands, North Macedonia, Oman, the Philippines, Panama, Peru, Poland, Portugal, South Korea, Slovenia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Saudi Arabia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, Taiwan, Tunisia, Uzbekistan, United Arab Emirates, the U.K, Ukraine. All passengers who have travelled to the UK or one of the restricted countries during last 14 days are prohibited on all flights to Turkey.
Repatriation flights from Istanbul and Antalya to the UK will continue until 24 March. Options for leaving Turkey are becoming increasingly limited and if you wish to leave Turkey you should make arrangements to do so as soon as possible.
From 27 March, Turkish Airlines will only operate flights to five locations: Hong Kong, Moscow, Addis Ababa, New York and Washington.
You should check with your airline before travelling.
All passengers holding Turkish residence permits entering Turkey who have been in a banned country in the preceding 14 days will be tested on arrival for COVID-19. A positive test will lead to the passenger going straight to a government-run quarantine facility. A negative test will lead to mobility restrictions – either self-isolation or full quarantine for 14 days.
Land crossings with Greece, Bulgaria, Georgia, Iran and Iraq have also been closed.
Options for leaving Turkey are becoming increasingly limited and if you wish to leave Turkey you should make arrangements to do so as soon as possible.
You should carry additional supplies of necessary medication in carry-on luggage.
Keep up to date with information from your tour operator, transport or accommodation provider on the impact on any existing travel plans. Delays at airports are possible.
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
Medical treatment
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 112 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
The European Health Insurance Card (EHIC), is not valid in Turkey. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation.
