There are currently extremely limited commercial options available to return to the UK from Turkey.
The Turkish Government has implemented a ban on international flights until 1 June, however this is liable to be extended further. Normal, scheduled international flights will not resume until the ban is lifted. At present there is no information about how soon airlines will resume their operations after it is lifted. Occasional ad hoc flights are still operating.
If you have a future reservation for a flight from Turkey to the UK other than those listed below and on our social media @UKinTurkey, there is no guarantee that the flight will operate. Contact your airline for the latest information.
If you live in the UK and are currently visiting Turkey, you are strongly advised to return now by commercial means. Don’t risk getting stranded.
Flight options
The flight details below are provided for your information only. These flights are provided by commercial companies and are subject to change. For the latest information on flight status and availability, please check the flight operator’s website.
Istanbul to London via Minsk
Belavia Airlines are operating flights one to two times per week from Istanbul to London Gatwick, via Minsk:
tickets can be booked direct on the Belavia website
the Istanbul to Minsk flight departs early in the morning, which allows a same day connecting flight onward to London Gatwick. This can be booked on one ticket to allow for an easier journey with hold baggage
flights may be subject to change or cancellation at short notice. Contact the airline for the latest flight information
if you are in Istanbul or the surrounding area, you should consider taking this flight. You should also consider taking this flight if you are elsewhere in Turkey, but are able to travel to Istanbul
Istanbul to Amsterdam with next day connections to various UK airports
Turkish Airlines are operating a flight from Istanbul Airport to Amsterdam Schiphol on 2 June:
tickets may be booked directly on the Turkish Airlines website
next day connections to Aberdeen, Birmingham, Dublin, Edinburgh, Glasgow, Heathrow, London City, Manchester and Newcastle with KLM.
tickets may be booked directly on the KLM website
you will need to book overnight accommodation in Amsterdam. There is a range of accommodation available at the airport and there are no current restrictions on British nationals entering the Netherlands.
flights may be subject to change or cancellation at short notice. Contact the airline for the latest flight information
if you are in Istanbul or the surrounding area, you should consider taking this flight. You should also consider taking this flight if you are elsewhere in Turkey, but are able to travel to Istanbul
See ‘Travelling to the Airport’ section below for guidance on what documentation you may need.
Ankara to London Stansted
SunExpress are operating a direct flight from Ankara to London Stansted on Wednesday 3 June.
Tickets may be booked via the airline’s agent based in the UK, Caria Holidays Ltd. Bookings can be made by using the search function to find the flight.
This is a commercial flight operated by SunExpress, and normal airline policies on baggage allowances will apply. Adult passengers have a hold baggage allowance of 30kg and a cabin baggage allowance of 8kg. Infant passengers have a hold baggage allowance of 10kg and do not have a cabin baggage allowance.
Seats can be purchased by British nationals, and individuals of other nationalities providing they hold UK residency and meet UK immigration rules.
If you are in the Ankara province or the surrounding areas, you should consider taking this flight. You should also consider taking this flight if you are elsewhere in Turkey, but are able to travel to Ankara.
See ‘Travelling to the Airport’ section below for guidance on what documentation you may need.
Adana & Antalya to Dusseldorf
SunExpress are scheduled to operate flights from Adana and Antalya to Dusseldorf on Wednesday 3 June:
tickets are on sale via the SunExpress website
onward flights are available the next day to London Heathrow with Eurowings
onward tickets are on sale via the Eurowings website
these are commercial flights operated by Sun Express and Eurowings respectively, and all normal airline policies on baggage allowances will apply
passengers must also be in possession of an onward ticket to the UK to meet German immigration requirements
if you are in the vicinity of Adana or Antalya, you should consider taking these flights. You should also consider taking these flights if you are elsewhere in Turkey, but are able to travel to Adana or Antalya Airports
See ‘Travelling to the Airport’ section below for guidance on what documentation you may need
Ankara & Izmir to Dusseldorf
SunExpress are scheduled to operate flights from Ankara and Izmir to Dusseldorf on Thursday 4 June:
tickets are on sale via the SunExpress website
onward flights are available the next day to London Heathrow, Manchester and Birmingham with Eurowings
onward tickets are on sale via the Eurowings website
these are commercial flights operated by Sun Express and Eurowings respectively, and all normal airline policies on baggage allowances will apply
passengers must also be in possession of an onward ticket to the UK to meet German immigration requirements
if you are in the vicinity of Ankara or Izmir, you should consider taking these flights. You should also consider taking these flights if you are elsewhere in Turkey, but are able to travel to Ankara or Izmir Airports
See ‘Travelling to the Airport’ section below for guidance on what documentation you may need
Ankara to Stuttgart
SunExpress are scheduled to operate flights from Ankara to Stuttgart on Thursday 4 June:
tickets are on sale via the SunExpress website
onward flights are available the next day to London Heathrow with Eurowings
onward tickets are on sale via the Eurowings website
these are commercial flights operated by Sun Express and Eurowings respectively, and all normal airline policies on baggage allowances will apply
passengers must also be in possession of an onward ticket to the UK to meet German immigration requirements
if you are in the vicinity of Ankara, you should consider taking these flights. You should also consider taking these flights if you are elsewhere in Turkey, but are able to travel to Ankara Airport
See ‘Travelling to the Airport’ section below for guidance on what documentation you may need
Konya to Copenhagen
SunExpress are scheduled to operate once weekly flights from Konya to Copenhagen from Wednesday 10 June:
tickets are on sale via the SunExpress website
onward flights are available the same day to London Heathrow, Manchester and Dublin with Scandinavian Airlines System (SAS)
tickets are on sale via the SAS website
these are commercial flights operated by Sun Express and SAS, respectively, and all normal airline policies on baggage allowances will apply
passengers must be in possession of an onward ticket to the UK to board this flight and may not pass through immigration to enter Denmark
if you are in the vicinity of Konya, you should consider taking these flights. You should also consider taking these flights if you are elsewhere in Turkey, but are able to travel to Konya Airport.
See ‘Travelling to the Airport’ section below for guidance on what documentation you may need.
Travelling to the airport
Turkey has imposed restrictions on internal travel. You will need a travel permit:
to travel from some cities to another
to go to the airport during a curfew
if you are aged over 65 or under 18 and need to travel within the same city
A number of these restrictions will end on 1 June, see Coronavirus
To request a travel permit, submit a request to the British Embassy Ankara. Make clear in the subject box that you are enquiring about a permit to travel, and have proof of your onward journey out of Turkey.
Regular bus services are not currently operating in most areas. The following transport providers have been able to offer transfer options previously and are operating services according to demand at reasonable prices:
Company Location Contact details
Turse Taşımacılık Antalya info@turse.com.tr
Guney Akdeniz Bus Company Antalya (covering Ankara, Adana and Izmir to Antalya)  
Koral Travel Marmaris (covering all Mugla region including Bodrum, Marmaris and Fethiye) Phone: +90 252 412 9948 (10:00-17:00) /+90 532 216 9817 (24/7) rentacar@koraltravel.com
Didim Sehayat Didim Bus Station (operating between Didim- Izmir Airport or Didim- Izmir Bus Station) Phone: +90 256 811 1736 (contact by phone to arrange transport) online ticket sales are not currently available
CTS Didim (also will arrange transfers from Kuşadasi) Phone: +90 256 813 7200
This list of service providers is for information only. None of the service providers are endorsed or recommended by the British Embassy Ankara. You should research whether a service provider will be suitable. The British Embassy Ankara does not accept any liability arising to any person for any loss or damage suffered through using these service providers or this information.
Registering with the British Embassy
If you’re a British national normally resident in the UK who is visiting Turkey, you’re encouraged to register with the British Embassy to allow us to monitor the situation more closely. Contact the British Embassy via registerturkey@fco.gov.uk, providing the following information for you and all members of your party:
full name (as it appears in your passport)
British passport number
date of birth
contact phone number
current location in Turkey and nearest international airport
country of residence
any current health issues
if there are children under the age of 18 or adults over the age of 65 in your group
the airline with which you travelled to Turkey
The mailbox is for registration purposes only. Your personal details will be kept in confidence and will not be shared beyond our consular teams.
Financial assistance
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK.
For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Your journey home
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
If you’re returning home before 8 June, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others. From 8 June there will be new rules for entering the UK.
Help and support
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British Embassy, Consulate or High Commission.
The Embassy cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone. This page will be updated when departure options become available. To get the latest information, sign up for travel advice email alerts.
The British Embassy is issuing regular updates on Twitter and Facebook with the latest available information on flight departure options from Turkey.
If you cannot leave Turkey
If you cannot leave Turkey at this time, see advice on staying in Turkey during coronavirus.
