This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Turkey as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Turkey to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Turkey
For information on entering Turkey, see Entry Requirements.
The wearing of masks is obligatory throughout Turkey in crowded places and specifically in markets and supermarkets, hairdressers and barber shops. The wearing of masks is also compulsory on all public transport, including Metro, buses, taxis and ferries, and in some areas, masks must be worn when travelling in private vehicles with more than one person.
In addition to the above, the wearing of face masks is mandatory at all times outside the home in the following provinces:
Adıyaman, Afyonkarahisar, Agri, Amasya, Ankara, Ardahan, Aydın, Balıkesir, Bartın, Batman, Bilecik, Bitlis, Bolu, Burdur, Bursa, Çanakkale, Denizli, Diyarbakır, Düzce, Elazığ, Erzurum, Eskişehir, Gaziantep, Giresun, Iğdır, Isparta, Istanbul, İzmir ,Kahramanmaraş, Karabük, Kayseri, Kırklareli, Kocaeli, Konya, Kütahya, Malatya, Mardin, Muğla, Muş, Nevşehir, Ordu, Osmaniye, Rize, Sakarya, Siirt, Sivas, Şanlıurfa, Şırnak, Tokat, Tunceli, Uşak, Yalova, Yozgat and Zonguldak.
Those who do not abide by this rule may be issued with a fine of 900 TL (approximately £106). Follow Turkish announcements and local media for up to date information.
Anyone wishing to undertake intercity travel using public transport is required to obtain an “HES” (“Hayat Eve Sığar”) code. This can be done through the e-Devlet system, the ‘Hayat Eve Sığar’ smartphone application and by SMS.
Non-Turkish nationals with a domestic flight connecting to/from an international flight which is booked on the same ticket, do not currently require an HES code. Where a domestic flight is booked separately or with a different airline, an HES code is required.
For international travel, Turkish nationals are required to obtain an HES code, however this does not apply to non-Turkish nationals, including British visitors to Turkey.
For intercity travel, British nationals without a residence card can obtain a HES code by sending their passport details by SMS to 2023 in the following format: HES [space] Nationality (GBR) [space] passport number [space] year of birth [space] surname. Example: HES GBR 123456789 1980 SMITH. You will need to use the passport which you entered Turkey on, and the SMS message must be sent from a mobile phone registered on a Turkish mobile network.
If you are over 65, you will also need a travel permit and must remain at your destination for a minimum of 30 days unless travelling for an international flight. Individuals under 18 no longer require a permit to either travel within the same city, or undertake intercity travel. When travelling they must, however, be accompanied by a parent or guardian, aged below 65 years of age.
Curfews
There remains an ongoing curfew for those aged over 65, those born after 1 January 2002, and those who have a chronic medical condition, with the following exceptions:
Adults over 65 years old are allowed outside, between 10am and 8pm on a daily basis.
People under 18 years of age are allowed outside at any time but must be accompanied by a parent or guardian.
Beyond these exemptions, people in these categories must not leave their homes. See “Moving around in Turkey” if you fall into one of these categories and need to travel.
Domestic travel
A reduced schedule of domestic flights has been operating since 4 June.
Train services between (Ankara-Konya, Ankara-Istanbul, Ankara-Eskisehir and Konya-Istanbul) are operating on a reduced timetable. Inter-city coach services are operating on a reduced schedule. Check with travel providers before booking.
Visas
Turkish authorities have confirmed that any foreign nationals who overstay their visa, due to COVID-19, will not face any fines or penalties, provided they depart Turkey within 1 month of flights resuming to their country of citizenship. British nationals in Turkey who have overstayed their visa should make arrangements to leave Turkey by 11:59pm Turkish time on 11 July.
If you have not left by then, you will be subject to penalties as follows:
Those departing from 12 July to 11 October will incur an administrative fine;
Those departing from 12 October onwards will be banned from Turkey for a period of time determined by the length of overstay.
If you’re a British national in Turkey and have overstayed your visa, you should therefore make arrangements to leave Turkey by 11:59pm Turkish time on 11 July.
Health
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Turkey.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Turkey, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you can apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
