The FCDO advise against all travel to:
areas within 10 km of the border with Syria, except the city of Kilis (see below)
The FCDO advise against all but essential travel to:
all other areas of Sirnak, Kilis (including Kilis city) and Hatay provinces
the provinces of Diyarbakir, Tunceli and Hakkari
the whole of Turkey based on the current assessment of COVID-19 risks
For more information on these areas, see Local travel and Terrorism
Flights between the United Kingdom and Turkey are operating at a reduced frequency. If you were due to travel to/from the United Kingdom please contact your travel operator. Further updates will be published when they are available. Check our advice on things to consider, and be prepared to stay overseas longer than planned.
If you are returning to the UK from Turkey, you will need to self-isolate on your return (unless you are exempt). Check the latest guidance for England, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales.
Travel to Turkey is subject to entry restrictions
The Turkish Government have implemented a series of COVID-19 travel restrictions that are affecting flight operations between the United Kingdom and Turkey.
Whilst direct flights were temporarily suspended, flights have resumed at a reduced frequency, and on a commercial basis, to repatriate passengers. There are no current plans for UK Government repatriation flights from Turkey. If you need to travel you must do so by commercial means using the options available.
If you are in Turkey and wish to return to the United Kingdom, direct commercial flights are available with British Airways, Pegasus Airlines and Turkish Airlines. Tickets can be purchased direct from the airlines via their normal points of sale. If you held a ticket for a flight on one of these airlines that was cancelled, you should contact them directly to discuss your rebooking options.
If you are in the United Kingdom and wish to return to Turkey, direct commercial flights are available with Pegasus Airlines and Turkish Airlines. Tickets can be purchased direct from the airlines via their normal points of sale. If you held a ticket for a flight on one of these airlines that was cancelled, you should contact them directly to discuss your rebooking options. You must be a Turkish citizen or hold a valid Turkish residence permit to be accepted onto a flight to Turkey, or be a transit passenger travelling on one ticket via Turkey to another international destination.
You should note that only Turkish air carriers are permitted to bring passengers from the United Kingdom to Turkey under the current restrictions until 29 January 2021 at the earliest.
You should be aware that all flights are operated on a commercial basis by airlines and may be subject to change or cancellation at short notice. For the latest flight information, you should contact airlines directly.
All arrivals into Turkey will be subject to a medical evaluation for symptoms of coronavirus, including temperature checks. All passengers who have visited the UK will be required to undergo a PCR test on arrival in Turkey.
Passengers who have visited the UK will then be required to self-isolate for seven days starting from the date they left the UK. On day seven they will be subjected to a further PCR test. If that test is negative then quarantine will be ended.
From 21:00 UTC on 29 December, passengers of 6 years age and over who have visited the UK within the last 10 days will be required, before boarding, to submit a negative PCR test result completed within 72 hours of their arrival into Turkey. Passengers will then be required to self-isolate for seven days upon arrival. On day seven, they will be subjected to a further PCR test. If that test is negative, their quarantine will be lifted.
See Entry requirements for more information before you plan to travel.
Preparing for your return journey to the UK
If you are due to travel from Turkey to UK, contact your airline directly. UK operators will be permitted to carry British nationals back to UK. But you should confirm your flight status with the airline.
If you’re returning to the UK from overseas, you will need to:
provide your journey and contact details before you travel
check if you need to self-isolate on your return
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
If you’re planning travel to Turkey, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCDO’s guidance on foreign travel insurance.
British nationals made over 2.5 million visits to Turkey in 2019. Most visits are trouble free. Be alert to your surroundings and remain vigilant in crowded places popular with foreign nationals, including during festival periods.
If you’re travelling to Turkey for tourist or business purposes, you are able to travel without a visa for visits of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. See Visas
Many parts of Turkey are subject to earthquakes. You should familiarise yourself with safety procedures in the event of an earthquake and follow the advice of the local authorities. See Natural disasters
The situation has calmed following an attempted coup in July 2016. A state of emergency imposed after the coup attempt has been lifted, although some restrictions remain in place. See Political situation
Terrorists are very likely to try to carry out attacks in Turkey. Terrorist groups, including PKK, Daesh (formerly referred to as ISIL) and far left organisations, continue to plan and carry out attacks. Further attacks could be indiscriminate. Most attacks have taken place in the south-east of the country, and in Ankara and Istanbul. While there is a potential that citizens from western countries may be targets or caught up in attacks, particularly in the major cities, attacks are most likely to target the Turkish state, civilians and demonstrations. You should be vigilant, follow the advice of local security authorities, monitor media reports and keep up to date with this travel advice. See Terrorism
It’s illegal to be a member or supporter of a terrorist organisation in Turkey, including expressions of support on social media. Some organisations in the region though not proscribed in the UK, such as the YPG and the Gülen Movement are illegal in Turkey.
You should carry your passport and a printed copy of your visa (if applicable) or residence permit at all times. In some busy areas, especially Istanbul, the Turkish authorities are stopping members of the public to conduct ID checks. See Local laws and customs
There have been reports of an increase in holidaymakers being encouraged to submit a claim for personal injury if they have experienced gastric illness during their stay. You can find more information about the action you can take if you have suffered a personal injury on the Citizens Advice website. You should only consider pursuing a complaint or claim if you have genuinely suffered from injury or illness. If you make a false or fraudulent claim, you may face legal proceedings in the UK or Turkey.
You can contact the emergency services by calling 155 (police), 112 (ambulance) and 110 (fire).
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission. Consular support is severely limited in parts of Turkey where the FCDO advise against travel, and limited in the areas where the FCDO advise against all but essential travel.
