!
Warning
FCDO advises against all travel to parts of Turkey.

The Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) provides advice about risks of travel to help British nationals make informed decisions. Find out more about FCDO travel advice.
Attack on Turkish Aerospace Industries
On 23 October there was a terrorist attack on Turkish Aerospace Industries’ facility in Kahramankazan, 40km northwest of central Ankara, which resulted in 5 deaths and 22 injuries, as well as the deaths of the two assailants. While the incident has ended, the response is ongoing, including increased security measures at Turkish airports, which means security checks will take longer than normal. If you are in the area near the attack, follow the advice of the local authorities and monitor local media.
Areas where FCDO advises against travel
Your travel insurance could be invalidated if you travel against advice from the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO).
Turkey-Syria border
FCDO advises against all travel to within 10km of the border with Syria due to fighting and a heightened risk of terrorism.
Find out more about why FCDO advises against travel.
Support from the UK government
While 24-hour consular assistance is available by phone or online, in-person consular support is severely limited in areas where we advise against travel.
Before you travel
No travel can be guaranteed safe. Read all the advice in this guide and any specific travel advice that applies to you:
women travellers
disabled travellers
LGBT+ travellers
solo and independent travel
volunteering and adventure travel
Travel insurance
If you choose to travel, research your destinations and get appropriate travel insurance. Insurance should cover your itinerary, planned activities and expenses in an emergency.
About FCDO travel advice
The Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) provides advice about risks of travel to help British nationals make informed decisions. Find out more about FCDO travel advice.
Follow and contact FCDO travel on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram. You can also sign up to get email notifications when this advice is updated.
