Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Egypt on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Egypt.
Returning to the UK
Travelling from and returning to the UK
Check what you must do to travel abroad and return to England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
If you plan to pass through another country to return to the UK, check the travel advice for the country you’re transiting. If you will pass through a red list country, book your hotel quarantine package before travelling to the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements. You should contact local authorities for information on testing facilities.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Public spaces and services
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Egypt to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
The Egyptian authorities’ response to the coronavirus is evolving, and local measures may change and new restrictions be introduced at short notice and without warning.
There are restrictions on cafes, bars, hotels and tourist locations operating at a reduced capacity. The authorities may announce the closure of public spaces, including parks and beaches at short notice, in particular around public holidays. You should follow the guidance of the local authorities. The wearing of face masks is mandatory in closed public spaces, including government buildings, private offices, malls, retail outlets and public transport including private taxis. Legal penalties could be applied for non-compliance.
Healthcare in Egypt
The Egyptian authorities may impose mandatory quarantine for visitors who test positive for coronavirus in a government isolation hospital. Access for family members could be heavily restricted or impossible. Egyptian state facilities may be below UK standards.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Egypt.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Egypt
We will update this page when the Government of Egypt announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Egyptian national vaccination programme started in January 2021 and is using the Pfizer, AstraZeneca, Janssen (Johnson and Johnson), Sputnik V, Sinopharm, and Sinovac vaccines. The Government of Egypt has stated that British nationals resident in Egypt are eligible for vaccination if they choose to join the programme.
An Egyptian government website is open to the public for registration. An English language version of the website is available by selecting the icon at the top left of the page.
Following vaccination, the authorities will issue a stamped vaccination card. If you wish to have a QR-linked vaccination certificate, you can obtain these from designated vaccination centres for a fee of EGP100 for Egyptian citizens or USD10 for foreign nationals. The certificate includes the registration number, full name, passport number, National ID card number (for Egyptian citizens), date of birth, name of vaccine, date of first and second doses, a pin code, QR code, and a security seal. There are plans to introduce a digital COVID Vaccination Pass (iPhone and Android mobile app). Those who wish to get vaccinated with specific vaccines (currently Pfizer, AstraZeneca and Janssen (Johnson and Johnson)) for travel purposes will need to indicate this during registration and will be assigned to vaccination centres that administer these vaccines. Following vaccination, you will be provided with a QR-linked vaccination for a fee of EGP250 for Egyptian citizens and USD25 for foreign nationals.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in Egypt, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
