This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Egypt set and enforce entry rules. For further information contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to. You should also consider checking with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Entry rules in response to coronavirus (COVID-19)
Entry to Egypt
The Egyptian authorities have advised that all arrivals into Egypt will be subject to health measures. Passengers from all countries will be required to complete a monitoring card with personal details, and will need to provide confirmation of valid health insurance policy to airport authorities. Passengers arriving from countries where C19 variants of concern have been identified may be required to undertake a rapid COVID-19 test (ID NOW) on arrival.
The Egyptian authorities have advised that all arrivals into Egypt will be subject to health measures. Passengers from all countries will be required to complete a health declaration with personal details, and will need to provide confirmation of valid health insurance policy to airport authorities. Passengers arriving from countries where C19 variants of concern have been identified may be required to undertake a rapid COVID-19 test (ID NOW) on arrival, which if positive will lead to a subsequent PCR test to determine if isolation at a government hospital is necessary.
Passengers holding a COVID-19 vaccination certificate are exempt from presenting a negative PCR test on arrival. The vaccination certificate must be issued by an accredited laboratory in the country of issue and linked with a QR code. Passengers are required to have had 14 days pass after receiving full doses for the Pfizer, Moderna, AstraZeneca, Sinopharm, Sinovac, Sputnik V, and Janssen (Johnson and Johnson) vaccines. Passengers arriving from countries where COVID-19 variants of concern have been identified may still be required to undertake a rapid COVID-19 test (ID now) on arrival, which if positive will lead to a subsequent PCR test. You should check specific requirements with your airline before you travel.
All persons (including those who hold Egyptian nationality) arriving from overseas must have proof of one of the following:
A full course of COVID-19 vaccination (completed at least 14 days prior to arrival in Egypt); or
A negative PCR test (taken within 72 hours prior to departure) Children under the age of 6 are exempt. Proof of COVID-19 recovery will not be accepted.
Some airlines are imposing special requirements, such as the wearing of face masks. You should check specific requirements with your airline before you travel.
Vaccination Certificates
The Egyptian authorities have advised that COVID-19 vaccination certificates must be issued by an accredited laboratory in the country of issue and linked with a QR code. Vaccinated passengers must have received the full course of either the Pfizer, Moderna, AstraZeneca, Sinopharm, Sinovac, Sputnik V, and Janssen (Johnson and Johnson) vaccines at least 14 days prior to arrival in Egypt. Passengers arriving from countries where COVID-19 variants of concern have been identified may still be required to undertake a rapid COVID-19 test (ID NOW) on arrival, which if positive will lead to a subsequent PCR test to determine if isolation at a government hospital is necessary.
Demonstrating your COVID-19 status
Egypt will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 vaccination record. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
PCR Test Certificates
The Egyptian authorities have advised that PCR tests must be conducted no more than 72 hours prior to flight departure. Passengers arriving from London Heathrow only are permitted to have their PCR test conducted no more than 96 hours prior to flight departure. PCR certificates must be issued by an accredited laboratory in the country of issue, and must be stamped or have a QR code.
You should not use the NHS testing service to get a test in order to facilitate your travel to another country. You should arrange to take a private test.
Testing in coastal governorates
The Egyptian authorities have advised that tourists arriving directly at airports in the coastal governorates of the Red Sea (Hurghada and Marsa Alam), South Sinai (Sharm El Sheikh), and Marsa Matrouh have the option of taking a PCR test on arrival for a fee of USD30 (passengers holding a COVID-19 vaccination certificate that meets the requirements are exempt). After testing you will be required to self-isolate at your hotel until you receive your test result. The Egyptian authorities will be in touch and will advise whether you need to continue self-isolating. Test results are expected to become available within 12 to 24 hours.
If your test result is positive, the Egyptian authorities are likely to ask you to self-isolate for up to 14 days in a separate room allocated for quarantine within your hotel. If symptoms persist, you may be transferred to a public hospital. You may also choose to go to a private hospital, under the supervision of the Ministry of Health. During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCDO’s guidance on foreign travel insurance.
You must comply with all instructions given by the Egyptian authorities. Failure to do so may result in you being refused permission to enter Egypt and/or legal enforcement.
COVID-19 entry requirements may change at short notice. You should check with your airline to confirm specific requirements, including around PCR tests, well in advance of travel.
Regular entry requirements
Visas
British passport holders travelling to Egypt normally need a visa.
You can get a visa before you travel from the official Visa2Egypt portal or your nearest Egyptian consulate. Tourist visas granted using the e-visa system are valid for a maximum of 3 months. It is advisable to get a visa before you travel, particularly if travelling for work or business.
If you wish to get a visa on arrival, you can do so at approved bank kiosks within airport arrival halls, before reaching immigration counters. The visa fee is US$25, payable in in pounds sterling, US dollars or euros. Visas granted on arrival are valid for a maximum of 30 days. There’s no need to buy a visa from an agent. In many cases agents will charge more than US$25 for a visa. If you’re harassed by an agent, report the incident to the tourist police in the airport terminal.
If you’re travelling to Sharm el Sheikh, Dahab, Nuweiba and Taba resorts for up to 15 days, you will receive a free entry permission stamp upon arrival. If you intend to travel out of these areas or stay longer than 15 days, you must get a visa.
If you have travelled to one of the South Sinai Red Sea resorts, entered without a visa and your plans have changed, you can normally purchase a visa at Sharm el Sheikh airport to allow you to travel elsewhere.
Applications for visa extensions should be made at Egyptian Passport and Immigration Offices. You may have difficulties leaving Egypt with an out of date visa. You will not normally be allowed to leave without paying a fine if your visa is out of date by more than 14 days.
For further information and enquiries, contact the Egyptian Consulate in London.
Passport validity
Your passport should be valid for a minimum period of 6 months from the date of entry into Egypt.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are accepted for exit from Egypt, but not accepted for entry or transit. To leave Egypt on an ETD you will need to visit an Egyptian Passport and Immigration Office to complete the exit formalities. Some passport offices outside of Cairo may assist, but in many cases you will have to complete the formalities at the Passport and Immigration Office, 12 Al Seka Al Bayda, Sarayat, Waily, Abbassia, (next to the Abbassia Police Academy), Cairo. Tel: 00227956301. Opening hours for the office are 8am to 2.30pm, Saturday to Thursday. Immigration clearance may take up to 5 working days for tourists and up to 2 weeks for residents. You should adjust your travel plans accordingly.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
Previous travel to Israel
Evidence of a previous visit to Israel like as an Israeli entry/exit stamp in your passport does not normally cause any difficulties when entering Egypt. It is, however, for the Egyptian authorities to determine the right of entry into the country. If you have any concerns, you should contact the  Egyptian consulate.
Work permits 
Evidence of testing for HIV is required if you are applying for a work permit.
Medication
Some prescribed and over the counter medicines that are available in the UK are considered controlled substances in Egypt and can’t be brought into the country without prior permission from Egypt’s Ministry of Health. If you arrive in Egypt without this permission and the required documentation, the medication will not be allowed into the country and you may be prosecuted under Egyptian law.
If you’re travelling with prescription medication you should carry a medical certificate confirming that the medication has been prescribed for a medical condition. The Egyptian Embassy website states that this should be in the form of an official letter from your GP, specifying details of your condition, the quantity of medication you will be carrying and that the medication is for your personal use only.
For further information and specific queries, contact the Egyptian Medical Office in London on 020 7370 6944.
Customs regulations
There’s a limit of 5,000 Egyptian pounds that you are allowed to bring in or take out of Egypt. There is no limit to the amount of hard currency that you may bring in, but sums that exceed USD 10,000 should be declared on arrival. Certain valuables like electrical equipment, video cameras etc must be declared on arrival. Satellite phones and radio communications equipment brought into Egypt without prior clearance from the Ministry of Telecommunications are likely to be confiscated. Electrical items noted in passports on entry to Egypt must be produced on exit from the country. Failure to do so will result in payment of high rates of customs duty. Contact the Egyptian embassy in your country of residence for further information on customs requirements.
