At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information regarding entry with specific medication, please see the medication section in Entry requirements
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Local medical care
In an emergency dial 123 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your travel company and your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
There are reports of some hotel doctors overcharging for treatment and medicines. Examine your bill closely and challenge excessive charges. Pharmacies outside hotels will often supply medication at lower prices.
Access to specialised treatment for psychiatric illness is limited and may not be available outside major cities.
Coronavirus
There is an ongoing outbreak of coronavirus (COVID-19) in China and in some other countries, including in Egypt.
The Egyptian authorities have introduced a number of measures to limit the spread of the virus. You should comply with any additional measures put in place by the local authorities. This could include enhanced medical screening on arrival, with the potential for further follow-up health measures and restrictions. The Egyptian authorities may impose mandatory quarantine in a local isolation hospital for up to 14 days for visitors who test positive for coronavirus.
Some countries are imposing restrictions on travel from Egypt. If you are travelling from or through Egypt, you should check the situation at your destination before you travel.
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
You can find more information about cases in Egypt on the TravelHealthPro website.
