Local laws reflect the fact that Egypt is predominantly an Islamic country. Be aware of local traditions, customs, laws and religions at all times and take care that your actions do not offend other cultures or religious beliefs. This is especially important during the holy month of Ramadan or if you intend to visit religious areas. Dress modestly, especially in rural areas, mosques and souqs (markets). Public displays of affection are frowned upon. What may be acceptable in the tourist resort areas may not be in other areas.
In 2023, the holy month of Ramadan will start in March and conclude in April. See Travelling during Ramadan
The government does not interfere with the practice of Christianity but encouraging conversion to the Christian faith is illegal.
Photo ID
You should keep valid photo ID with you at all times.
Alcohol
Drinking alcohol in the street and anywhere other than a licensed restaurant or bar is not allowed and can lead to arrest.
Drugs
Possession, use or trafficking in illegal drugs is a serious offence and can, even for small amounts, lead to lengthy prison sentences (25 years), life imprisonment or the death penalty. Those sentenced to life imprisonment on drugs charges will normally spend the rest of their life in prison with no possibility of parole or pardon. Khat is illegal in Egypt.
Social media
Publicising strongly negative opinions about Egypt or making political comments, including about the President or security forces, can cause trouble with the authorities. In some cases, derogatory comments on social media have led to custodial sentences.
Photography
Professional photography or film equipment of any kind will require a permit. This includes photography umbrellas; artificial outdoor lighting gear, and any equipment that occupies or blocks public roads. It is forbidden to take or share photographs that can be perceived as damaging to the country’s image. Egyptian citizens can only be photographed after obtaining written permission from them. Do not photograph officials without their consent. Taking pictures of children is also prohibited.
Photography of, or near, military official installations is strictly prohibited. This includes the Suez Canal. There are sensitivities about taking photographs of Embassies, government buildings, churches and religious buildings, as well as infrastructure. British nationals have been arrested for photographing churches, electricity stations, train stations and bridges. If you are in any doubt seek permission before taking photographs. Do not use radio controlled helicopters or ‘drones’ to take photographs.
Drones
The import, production or use of unmanned aircraft systems (drones) is banned in Egypt unless you have prior authorisation from the Egyptian Ministry of Defence. Citizens who use, manufacture or import drones without the appropriate authorisation will be punished by prison terms ranging from one to 7 years and/or fines ranging from EGP 5,000 to EGP 50,000.
LGBT / sexual relations
Although same-sex sexual activity is not explicitly criminalised in Egypt, the charge of “debauchery” has been used to prosecute LGBT people. The flying of a rainbow flag at a concert in September 2017 led to the arrest of at least 66 individuals on debauchery charges. There is little public acceptance of homosexuality in Egypt. Public expressions of homosexuality and/or public displays of affection between same-sex couples are likely to receive a high degree of unwelcome attention. See our information and advice page for the LGBT community before you travel.
Be cautious about sharing content or having discussions of a sexual nature on social media, especially about sexual acts that are considered illegal. In some cases this has led to arrest and even custodial sentences.
Children and young people
Egyptian family law is very different from UK law and particular caution is needed when, for example, child custody becomes an issue. The FCDO has published guidance for those affected by international parental child abduction, including options to consider and contact information for organisations which may be able to help.
