Coronavirus guidance is being updated.
Read the Prime Minister’s statement for the latest information.

There are limited options available to return to the UK from Egypt. Scheduled flights to and from Egypt are suspended. This page will be kept updated with the latest information we have on all upcoming viable commercial options to return to the UK.
You are responsible for making your own travel arrangements to the airport which could be during curfew hours. Egyptian authorities may ask to see your ticket and passport on the journey to the airport.
If you live in the UK and are currently visiting Egypt, you’re strongly advised to return now by commercial means. Don’t risk getting stranded.
The Egyptian authorities have announced that, from 1 July, international flights will be permitted to and from Egyptian airports. You should check with your airline well in advance of travel on any special requirements for passengers.
Air Cairo flight
Air Cairo is operating a flight from Cairo to London Heathrow departing on Friday 19 June. Bookings can be made on the Air Cairo website.
EgyptAir flights
EgyptAir is operating a flight from Cairo to London Heathrow on Thursday 18 June.
Bookings can be made by calling the EgyptAir reservations office:
From an Egyptian landline: 0900 70000
From an Egyptian mobile: 1717
From an international line +971 4 435 8444
Bookings can be made in person at EgyptAir offices.
Lufthansa flights
Lufthansa is operating flights from Cairo to Frankfurt on: Tuesday 16 June, Wednesday 17 June, Friday 19 June, Monday 22 June, Wednesday 24 June, Friday 26 June, Sunday 28 June, and Tuesday 30 June. Bookings can be made on the Lufthansa website or by calling the Lufthansa Sales Office in Egypt on 02 258 03500 from 8:30am to 3:00pm, Sunday to Thursday. Passengers will be required to bring and wear a face mask.
Options for onward travel to the UK might be limited. Make sure you have arrangements in place before booking and check FCO travel advice for Germany.
AirFrance flights
AirFrance is operating a weekly flight from Cairo to Paris starting Saturday 6 June. Bookings can be made on the AirFrance website. Options for onward travel to the UK might be limited. Make sure you have arrangements in place before booking and check FCO Travel Advice for France.
These flights may fill up at short notice; we will endeavour to keep this page updated with the latest information.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Your journey home: re-entering the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK. You:
need to provide your journey and contact details up to 48 hours before you’re due to arrive in the UK
are not allowed to leave the place you’re staying for the first 14 days you’re in the UK except in very limited situations (known as ‘self-isolating’)
See also the list of people who are exempt from the border rules.
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) also provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
Future travel options
This travel advice will be updated when further options to depart Egypt become available. Sign up for email alerts and follow the British Embassy Cairo on Facebook and Twitter.
If you cannot leave Egypt at this time, see advice on staying in Egypt during coronavirus.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British Embassy on 02 2791 6000.
The Embassy cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone. Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British Embassy Cairo on Facebook and Twitter.
