This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Egypt as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Egypt to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
The local authorities have announced that during the Eid Al-Fitr holiday (24 May to 29 May) curfew hours will be extended from 1700 to 0600. Public transport will be suspended. Shops, restaurants parks, leisure centers and public beaches will be closed. Supermarkets, grocery stores and pharmacies will remain open. Similar restrictions will remain in place after this period.
Starting 30 May, the wearing of face masks will be mandatory in ‘any closed public space’, including government buildings, private offices, malls and retail outlets. Legal penalties could be applied for non-compliance.
Restrictions and guidance from the local authorities are likely to change at short notice.
Moving around in Egypt
For information on entering Egypt, see Entry Requirements
The Egyptian response to the coronavirus is evolving, local measures may change and new restrictions be introduced at short notice and without warning. There are currently restrictions in place including an overnight curfew, as well as on public gatherings, schools, universities, cafes, bars, clubs, malls, hotels, public transport, public gathering places and tourist locations.. Please follow the guidance of the local authorities.
Health
The Egyptian authorities may impose mandatory quarantine for visitors who test positive for coronavirus in a government isolation hospital, potentially in a remote location. Access for family members could be heavily restricted or impossible. Egyptian state facilities may be below UK standards. View Health for further details on healthcare in Egypt.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Egypt, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
You can find more information about cases in Egypt on the TravelHealthPro and WHO websites.
