!
Warning
FCDO advises against all travel to parts of Egypt.

The Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) provides advice about risks of travel to help British nationals make informed decisions. Find out more about FCDO travel advice.
Areas where FCDO advises against travel
Your travel insurance could be invalidated if you travel against FCDO advice. Consular support is also severely limited where FCDO advises against travel.
Egypt-Libya border
FCDO advises against all travel to within 20km of the Egypt-Libya border, except for the town of El Salloum (where we advise against all but essential travel).
North Sinai
FCDO advises against all travel to the Governorate of North Sinai.
Northern part of South Sinai
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to the northern part of the Governorate of South Sinai, beyond the St Catherine-Nuweibaa road, except for the coastal areas along the west and east of the peninsula.
The eastern part of Ismailiyah Governorate
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to the Ismailiyah Governorate east of the Suez Canal.
Western Desert
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to the area west of the Nile Valley and Nile Delta regions, except for:
Luxor, Qina, Aswan, Abu Simbel and the Valley of the Kings
the Governorate of Faiyum
the coastal areas between the Nile Delta and Marsa Matruh
the Marsa Matruh-Siwa Road
the oasis town of Siwa
the Giza Governorate north-east of the Bahariya Oasis
the road between Giza and Farafra (but we advise against all but essential travel on the road between Bahariya and Siwa)
Bahariya Oasis, Farafra, the White Desert and Black Desert
Hala’ib Triangle and Bir Tawil Trapezoid
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to the Hala’ib Triangle and the Bir Tawil Trapezoid.
Find out more about why FCDO advises against travel.
Conflict in neighbouring Israel and the Occupied Palestinian Territories (OPTs)
The Israeli government has declared a state of emergency across the whole country. International borders in Israel and the Occupied Palestinian Territories (OPTs) could close at short notice. As a result, the land border into Israel from Egypt at Taba could close with little notice. Check with local authorities and consult the travel advice for Israel and the Occupied Palestinian Territories before trying to cross the border.
In response to events in Israel and the OPTs, a number of demonstrations have taken place in Egypt and protests have been planned, including after Friday prayers. Demonstrations could take place at short notice, with a heavy security presence in place. You should avoid large gatherings, demonstrations and protests. See Safety and security
Entering Egypt from Gaza
The Rafah border crossing partially opened on 1 November. This is primarily to facilitate the evacuation of seriously wounded Palestinians and some foreign nationals. We understand that the crossing will continue to be open for controlled and time-limited periods to allow specific groups of foreign nationals, including British nationals, to cross. It is for the Egyptian and Israeli authorities to determine who is permitted to cross, and when. The Egyptian Ministry of Foreign Affairs will contact Embassies to let them know when their foreign nationals can cross. Should we receive notification from the Israeli and Egyptian authorities that individuals are permitted to cross, we will notify those people individually.
Movement to the Rafah crossing and beyond is at your own risk. You should only travel if you judge it is safe to do so. Check the Israel and The Occupied Palestinian Territories travel advice.
The Egyptian authorities have said all aid going into Gaza from Egypt must be channelled through the Egyptian Red Crescent:
telephone: + 20 226 703 979, + 20 226 703 983
fax: + 20 226 703 967
They are unlikely to consider requests for humanitarian access made in Egypt at short notice.
Concern for friends and family
If you are concerned about friends or family, or need consular assistance call:
British Embassy Cairo on + 20 (0)2 2791 6000
+44 1767 667 600  (UK number) if you experience technical difficulties with the above number
Incidents in South Sinai  
On 27 October, an Egyptian Armed Forces spokesperson confirmed that an unidentified drone fell near a medical facility in the Egyptian Red Sea resort town of Taba next to the Israeli border, injuring six people. An additional unidentified drone also struck outside the town of Nuweiba, though no casualties have been confirmed. The authorities are conducting ongoing investigations.
Incident in Alexandria
On 8 October 2023, an Egyptian police officer is reported to have shot and killed two Israeli tourists and an Egyptian tour guide in Alexandria. A third tourist was injured. Remain vigilant and exercise caution at tourist and religious sites, as well as public gatherings. Find out more information on current risks on the Safety and security.
Border crossings from Sudan
There are still people trying to cross the border into Egypt at Argeen and Qustul. Our ability to provide consular assistance is very limited.
If you are a British national and have crossed the border without valid documentation, contact the British Embassy in Cairo for consular assistance on + 20 (0)2 2791 6000.
Before you travel
No travel can be guaranteed safe. Read all the advice in this guide as well as support for British nationals abroad which includes:
advice on preparing for travel abroad and reducing risks
information for women, LGBT+ and disabled travellers
Follow and contact FCDO travel on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram. You can also sign up to get email notifications when this advice is updated.
Travel insurance
If you choose to travel, research your destinations and get appropriate travel insurance. Insurance should cover your itinerary, planned activities and expenses in an emergency.
