Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for the United Arab Emirates on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in the United Arab Emirates.
Travel within the United Arab Emirates
COVID-19 cases continue to be recorded in the UAE and public health measures are in place in response to the outbreak. These can vary between each Emirates and the ease of movement between regions is affected. The local rules may change, including at short notice. You should check them carefully before you travel and whilst you are in the UAE, and ensure you comply.
The UAE authorities have stated that any violation of instructions and procedures put in place to limit the spread of COVID-19 will be treated as a crime punishable by law.
Since 2 June 2020, travel by land to the Emirate of Abu Dhabi has been restricted although movement within the Emirate of Abu Dhabi is allowed. The rules for entering and remaining in Abu Dhabi change regularly and you should check the current requirement from the Abu Dhabi Media Office and on the Emirates News Agency website.
Public spaces and services
Most shops, restaurants, tourist attractions and religious establishments are open but there are restrictions and requirements in place to help contain the disease. Social distancing and the wearing of face masks is mandatory when away from your home. This also applies to visitors staying in hotels when they are not in their room.
Most schools across the UAE reopened at the start of the 2020/21 academic year with a number of COVID-19 measures in place. Some have since closed following COVID-19 outbreaks. All schools in Abu Dhabi and some schools in Dubai moved to remote learning at the beginning of 2021 although some are starting to reopen with COVID-19 measures in place.
Many events in the UAE have been cancelled. If you are planning to attend a specific event, check with the organisers.
The introduction of the ‘Green Pass’ on the ‘Al HOSN’ App for access to public places in Abu Dhabi has been temporarily suspended. Further information is available on the Abu Dhabi Media Office website.
Healthcare in the United Arab Emirates
You should keep up to date with local public health measures and comply with instructions. If you fail to do so you risk being fined or imprisoned.
Information about the UAE’s approach can be found on the website of the Ministry of Health and Prevention through its COVID-19 Information Centre. You can also keep up to date with information via official sources such as the UAE Government Portal, Dubai Media Office and Emirates News Agency.
If you develop coronavirus symptoms whilst in the UAE, you should contact your travel insurance or healthcare provider for further advice.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in the UAE.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccinations if you live in UAE
Wherever possible British nationals should aim to be vaccinated in the country where they live. As further information is available about the national vaccination programme, this page will be updated. Sign up to get email notifications.
COVID-19 vaccinations are available on an equal basis to UAE Citizens and UAE Residents including British Residents. There are set priority criteria for access to COVID-19 vaccinations based on age, occupation and pre-existing medical conditions. Further information about COVID-19 vaccinations in the UAE is available from Abu Dhabi Health Services, the Dubai Health Authority and the Ministry of Health and Prevention.
The Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) is the UK authority responsible for assessing the safety, quality and efficacy of vaccines. It has authorised the Pfizer/BioNTech, Oxford/AstraZeneca and Moderna vaccines for temporary supply and use in the UK. Find out more about MHRA approval for these vaccines.
British nationals living in the UAE should seek medical advice from their healthcare provider if they have any concerns about COVID-19 vaccinations.
This list of Stringent Regulatory Authorities recognised by the World Health Organisation may also be a useful source of additional information. Find out more about COVID-19 vaccines on the World Health Organisation COVID-19 vaccines page.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK including COVID-19 testing rules for people travelling to England, Scotland, Northern Ireland or Wales.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements. You should contact your airline - Emirates Etihad Airways or British Airways or local health authorities for Dubai and Abu Dhabi for information on testing facilities.
From 8 June, direct flights can arrive in England from the UAE, but they must arrive at dedicated terminals at Heathrow and Birmingham airports. Different requirements may apply for arrivals into Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland.
Further information
If you need urgent consular assistance whilst in the UAE contact:
British Embassy Dubai
British Embassy Abu Dhabi
All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
