The information on this page covers the most common types of travel and reflects the UK government’s understanding of the rules currently in place. Unless otherwise stated, this information is for travellers using a full ‘British Citizen’ passport.
The authorities in the country or territory you’re travelling to are responsible for setting and enforcing the rules for entry. If you’re unclear about any aspect of the entry requirements, or you need further reassurance, you should contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
Holders of full British passports will be granted a free of charge visitor/tourist visa upon arrival in the UAE. No application in advance of travel is needed. Your passport will be stamped with the visa as you pass through Immigration. The visa issued at the airport for British passport holders is valid for 30 days.
Entry rules in response to coronavirus (COVID-19)
Testing before arrival
COVID-19 entry requirements may change at short notice, and travellers to the UAE are strongly encouraged to check the specifics, including the time frames for undertaking COVID-19 PCR tests before departure with their airline before they travel. Further details are available on British Airways, Emirates and Etihad websites including information about what these airlines accept as proof of a negative test.
From 31 January, residents, tourists and visitors travelling from or through the UK and arriving in Dubai must have a negative COVID-19 PCR test which was taken no more than 72 hours before departure and present the certificate at check in. Travellers may also be required to undertake a further COVID-19 PCR test on arrival in Dubai and will have to isolate pending the result of the COVID-19 PCR test. Further details are available on British Airways and Emirates.
If you test positive for COVID-19 on arrival in Dubai, depending on your symptoms and your accommodation plans, you may be required to self-isolate in a government facility, a hospital, your hotel or privately arranged accommodation for at least 10 days.
For the rest of the UAE, all travellers have to undertake a COVID-19 PCR test in the country they are currently in, and have proof of a negative result, before travelling to the UAE. Those travelling to Abu Dhabi or through the UK and certain other countries are required to undertake a COVID-19 PCR test within 72 hours of departure and have a negative result. Travellers to Abu Dhabi are also required to have a test on arrival. Further details are available on Etihad Airlines Website.
If you are transiting through the UAE to a country that requires a COVID-19 PCR test on arrival, then you must obtain a negative COVID-19 PCR test before travelling.
In all circumstances, the test must be a COVID-19 PCR swab test. Other test results including antibody tests are not accepted.
Further information about COVID-19 testing for travellers is available on the National Emergency Crisis and Disasters Management Authority website. Children under the age of 12 and those with severe and moderate disabilities will be exempted from the test requirement. Those entering the country may also be asked to take a further COVID-19 PCR test on arrival and to complete a period of self-isolation or quarantine.
You should not use the NHS testing service to get a test in order to facilitate your travel to another country. You should arrange to take a private test.
Entry to the United Arab Emirates other than Dubai
Some foreign residents, including British Nationals, are being allowed to return to the UAE based on criteria set by the UAE authorities. Visitors have been allowed to travel by air to Abu Dhabi with effect from 24 December 2020. Travellers to Abu Dhabi from the UK must have had a negative COVID-19 PCR test within 72 hours of departure. Travellers to Abu Dhabi will also be tested on arrival.
Visitors can travel to Abu Dhabi by road but must have had a negative COVID-19 PCR test before travel. There is also a requirement for further testing if visitors and residents remain in Abu Dhabi for 4 days or longer. The rules for entering and remaining in Abu Dhabi change regularly and you should check the current requirement from the Abu Dhabi Media Office and on the Emirates News Agency website.
All arrivals in Abu Dhabi must isolate for 10 days on arrival although arrivals from certain countries as listed on the Visit Abu Dhabi website will not be required to isolate.
All arrivals in Abu Dhabi will be required to wear a medically approved wristband for the duration of their quarantine. The wristband will be provided at Abu Dhabi airport after clearing immigration. Arrivals under the age of 18, over the age of 60, diplomats or those suffering from a chronic disease will be exempt from having to wear the wristband. Further information is available on the Etihad Airlines website including a guide for arrivals in Abu Dhabi. Further advice for international arrivals in Abu Dhabi is also available from the Abu Dhabi Media Office.
The National Emergency Crisis and Disasters Management Authority announced on 12 August 2020 that, apart from Dubai, there is no longer a requirement for residents who wish to return to the UAE to get permission to travel. Further information is available on the National Emergency Crisis and Disasters Management Authority website.
Dubai residents returning to or leaving Dubai
Dubai residents overseas have been allowed to return to Dubai from 22 June 2020 and Dubai residents within Dubai have been allowed to travel overseas from 23 June 2020. Further information about what returning residents need to do before they travel and what will happen on arrival in Dubai is available on the Government of Dubai website including information about testing on arrival and quarantine.
Dubai residents must apply for a permit to return on the Dubai Government General Directorate of Residency and Foreigners Affairs website. Before they fly returning residents will also be required to complete a Health Declaration Form and a Quarantine Form. Both forms need to be printed, completed and handed over to Dubai Health Authority staff on arrival. Further information about how to book a flight for returning residents is available on the Emirates Airline website.
On their return to Dubai, returning residents will have to register their details on the COVID-19 DXB App.
Visitors to Dubai
Visitors have been able to travel to Dubai from 7 July 2020. Further information about what visitors need to do before they travel and what will happen on arrival in Dubai is available on the Government of Dubai website including information about testing before departure, on arrival and quarantine.
Before visitors fly to Dubai, they will also be required to complete a Health Declaration Form and a Quarantine Form. Both forms need to be printed, completed and handed over to Dubai Health Authority staff on arrival. Visitors to Dubai will also have to register their details on the COVID-19 DXB App.
Visitors must have international health insurance before travelling.
All visitors to Dubai must adhere to all public health measures issued by the Dubai authorities including any requirements to quarantine.
Quarantine requirements
Stringent entry restrictions remain in place upon arrival at all airports in the UAE which may include, but are not limited to, a Health Authority COVID-19 PCR test on arrival, mandatory quarantine period, usually via self-isolation at a private address if suitable, or a hotel or Government facility and follow up testing before you are able to complete quarantine. Once any quarantine period is complete you must continue to comply with all measures put in place by the UAE authorities to prevent the spread of COVID-19.
Arrivals from countries that the UAE authorities consider high risk, and/or for whom the authorities assess private accommodation in the UAE to be unsuitable, are likely to be required to quarantine in a government quarantine facility.
Cruise ships
Passenger cruises are currently not allowed to dock in the UAE as a result of measures taken to combat COVID-19. A UAE-wide notice to mariners has issued.
The Cruise Line International Association (CLIA) has adopted an enhanced member health policy which all CLIA ocean member cruise lines are required to follow to address COVID-19.
If you are planning to travel on an international cruise that is due to call at any port in the UAE, contact your travel company for the latest information.
Visas
The UAE Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation (MOFAIC) has a visa hotline: +971 (0)9 208 3344.
If you have any questions on the validity or expiry of your visa, contact UAE Immigration directly. You can find out further information about visas on the General Directorate of Residency and Foreigners Affairs website for Dubai or the Federal Authority for Identity and Citizenship website for the rest of the UAE.
If you’re living outside the UAE, contact the nearest UAE Embassy for advice.
Exit rules in response to coronavirus (COVID-19)
With effect from 18 January, all travellers to England, Scotland, Northern Ireland or Wales from abroad, including UK nationals returning home, must provide evidence of a negative COVID-19 test result taken up to 3 days before departure. If you do not comply (and you do not have a valid exemption) your airline or carrier may refuse you boarding and/or you may be fined on arrival.
With effect from 1 August 2020, all travellers departing from Abu Dhabi to the EU will need to have a negative COVID-19 PCR test result taken within 96 hours prior to their departure. This is also a requirement for travellers to other countries that require a negative COVID-19 PCR test before arrival. Children under the age of 12 and those with severe and moderate disabilities will be exempted from the test requirement.
Transit passengers from some countries are required to conduct a COVID-19 PCR test prior to departure for Dubai. The pre-travel test is also mandatory for transit passengers if their destination country requires them to do so. Further information is available on the Dubai Media Office website
All travellers departing from the UAE to the UK will also be required to complete the UK Government Public Health Passenger Locator Form online and provide a printed copy at the airport before departing the UAE.
Further information is available on the National Emergency Crisis and Disasters Management Authority website. Further information about testing facilities in the UAE is available on the UAE Government Portal.
Regular entry requirements
Living and working in the UAE
If you have entered Dubai on a visit visa and you wish to work then you should get a probationary work permit, valid for up to 3 months, from the Ministry of Labour. If you don’t get this permit and are caught working while on a visit visa, then you risk being jailed or fined and deported.
For further information, including on how to stay in the UAE for longer than 60 days, visit the websites of the UAE Embassy in London, the Naturalisation and Residency Department – Dubai or the UAE Federal E-Government Portal.
If you apply for a residence visa, you will have to take a blood test. Those testing positive for HIV or hepatitis are detained and then deported. There is no appeal process.  
UAE employers may ask foreign employees to deposit their passports with the company as part of the terms and conditions of employment. While this is not an unusual practice, it is illegal under UAE labour law.
You should cancel your work visa before leaving the UAE permanently. If you don’t do this, you risk being reported as an absconder and could be arrested if you return to the UAE, even if you are in transit to another country. Failure to repay debts or resolve any outstanding cases against you may also result in your arrest on return or transit through the UAE.
If you have any doubt about your status before returning to the UAE seek advice from a local lawyer.
Passport validity
Your passport should be valid for a minimum period of 6 months from the date of entry into the UAE. If you hold a residence permit, your passport must be valid for at least 3 months in order to travel to the UAE.
If you’re transiting the UAE (and not passing through Immigration) your passport only needs to have a minimum of 3 months validity from the date of transit.
Medication
If you’re planning to travel with any prescribed or over the counter medicines for personal use, you’ll need to meet the UAE’s specific requirements for your medicine to be allowed into the country.
If you’re entering the country with medication that the UAE classes as narcotic, psychotropic, controlled or semi-controlled, approval is needed from the UAE authorities. A list of medicines where this rule applies, allowed quantities and documents to present can be found on the UAE Ministry of Health website.
Approval can be requested in advance or on arrival. To gain approval prior to travelling, you can apply online using the electronic application form and accompanying user guide on the UAE Ministry of Health website. The UAE authorities advise that applications are normally processed within 5 working days. If you arrive in the UAE without prior approval, you will be asked to present the documents cited on the list above. It is not guaranteed that you will receive approval.
If you arrive in the UAE without prior approval or the required documentation, the medication will not be allowed into the UAE and you may be prosecuted under UAE law. If you need more information on controlled medicines or the process for obtaining permission, you should contact the UAE Ministry of Health by emailing info@moh.gov.ae or calling +971 800 11111.
If you’re travelling in transit through a UAE airport and do not intend entering the UAE, or are entering the UAE with other types of medicine not listed in the above, you’re not required to go through this approval process.
In all cases, there are limits on the amount of medication that can be brought into the UAE legally. The Ministry of Health advise that you can bring up to 3 months’ supply of medication as a visitor, reduced to one month’s supply if the medication is included in the list requiring approval.
Previous travel to Israel
UAE immigration authorities have advised that British nationals with valid or expired Israeli visas or stamps in their passports should not face any difficulties entering the UAE as long as they don’t intend to work. If you do intend to work, further checks may be required and there is a risk that entry may be refused.
If you are a British-Israeli dual national and have any concerns about entering the UAE, contact the Embassy of the United Arab Emirates in London.
Regular exit requirements
Visitors must have legal status in the UAE when they depart. If you are subject to a travel ban, involved in legal proceedings, have unpaid debt or are a child subject to a custody dispute, you may be prevented from leaving the country.
Thermal scanning is in operation at airports. Departing passengers may be subject to testing, quarantine and medical treatment in the UAE.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents are accepted for airside transit and exit from the United Arab Emirates, but not for entry into the UAE. If you are requesting an ETD to leave the UAE, you must check with UAE Immigration which documents you will need to present to leave the UAE. This will depend on the circumstances and you should allow time to do this. If your passport has been lost or stolen you will need to obtain a police report from a local police station. It can take a number of days to complete this process and you may need to reschedule your flight.
