At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. In the UAE, some prescribed and over the counter medicines are considered controlled substances and can’t be brought into the country without prior permission from the UAE Ministry of Health. See Medication
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Coronavirus
The UAE authorities have introduced a number of measures to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19) within the UAE.
You should comply with any additional measures put in place by the local authorities. This includes the requirement for anybody arriving in the UAE to self-isolate for a period of 14 days and possible further follow-up health measures and restrictions. You should be aware that public health measures and restrictions in the UAE may change quickly and may be significant.
The UAE authorities have stated that any violation of instructions and procedures put in place to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19) will be treated as a crime punishable by law.
With effect from 19 March only UAE Citizens are allowed to enter the UAE. All UAE Residents who are abroad will not be allowed to re-enter the UAE for a period of at least two weeks. This period could be extended. Please contact your nearest UAE Embassy for further advice.
There is now a reduced airline service to and from the UAE and it may be completely suspended with short notice. We know that some airlines have already cancelled all flights to and from the UAE and Emirates Airlines have confirmed that they will temporarily suspend passenger flights from 25 March. If you are in the UAE, and it is essential that you return to the UK, you should consider urgently contacting your airline or tour operator and arrange to leave as soon as possible but be aware that currently only UAE citizens are allowed to return to the UAE.
The UAE Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation (MOFAIC) has provided a hotline for holders of valid UAE Residence visas who wish to return to the UAE: +971 (0)9 208 3344.
Visitors are not allowed to enter the UAE until further notice.
If you are transiting through a UAE airport to another destination please check with your carrier before travelling.
Some routes to and from the United Arab Emirates by air, land and sea have been suspended. You should check with your travel provider before travelling.
We understand that passenger cruises are currently not allowed to dock in the UAE as a result of measures taken to combat coronavirus. A UAE-wide notice to mariners has issued. Vessels already in port have been allowed to disembark passengers at the end of cruises. The Cruise Line International Association (CLIA) has adopted an enhanced member health policy which all CLIA ocean member cruise lines are required to follow to address the coronavirus. If you are planning to travel on an international cruise that is due to call at any port in the UAE, contact your travel company for the latest information.
The Ministry of Health and Prevention (MoHaP) have called on older members of the public to remain at home and stay away from crowded places.
All schools in the UAE have been closed for four weeks from Sunday 8 March 2020. Many events have been cancelled. If you are planning to attend a specific event in the UAE, please check with the organisers.
Tourist and cultural sites have been closed temporarily.
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
Other health risks
Cases of Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus in patients from the United Arab Emirates have been reported to the World Health Organization. There have also been cases of legionnaires’ disease among British nationals who have recently travelled from Dubai. For the latest information and advice, see the website of the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Medical treatment
Healthcare facilities in the UAE are generally comparable with those in the UK, but visitors may be prevented from using them without travel insurance or without the means to settle any medical fees. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 999 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment. 
