Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

The UAE suspended all inbound and outbound flights at 11:59pm local time on Tuesday 24 March. There are currently extremely limited commercial options available to return to the UK from the UAE. If you live in the UK and are currently visiting the UAE, you’re strongly advised to return now by commercial means. Don’t run the risk of getting stranded. You should continue to contact your airline or tour operator regarding any possible return flights. This will ensure any demand is logged in the airlines own assumptions about the number of people waiting to return to the UK. The British Embassy is in constant contact with the local authorities, airlines and other diplomatic missions to explore all possible avenues.
What to do
If you cannot leave the UAE at this time, you should:
follow the advice of local authorities, including local measures to help minimise your risk of exposure to coronavirus
find accommodation that’s suitable for your needs
keep in regular contact with family and friends at home, so they know you are safe and well
See more information and advice about staying where you are if you cannot return to the UK.
Help and support
To get the latest information, sign up for travel advice email alerts. If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British Embassy on 04 309 4444 or 02 610 1100.
The Embassy cannot provide further information or advice about commercial departure options over the phone.
Future travel options
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Visas
On 13 April, the Federal Authority for Identity and Citizenship announced that visas and entry permits that expired after 1 March 2020 are now valid until the end of December 2020. This includes visit visas, residency visas and ID cards. For residents it applies to those both inside and outside the UAE. For visitors it applies only to those who are still in the UAE.
Find out more on the ICA website.
If you have any questions on the validity or expiry of your visa, contact UAE Immigration directly. If you’re living outside the UAE, contact the nearest UAE Embassy for advice.
Arrival in the UK
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Further information
The British Embassy is issuing regular updates on Twitter and Facebook with advice and the latest available information on options for British nationals wishing to leave the UAE.
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
