

Terrorism  
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad. 
Terrorism in the UAE 
Terrorists are likely to try to carry out attacks in the United Arab Emirates (UAE).  
Attacks could be indiscriminate, including in places visited by foreign nationals. 
Terrorists continue to issue statements threatening to carry out attacks in the Gulf region. These include references to attacks on western interests, including against UK citizens. Targets may include:  
residential compounds 
military sites 
oil 
transport 
aviation interests  
crowded places 
restaurants  
hotels 
beaches 
shopping centres 
places of worship
Maintain a high level of security awareness, particularly in public places and at public events.
Regional risks
Ongoing hostilities in the region and between Israel and Iran could escalate quickly and pose security risks for the wider region. 
You should:
monitor local and international media for the latest information
be vigilant and follow the instructions of local authorities
Crime 
Protecting your belongings 
Take sensible precautions to protect yourself and your belongings.
Sexual assault 
Take care when walking or travelling alone or at night, particularly if you are a woman. Use a reputable taxi company and do not accept lifts from strangers.  
Sexual assault and rape are relatively rare but do happen. A man who is convicted of raping a woman will be given life imprisonment, and in some cases prosecutors may request the death penalty. However, UAE law places a high burden of proof on the victim to demonstrate that the sexual relations were not consensual, especially when the victim had consumed alcohol or where the alleged attacker was known to the victim. If the sexual relations are determined to have been consensual, either party may still face prosecution for the offence of sex outside marriage.
Drink and food spiking 
Do not accept drinks from strangers or leave your drink unattended. Criminals can spike drinks and assault or rob you.
Property scams 
If you want to buy property in the UAE, get appropriate professional advice as you would in the UK. FCDO has a list of lawyers for Abu Dhabi and Dubai.
Laws and cultural differences 
The UAE is a Muslim country. Respect local traditions, customs, laws and religions. Make sure your actions do not cause offence, especially during the holy month of Ramadan or if you visit religious areas. There may be serious penalties for doing something that might not be illegal in the UK but is in the UAE.  
Your passport
UAE employers may ask foreign employees to deposit their passports with the company as part of their terms and conditions of employment. This is illegal under UAE labour law. 
It is normal practice for hotels to take a photocopy of your passport or Emirates ID.
Hotel regulations
You cannot stay in a hotel if you’re under 18 years old and not accompanied by an adult.   
Pedestrian crossings 
Only cross roads using designated pedestrian crossings. It is illegal to cross in other places and you may face a fine or even imprisonment. Take care when crossing, as vehicles often do not stop at zebra crossings marked on the roads.
Ramadan  
Ramadan is a holy month for Muslims. The dates vary by year and country. During this time, it may cause offence if you: 
eat, drink, smoke or chew gum in public in the daytime, including in your car 
play loud music or dance 
swear in public 
Find out how Ramadan is observed in the UAE or get more advice when you arrive from your tour guide, hotel or business contacts. 
You should also: 
check opening hours of shops and restaurants 
be aware that if hotels and restaurants are providing food or drink in fasting hours, they may separate you from Islamic guests, for example with screens 
follow local dress codes – clothing that does not meet local dress codes may cause more offence at this time 
be aware that driving may be erratic, particularly when people are trying to get home at dusk 
be patient and show tolerance - fasting can cause tiredness, particularly during the late afternoon and early evening 
Dress code 
Dress modestly in public areas like shopping malls: 
women should cover shoulders and knees, and underwear should not be visible
avoid transparent clothing or any attire that features imagery or phrases that could potentially offend others
swimming attire should only be worn on beaches or at swimming pools
cross-dressing is illegal 
Some venues, events or buildings may have specific dress codes.
Swearing and rude gestures 
It is illegal to swear and make rude gestures, including online, as they are considered obscene acts. You could be jailed or deported. Take particular care when dealing with the police and other officials.
Posting online
It is illegal to post material, including videos and photographs, online that is critical of the UAE government, companies or individuals, or which relates to incidents in the UAE. This includes material which appears to abuse, ridicule or criticise the country or its authorities. Material that is culturally insensitive may also be considered illegal. 
Showing affection in public
Showing affection in public is frowned upon. You can be arrested for kissing in public.
Sexual relationships outside marriage 
Consensual sexual relationships between a man and woman outside marriage are generally legal if both are aged 18 or over. This includes extra-marital sexual relationships. However, if either person’s spouse or parent/guardian files a criminal complaint, both parties of an extra-marital consensual relationship can get a prison sentence of 6 months or longer.  
If a person aged 18 or over has a sexual relationship with a person aged 17 or under, they will be prosecuted for having a sexual relationship with a minor. If both people are aged 17 or under, they will both be prosecuted but punishment is likely to be limited to a caution, parental supervision, judicial supervision, professional training or psychiatric treatment.  
If you are unmarried and give birth to a child in the UAE, you will only be able to get a UAE birth certificate if:   
both you and your partner get married
you and your partner provide a joint declaration, certified by a notary public, to acknowledge the child - further information is available from the Ministry of Health and Prevention
If you become pregnant outside of marriage, your medical insurance may not cover you. Consult your medical insurance provider before getting pregnant, or giving birth in the UAE.
Financial crime 
Financial crimes, including fraud and the non-payment of bills (including hotel bills) can often result in a prison sentence, a fine, or both. You could also have your bank accounts and other assets frozen.  
If you are arrested for a financial crime and are not resident in the UAE, it is likely you will not be allowed bail. If you are convicted, you may have to stay in prison until the debt is paid or waived, and you’ve served your full sentence.
Alcohol laws and bans 
Drinking or possessing alcohol is illegal in the Emirate of Sharjah, 30km north of Dubai.
It is illegal to drink or be under the influence of alcohol in a public place anywhere in the UAE. British nationals have been arrested and charged under this law, often in cases where they have come to the attention of the police for a related offence, such as disorderly or offensive behaviour. 
The legal age for purchasing and drinking alcohol is 21 in Abu Dhabi, Dubai and in all Northern Emirates except Sharjah, where drinking and having alcohol in your possession is illegal.  
If you are resident in Dubai and want to buy alcohol to drink at home, you must get a liquor licence. Liquor licences are no longer required for residents in the other Emirates excluding Sharjah..  
Liquor licences are not required in Dubai to purchase and consume alcohol in licenced venues like hotel bars, restaurants, and pubs. However, a liquor licence is required for consuming alcohol in private places like homes or private parties. While this requirement might not be strictly enforced in private settings, it remains a legal requirement.   
Outside licensed venues, you can only buy alcohol with a liquor licence from the 2 official liquor distributors in Dubai, MMI and African & Eastern. Tourists can get a temporary liquor licence which is valid for one month, from either supplier. This licence is only for use in Dubai.    
Liquor licences are not required for non-residents in the other Emirates where alcohol is available. You can buy and drink alcohol in licensed venues, such as hotels, restaurants and clubs.
Illegal drugs penalties  
There is zero tolerance for drugs-related offences.   
The penalties for trafficking, smuggling, using and possessing illegal drugs (including residual amounts) are severe. Sentences for drug trafficking can include the death penalty. Possession of even the smallest amount of illegal drugs, including cannabis, can lead to a minimum 3-month prison term or a fine of between 20,000 UAE dirham and 100,000 UAE dirham. The Emirati authorities count the presence of drugs in the blood stream as possession.   
Some ‘herbal highs’ and products containing cannabidiol  (CBD) are illegal in the UAE.   
Possessing, concealing or making transactions with money from drugs-related offences is illegal. You could get a prison sentence and a fine.  
UAE airports have excellent technology and security for detecting illegal items, including cannabis. This is also used to scan the baggage of transiting passengers. You can be arrested for carrying drugs, even residual amounts.
Some skincare products and e-cigarette refills may contain ingredients that are illegal in the UAE such as CBD oil. If you are found in possession of such products, they will be confiscated and you could face criminal charges. A list of narcotic, psychotropic and controlled drugs where this rule applies, allowed quantities and documents to be presented can be found on the UAE Ministry of Health website.
Fundraising and charitable acts 
Fundraising and acts of charity are heavily regulated in the UAE. This includes online and social media activity. Check whether any of the activities you are planning to do in the UAE, or while travelling through the UAE, is illegal. Get legal advice if necessary.
Taking photos in secure areas 
It is illegal to take photos of some government buildings and military installations. Hobbies like bird watching and plane spotting may be misunderstood, particularly near military sites, government buildings and airports.  
Do not photograph people without their permission. Men have been arrested for photographing women on beaches. 
Technical equipment 
You may need a licence to use equipment like satellite phones, listening or recording devices, radio transmitters, powerful cameras or binoculars. Get advice from the UAE Embassy in the UK.
Media activity 
You must apply for the appropriate permissions to carry out media activity, including the production, transmission or distribution of printed, digital, audio, video or visual information. Failure to do so could result in imprisonment and a substantial fine.  
Information about media activity and how to obtain the necessary permits can be accessed by registering on the National Media Council website.
LGBT+ travellers 
Same-sex sexual activity is illegal in the UAE, and same-sex marriages are not recognised.  
The UAE is in many respects a tolerant society and private life is respected. However, there have been reports of individuals being punished for same-sex sexual activity, particularly where there is any public element, or where the behaviour has  caused offence. This applies both to foreign national residents and tourists.
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Outdoor activities and adventure tourism  
Swimming safety 
Rip currents can occur at any beach and can sweep even the strongest swimmer out to sea. Check for warning signs, especially red flags which mean that swimming is dangerous. Only swim from approved beaches where there are lifeguards and flags indicating it is safe to swim .  
See water safety on holiday from the Royal Life Saving Society.
Transport risks  
Taxis 
Use only licensed taxis or other recognised forms of public transport, which includes apps like ‘Careem’, ‘Uber’ and Abu Dhabi Taxi. In Dubai authorised taxis are painted cream with different coloured roofs – taxis with pink roofs have female drivers. In Abu Dhabi taxis are painted silver/grey.
There are special taxis for women and children, which can be hailed from the roadside or can be booked in advance.
Road travel  
If you are planning to drive in the UAE, see information on driving abroad and check the UAE traffic portal.   
You can use a UK photocard driving licence to drive in the UAE. If you still have a paper driving licence, you may need to update it to a photocard licence or get the correct version of the international driving permit (IDP) as well. 
If you’re applying for residence in the UAE, you can use your UK licence until your residence permit is issued, after which you’ll need to get a UAE driving licence from the traffic department.
Driving standards
Driving standards are not always as disciplined as in the UK and there is a high rate of traffic accidents. Speeding is common, despite clearly signposted legal limits and widespread use of speed cameras.
Rules of the road
It is illegal to drink and drive, no matter how small the amount, and your insurance is likely to be invalidated in the event of an accident.
Police in the UAE have the power to impound your car for traffic violations that may be considered minor in the UK. They will charge a fee of 50,000 UAE dirham plus a traffic violation fine to release your car.    
Offensive gestures and bad language directed at other drivers can lead to fines, a jail sentence, and possibly deportation.   
Flashing headlights can mean a driver is coming through, rather than giving way to you.  
All drivers involved in an incident must stop as soon as it is safe to do so. If you are involved in a crash, follow the rules of the emirate in which you are travelling:
in Abu Dhabi, if no one has been hurt and vehicle damage is minor, move your vehicle to the side of the road to avoid blocking traffic, otherwise do not move your vehicle
in Dubai, only move your vehicle if it is causing an obstruction to other motorists
in the other emirates, only move your car if the accident is minor and both parties agree who is responsible
in all cases, call the police – it is illegal to leave the scene of an accident before the police have arrived
Driving in the desert 
Excursions to the desert can be dangerous unless you’re in a properly equipped 4-wheel-drive vehicle. Always travel with other cars, take a supply of water and a mobile telephone. Leave a copy of your travel plans with relatives, friends or where you are staying.   
If you join a tour for driving in the desert or quad-biking, make sure you go with a reputable company with adequate health and safety procedures.   
Always check that such activities are covered by your insurance.
Sea travel 
Be careful when travelling by tourist boat. The safety of these vessels may not be up to UK standards. Make sure life jackets are available for all passengers.  
Many areas of the Gulf are highly sensitive, including near maritime boundaries and the islands of Abu Musa and the Tunbs in the southern Gulf. The authorities have detained and inspected vessels entering these areas. Mariners should make careful enquiries with relevant local authorities before entering these waters.  
You should consider how regional tensions may affect your route. Vessels operating in the Gulf of Oman, Northern Arabian Sea, Gulf of Aden and Bab El Mandeb regions may be at increased risk of maritime attack.
Extreme weather and natural disasters
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards.
Flooding
Heavy rain in the UAE can cause flooding. Check weather forecasts from the National Centre of Meteorology, and follow advice from the local authorities. Sources for up-to-date information include local radio and online media outlets The National and The Khaleej Times.
