This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in the UAE as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in the UAE to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in the UAE
For information on entering UAE, see Entry Requirements
You should comply with any additional measures put in place by the local authorities. The UAE authorities have stated that any violation of instructions and procedures put in place to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19) will be treated as a crime punishable by law.
Information about the UAE’s approach can be found on the website of the Ministry of Health and Prevention through its COVID-19 Information Centre
The authorities have introduced strict measures to limit the spread of COVID-19.
You should keep up to date with local public health measures and comply with instructions. If you fail to do so you risk being fined or imprisoned. The authorities have advised that the public should remain at home unless they need to buy food, basic essentials or medicine, and maintain social distancing when doing so.
The UAE National Disinfection Programme is running daily from late evening until early morning. The exact timings are subject to change and you should check official sources such as Dubai Media Office and Emirates News Agency for current timings. During these times movement outside should be for medical emergencies only. In Dubai and Abu Dhabi, a permit is required during these hours and you should apply through the Dubai permits website or the Abu Dhabi Police website.
While there has been some relaxation of daytime movement restrictions, you should monitor UAE government advice closely as this may be subject to change at short notice. From 2 June 2020 there are also some restrictions in place on movement between the separate Emirates. You can keep up to date with information via official sources such as Dubai Media Office and Emirates News Agency.
Since 2 June movement to and from the Emirate of Abu Dhabi has been restricted although movement within the Emirate of Abu Dhabi is allowed.
Tourist and cultural sites have been closed temporarily although some have reopened with additional safety measures in place including social distancing and the wearing of face masks. Pharmacies and supermarkets remain open. Since 24 April, Dubai shopping malls, markets and commercial outlets will be open for restricted hours, social distancing and other measures will apply.
All schools in the UAE are now closed for the remainder of this academic year. Many events have been cancelled. If you are planning to attend a specific event in the UAE, check with the organisers.
Visas
The Federal Authority for Identity and Citizenship announced that visas and entry permits that expired after 1 March 2020 are now valid until the end of December 2020. This includes visit visas, residency visas and ID cards. For residents it applies to those both inside and outside the UAE. For visitors it applies only to those who are still in the UAE.
Find out more on the ICA website.
If you have any questions on the validity or expiry of your visa, contact UAE Immigration directly. If you’re living outside the UAE, contact the nearest UAE Embassy for advice.
Health
You should keep up to date with local public health measures and comply with instructions. If you fail to do so you risk being fined or imprisoned.
Pharmacies and supermarkets remain open.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in the UAE
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in the UAE, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate:
British Embassy Dubai
British Embassy Abu Dhabi All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
