Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Liechtenstein on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Liechtenstein.
Return to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements. You should contact local authorities for information on testing facilities.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Public spaces and services
All contact with other individuals should be at a distance of at least 1.5 metres. Wearing a facemask is compulsory when travelling on public transport or entering indoor spaces accessible to the public. Failure to do so is punishable by a fine. Children under the age of 12 are exempt from this requirement, as are individuals who are unable to wear a mask for medical reasons.
Liechtenstein has relaxed coronavirus restrictions. Restaurants will are open without restrictions, including table sizes. Private events are allowed without any size limits. Public events with audiences are allowed for up to 1000 people.
You can find more information on the emergency measures in place on the Government website (in German).
Healthcare in Liechtenstein
If you believe you have symptoms, you should not go directly to the hospital or a healthcare facility. Instead you should call the coronavirus emergency number on +423 235 45 32 (24 hours).
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Liechtenstein.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Liechtenstein
Wherever possible British nationals should aim to be vaccinated in the country where they live. We will update this page when the Government of Liechtenstein announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Liechtenstein national vaccination programme started in December 2020 and is using the Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna vaccines. British nationals resident in Liechtenstein are eligible for vaccination. The Liechtenstein authorities have issued their vaccination strategy on how vaccinations are organised. You can find information on how to register for vaccination on the website of the Liechtenstein health authorities (German language only).
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in Liechtenstein, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
If you receive your COVID-19 vaccination in Liechtenstein, you can get an EU Digital COVID Certificate from the national authorities. The Certificate proves that you have been vaccinated against COVID-19, received a negative test result, or recovered from COVID-19. It will help facilitate your travel within the EU and, in some countries, you can use it to demonstrate your COVID-19 status to businesses and other organisations. For further information visit the European Commission’s EU Digital COVID Certificate page.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
