The information on this page covers the most common types of travel and reflects the UK government’s understanding of the rules currently in place. Unless otherwise stated, this information is for travellers using a full ‘British Citizen’ passport.
The authorities in the country or territory you’re travelling to are responsible for setting and enforcing the rules for entry. If you’re unclear about any aspect of the entry requirements, or you need further reassurance, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
You should also consider checking with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
If you are travelling to Liechtenstein for work, read the guidance on visas and permits as the rules have changed since 1 January 2021.
Entry rules in response to coronavirus (COVID-19)
Entry to Liechtenstein
The borders with Switzerland and Austria have reopened but inspections may be in operation.
You may wish to check our Travel Advice for Switzerland and Austria.
Immigration and customs
Switzerland handles immigration and customs matters for Liechtenstein. Entry requirements are the same as for Switzerland. There is an open border between Switzerland and Liechtenstein. The Swiss Embassy in London handles consular issues on behalf of Liechtenstein in the UK.
The UK has been designated as a ‘country with a worrying variant. You may enter Liechtenstein from the UK for any travel purpose if you are fully vaccinated and can show adequate proof (detailed below).
Travellers who are not fully vaccinated may only enter Liechtenstein from the UK if they are:
Liechtenstein or Liechtenstein nationals;
EU or EFTA nationals;
holders of the following documents:
a residence permit, i.e. a Swiss residence permit (L / B / C / Ci permits);
a cross-border permit (G permit);
an FDFA legitimation card;
a D visa issued by Switzerland;
Holders of a ‘laissez passer’ issued by the Swiss Embassy in situations of special necessity.
Travellers who are not fully vaccinated and do not meet one of the exemptions outlined above may not currently enter Liechtenstein from the UK.
For those individuals eligible to enter Liechtenstein who are not fully vaccinated, travel from the UK is generally subject to 10-day quarantine with test and release available after 7 days. Those who are fully vaccinated are exempt from quarantine requirements.
Unvaccinated children and adolescents arriving from the UK under the age of 18 are allowed to enter Liechtenstein and are accompanied by fully vaccinated adults but will need to quarantine on arrival. All travellers arriving by air must complete a passenger locator form, regardless of vaccination status.
Travellers can see what rules apply when entering Liechtenstein or Switzerland using the online Travelcheck service.
Testing requirements
All travellers flying to Liechtenstein via Switzerland must possess either proof of vaccination, proof of recovery in the last 6 months or a negative COVID-19 test prior to departure. Negative PCR tests (not older than 72 hours) or a rapid antigen test (not older than 48 hours) are accepted. Children under the age of 16 are exempt from testing.
Travellers arriving by land who have been in a place listed within the last 10 days (which includes the UK), must possess either proof of vaccination, proof of recovery in the last 6 months or a negative COVID-19 test. Negative PCR tests (not older than 72 hours) or a rapid antigen test (not older than 48 hours) are accepted. Children under the age of 16 are exempt from testing.
Quarantine
The UK has been designated as a ‘country with a worrying concern’. Travellers arriving from the UK or who have been in the UK in the previous 10 days and who are not fully vaccinated or unable to prove they have recovered from COVID-19 in the last 6 months, are required to quarantine for up to 10 days.
If you are subject to quarantine, on arrival in Liechtenstein you should go immediately to your accommodation. On the way there, you should keep a minimum distance of 1.5 metres from other people. If you are unable to maintain this distance, it is recommended that you wear a facemask. You should avoid public transport if possible.
You should report your arrival to the Liechtenstein government within two days.
While quarantining you must remain in the place where you are staying without going out and avoid contact with other people.
There is the possibility of shortening travel quarantine from day 7 onwards providing you have a negative test (PCR or rapid antigen) and the Liechtenstein government gives permission.
The Liechtenstein government are responsible for monitoring quarantine and they conduct spot checks. Anyone who fails to comply with the quarantine requirement is committing an offence and can be fined up to CHF 10,000.
Further guidance on quarantine requirements is available from the Swiss Federal Office of Public Health.
Demonstrating your COVID-19 vaccination status
Fully vaccinated individuals may enter Liechtenstein for any purpose, subject to showing adequate proof of vaccination.
Evidence of your COVID-19 vaccination status can be provided digitally (through the NHS app or NHS website) or as a printout (this can be requested from the NHS by calling 119). However a screenshot or a photo is not sufficient. Further information is available from the State Secretariat for Migration. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
You will be regarded as vaccinated if you have been vaccinated with a vaccine that either:
is authorised in Switzerland and has been administered in full in accordance with Federal Office of Public Health recommendations; or
has been authorised by the European Medicines Agency for the European Union and has been administered in full in accordance with the requirements or recommendations of the country in which the vaccination was administered; or
has been authorised under the WHO Emergency Use Listing and has been administered in full in accordance with the requirements or recommendations of the country in which the vaccination was administered.
This includes the AstraZeneca, Pfizer, Moderna and Janssen vaccines that are available in the UK.
Proof of vaccination must include:
First and last names
date of birth
dates of the vaccination
vaccine used
Evidence of your COVID-19 vaccination status can be provided digitally (through the NHS app or NHS website) or as a printout (this can be requested from the NHS by calling 119). However a screenshot or a photo is not sufficient. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
Your vaccination is valid for 12 months directly after the date of your last vaccination. For the Janssen vaccination the validity starts 22 days after the date of vaccination.
While Liechtenstein also accepts proof of recovery from COVID-19 for entry, the NHS does not provide proof of recovery records.
Further information is available on the Swiss Federal Office of Public Health and State Secretariat for Migration websites.
Regular entry requirements
Visas
The rules for travelling or working in European countries changed on 1 January 2021:
you can travel to countries in the Schengen area for up to 90 days in any 180-day period without a visa. This applies if you travel as a tourist, to visit family or friends, to attend business meetings, cultural or sports events, or for short-term studies or training
if you are travelling to Liechtenstein and other Schengen countries without a visa, make sure your whole visit is within the 90-day limit. Visits to Schengen countries within the previous 180 days before you travel count towards your 90 days
to stay longer, to work or study, for business travel or for other reasons, you will need to meet the Liechtenstein government’s entry requirements. Check with the Swiss Embassy in London what type of visa and/or work permit you may need
if you stay in Liechtenstein with a residence permit or long-stay visa, this does not count towards your 90-day visa-free limit
Any time you spent in Liechtenstein or other Schengen countries before 1 January 2021 does not count towards your 90-day visa-free limit.
At Liechtenstein border control, you may need to use separate lanes from EU, EEA and Swiss citizens when queueing. Your passport may be stamped on entry and exit. You may also need to:
show a return or onward ticket
show you have enough money for your stay
There are separate requirements for those who are resident in Liechtenstein. If you are resident in Liechtenstein, you should carry proof of residence as well as your valid passport when you travel. For further information on these requirements, see our Living in Liechtenstein guide.
Passport validity
Check your passport is valid for travel before you book your trip, and renew your passport if you do not have enough time left on it.
Make sure your passport is:
valid for at least 3 months after the day you plan to leave Liechtenstein, or any other Schengen country
less than 10 years old
The 3 months you need when leaving a country must be within 10 years of the passport issue date.
If you renewed your current passport before the previous one expired, extra months may have been added to its expiry date. Any extra months on your passport over 10 years may not count towards the minimum 3 months needed.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK ETDs are accepted for entry and exit from Liechtenstein.
Working in Liechtenstein
If you intend to work in Liechtenstein, you should get detailed information on employment regulations from the Migration and Passport Office (in German).
