At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
If you’re visiting Liechtenstein you should get a free European Health Insurance Card (EHIC) before leaving the UK. The EHIC isn’t a substitute for medical and travel insurance, but it entitles you to state provided medical treatment that may become necessary during your trip. Any treatment provided is on the same terms as Liechtenstein nationals. If you don’t have your EHIC with you or you’ve lost it, you can call the Department of Health Overseas Healthcare Team (+44 191 218 1999) to get a Provisional Replacement Certificate. The EHIC won’t cover medical repatriation, ongoing medical treatment or non-urgent treatment, so you should make sure you have adequate travel insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment and repatriation.
An agreement between the EU and Liechtenstein came into force on 1 June 2002. If you are a national of the UK or any other EU country, a Liechtenstein national, a stateless person or refugee and you live in the UK, you can use the EHIC to get reduced cost immediately necessary healthcare when visiting Liechtenstein. Your dependent family members and survivors are also covered, regardless of their nationality.
If you claim treatment under the EHIC scheme in Liechtenstein you should only be charged the proportion of your healthcare costs for which you remain responsible. Liechtenstein has one hospital, the Liechtensteinisches Landesspital, in Vaduz. The Amt fur Gesundheit (National Office of Health) generally needs to approve your admission, except for emergency treatment. For more serious conditions, patients may need to be referred to a nearby hospital in Switzerland.
There is an increased risk of tick bites from April to October. For more information read insect and tick bite avoidance
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 144 or 112 and ask for an ambulance. If you are referred to a medical facility for treatment you should contact your insurance/medical assistance company immediately.
