Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

There remain some commercial options to return to the UK from Liechtenstein. If you live in the UK and are currently visiting Liechtenstein, you’re strongly advised to return now by commercial means. Don’t run the risk of getting stranded.
UK special charter flights will only operate for priority countries where commercial flights are not possible. You should not assume that these flights will become available in countries where commercial routes are operating. Please do not contact the contracted travel management company if no flight is advertised here.
Flights
Flights to London are available from Zurich and Geneva in Switzerland. SWISS is currently the only airline operating commercial flights to the UK. If you are transiting Switzerland from elsewhere in the world, you are strongly advised to have your onward travel booked in advance.
An option for those wishing to return to Northern Ireland is to travel via Dublin. Flights are being operated by SWISS from Zurich via Frankfurt / Germany to Dublin. You should check the Travel Advice for Ireland and Germany. You should check the carrier’s website for the latest flight schedule and availability.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Travel via France
If you plan to return to the UK by road or rail via France, you should check the Travel advice for France.
It is possible to transit through France if:
• you have evidence of your onward journey and • do not show symptoms of illness that could indicate a coronavirus infection
An example of ‘acceptable evidence’ would include a confirmed ferry or Eurotunnel booking to the UK.
In order to enter France, you will need to complete an “international attestation”. This is available in English and in French.
In order to travel through France, you should also complete a personal travel waiver certificate.
As with other forms of transport, many cross-Channel operators are operating substantially reduced services for passenger traffic. Passengers should check with their operator before departing, and may still be subject to severe disruption.
Travelling to the airport
There are no border restrictions on entering Switzerland from Liechtenstein. Liechtenstein is not connected to the Swiss Federal Railways (SBB / CFF / FFS) network. If you wish to travel by train to Zurich or Geneva airport, you will need to make your own arrangements to travel to Sargans train station, St Gallen, Switzerland for onward travel to an airport.
Swiss Federal Railways (SBB / CFF/ FFS) continue to operate to airports with a reduced service. There may be cancellations, missed connections and delays on the rail network.
You should check the Swiss Federal Railways website before starting your journey.
See more information and advice about staying where you are if you cannot return to the UK.
Arrival in the UK
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Further information
Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British Embassy Berne on Twitter and Facebook.
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
