Crime
The emergency number for the police is 117. Crime levels are low, but petty crime can occur. You should take sensible precautions to avoid mugging, bag snatching and pick-pocketing. Do not leave your valuables unattended. Do not become involved with drugs of any kind.
Road travel
Drivers must be 18 years of age and hold a full valid UK, or other EU/EEA, driving licence, insurance and vehicle documents.
If you’re living in Liechtenstein, check the Living in Liechtenstein Guide for information on requirements for residents.
If you are planning to drive in Liechtenstein, see information on Driving Abroad.
Driving a British car abroad
You may need a GB sticker or a UK sticker to drive your car outside the UK. From 28 September UK stickers will replace GB stickers. Check the GOV.UK Displaying number plates website for more information on what to do if you are driving outside the UK before, on or after 28 September 2021.
Driving regulations
If you plan to travel to Liechtenstein via the motorways in Switzerland or Austria, you must purchase and display a motorway vignette or face large on-the-spot fines in these countries.
Traffic regulations are strenuously enforced. Any serious breach of the regulations can result in heavy fines and/or imprisonment.
All road users should follow instructions given by local police and officials on the main alpine transit routes, at bottlenecks and areas of heavy traffic congestion.
A warning triangle is compulsory and must be kept within easy reach (not in the boot).
Radar detectors are prohibited in Liechtenstein whether in use or not.
The limit for alcohol in the bloodstream is 0.08% and police may request any driver to undergo a breath test or drugs test.
See the RAC and AA guides on driving in Liechtenstein.
Road safety
Alpine winters often make driving more difficult. You should equip your car with winter tyres and snow-chains, and check road conditions prior to departure.  
Outdoor sports activities
Hiking, mountaineering and skiing are increasingly popular activities. Unfortunately each year there are incidents with visitors getting into difficulty and needing the help of the emergency services.
If you are taking part in extreme sports, check that the company is well established in the industry and that you have arranged for your travel insurance to cover the specific activity. For sports activities like skiing and mountaineering, and for sports classed as particularly dangerous (for example off-piste skiing), your insurance should include mountain rescue services, helicopter costs and repatriation to your country of residence or possible transfer to neighbouring countries for treatment.
Check weather forecasts and conditions and make sure you’re properly equipped for the worst-case scenario. A map, compass, GPS and telecommunication equipment should always be used. Don’t undertake any activity alone, and consider hiring a guide for expert advice. Always leave copies of your itinerary with someone.
The following alpine hazards exist throughout the year:
• avalanches and snow drifts
• landslides and flooding
• glacial crevasses and hollows
• rockfall
• thunder storms and lightning
• altitude sickness
• sun exposure
• sudden weather changes
To check the latest avalanche risk, visit the website of the European Avalanche Warning Services. Observe all warnings about avalanches and where appropriate consider carrying search equipment. Conditions on roads in mountainous areas can quickly become difficult in winter. You should carry water, food, warm clothing and medicines in your vehicle.
Off-piste skiing is highly dangerous. You should follow all safety instructions carefully given the danger of avalanches in some areas and particularly during times of heavy snow. Avalanche beepers (receivers) are the most common rescue devices and when properly used provide the fastest way of locating an avalanche victim.
For more information and advice on enjoying outdoor activities safely and responsibly, visit the official tourism website of the Principality of Liechtenstein.
Read more about how to stay safe on the slopes.
