This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Liechtenstein as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Liechtenstein to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Liechtenstein
For information on entering Liechtenstein, see Entry Requirements
A distance of 2 metres must be maintained between people who do not live in the same household when gathering in public. Public and private events are banned. Those aged over 65 or with pre-existing medical conditions are encouraged to stay at home.
All shops, markets, restaurants, religious and cultural institutions are able to reopen and medical practitioners (including dentists) have resumed all non-urgent treatment. You can find more information on the emergency measures in place on the Government website (in German).
If you believe you have symptoms, you should not go directly to the hospital or a healthcare facility. Instead you should call the coronavirus emergency number on +423 235 45 32 (24 hours).
Health
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Liechtenstein.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Liechtenstein, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
