The FCDO advises against all but essential travel to:
the whole of Liechtenstein based on the current assessment of COVID-19 risks.
If you are returning to the UK from Liechtenstein, you will need to self-isolate on your return (unless you are exempt). Check the latest guidance for England, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales.
Travel is subject to entry restrictions
Due to COVID-19 restrictions, travellers arriving from the UK are only permitted entry to Liechtenstein if they hold a Liechtenstein or Swiss residence permit; or a ‘laissez-passer’ issued by the Swiss Embassy in London for certain circumstances.
UK nationals and other non-Liechtenstein/Swiss nationals arriving from a ‘high risk country’ are not permitted entry to Liechtenstein. However, exemptions do apply.
UK nationals who hold a residence or cross-border permit for Liechtenstein or Switzerland, or who are travelling from other Schengen countries are permitted entry.
Travellers from the UK must quarantine for 10 days from arrival
See Entry requirements for more information before you plan to travel.
Preparing for your return journey to the UK
If you’re returning to the UK from overseas, you will need to:
provide your journey and contact details before you travel
check if you need to self-isolate on your return
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
If you’re planning travel to Liechtenstein, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCDO’s guidance on foreign travel insurance.
There are rules about taking food and drink into the EU. See Taking food and drink into the EU for further information.
British nationals make around 2,200 visits to Liechtenstein every year. Most visits are trouble-free.
Although there is no recent history of terrorism in Liechtenstein, attacks can’t be ruled out. See Terrorism.
If you’re living in or moving to Liechtenstein, read the Living in Liechtenstein guide in addition to this travel advice.
Consular support is not available from the British government in Liechtenstein. However the British Embassy in Berne, Switzerland can provide consular support to British nationals.
There is one ski resort in Liechtenstein at Malbun. There is a moderate danger of avalanches at some times of the year. Follow local advice on weather and avalanche conditions. See Outdoor sports activities
If you need to contact the emergency services, call 112 (general emergency calls), 118 (fire), 117 (police) or 144 (ambulance).
