Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Brunei on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Coronavirus lockdown
Brunei went into lockdown on 7 August 2021. Although measures have since relaxed, there are still restrictions in place. There is a daily curfew between 10pm and 4am until and including Friday, 14 January 2022. You will need to apply for a special authorisation letter from the Prime Minister’s Office to leave home during this time.
As part of Brunei’s National COVID-19 Recovery Framework, Brunei moved to its “early endemic phase” on 15 December for one month until Friday, 14 January 2022. Business premises including restaurants, fitness facilities, markets and cinemas can open at 75% capacity or 300 people, whichever is the lower number.
All individuals, regardless of vaccination status will be allowed to enter public premises and government offices and attend private and public events. Unvaccinated adults must take an Antigen Rapid Test (ART), the results of which will be valid for 2 days. Unvaccinated under 18s will be exempt from taking an ART test if they are accompanied by a fully vaccinated adult. Brunei will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 recovery and vaccination record. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
You should expect to have your temperature taken, electronically, and must check-in to business premises and government offices using the BruHealth app.
Masks are mandatory for everyone over 2 years old when in public places, but may be removed when you are drinking or eating, or if you are exercising. There are financial penalties for not adhering to mask guidelines.
British people travelling should check the Brunei Ministry of Health and the Prime Ministers Office websites for up to date guidance, policy on travel to/from Brunei and details on how to download and use the BruHealth app.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Brunei
We will update this page when the Government of Brunei announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Brunei national vaccination programme started in April 2021 and is using the AstraZeneca, Moderna, Sinopharm and Pfizer-BioNTech vaccines. British nationals resident in Brunei are eligible for vaccination, if they choose to join the programme. From 17 December individuals aged 18 and above can receive a booster shot on a walk-in basis 3 months after their second COVID19 vaccination. Further information and how to access vaccines can be found on the Brunei Ministry of Health website.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in Brunei, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Brunei.
Returning to the UK
Travelling from and returning to the UK
Check what you must do to travel abroad and return to England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
If you plan to pass through another country to return to the UK, check the travel advice for the country you’re transiting. If you will pass through a red list country, book your hotel quarantine package before travelling to the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Healthcare in Brunei
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Brunei.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
