This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Brunei set and enforce entry rules. For further information contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to. You should also consider checking with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Entry and exit rules in response to coronavirus (COVID-19)
Entry to Brunei
Entry to Brunei is restricted. Land and sea borders are currently closed.
On 22 April 2022, Brunei announced a further easing of restrictions for inbound and outbound travellers.
From 6 May 2022, Brunei will no longer categorise countries and will allow fully vaccinated passengers to make non-essential travel by air to and from any countries without requiring an Entry Travel Pass. (see Demonstrating your COVID-19 status below for definition of fully vaccinated).
Fully-vaccinated travellers entering Brunei must take an ART upon arrival (Day 1), and again on Day 2 and Day 3 after arriving in Brunei. Self-isolation is no longer required if the ART results are negative. You must pay $40 BND for the three ART kits given to you on arrival.
Travellers who are not fully-vaccinated are only permitted to enter Brunei if they can verify that they are medically exempted from receiving a COVID-19 vaccination. Unvaccinated travellers will need to follow the non-Travel Green List Countries travel protocols (see Entry from a non-green list country below).
They are required to perform an ART upon arrival and RT-PCR test on Day 3. They are also required to undergo self-isolation until a negative RT-PCR result is obtained. Travellers will be charged $100 BND for both ART and RT-PCR.
Before 6 May 2022: Entry from a Green list country
Until and including 5 May, non-essential travel is only permitted to and from Travel Green list countries; Australia, Cambodia, China, Japan, South Korea, Malaysia (air travel only), New Zealand, Singapore, United Kingdom, United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia. Upon arriving in Brunei, travellers from a Green List country must take an Antigen Rapid Test (ART) (lateral flow) and a COVID-19 RT PCR test, and self-isolate until they receive a negative result (see Quarantine). They must take an additional (self-administered) ART on Day 2 and Day 3 and upload the results on the BruHealth App (the day of arrival is considered Day 1).
Before 6 May 2022: Entry from a non-Green list country
Only essential travel is allowed from countries not listed on the Green list and travellers must apply for an Entry Travel Pass from the Prime Minister’s Office at least 8 working days before the intended date of travel. See the Brunei Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) website for further information, or contact the Brunei High Commission.
Travellers from countries not listed on the Green list must take an ART upon arrival and then self-isolate (see Quarantine). They must undergo a COVID-19 RT-PCR test on Day 5 at a designated swab centre (day of arrival is considered Day 1). COVID-19 recovered travellers are only required to undergo ART upon arrival (at a fee of B$20.00).
All travellers into Brunei must;
be fully vaccinated with 2 doses unless they can show proof of a medical exemption from having the COVID-19 vaccination (under 18s travelling with a group of vaccinated adults will follow the vaccinated protocols)
submit an Arrival Declaration form on the PMO travel portal no more than 24 hours prior to departure.
download and register on the BruHealth App prior to departure (see Data Collection).
make payment for the relevant post arrival COVID tests depending on your vaccination or recovery status and obtain a payment receipt which states the name and passport number of the traveller
show to their airline at check-in a negative COVID-19 RT PCR test obtained within 48 hours of departure, or an ART obtained within 24 hours of departure (those with recovery certificates do not need to do a pre-departure test). You should not use the NHS testing service to get a test in order to facilitate your travel to another country. You should arrange to take a private test
Foreign nationals entering Brunei for a short visit (less than 90 days) are required to obtain Travel Insurance with COVID-19 medical coverage (a minimum of $50,000 BND). Foreign nationals entering for the purpose of employment, studying or as eligible dependent are exempted from this requirement
From 1 October 2020, all travellers entering Brunei via a land border will need to pay $3 BND per person on exit and $3 BND on return or entry. You should refer to the Prime Minister’s Office website for the latest information.
Travellers who have recently had COVID
From 1 April 2022, travellers who have recovered from COVID-19 in the past 90 days will be exempt from providing a pre-travel negative COVID-19 test and will only have to take an ART on arrival. They must have a certificate as proof of recovery from COVID-19 in the past 90 days.
Demonstrating your COVID-19 status
To enter Brunei, a traveller is considered fully vaccinated if they have received two doses of a vaccine that has received WHO emergency use listing (or one dose for Johnson & Johnson). From 1 November 2022 a traveller will only be considered fully vaccinated if they have had a booster shot or received their second dose not more than three (3) months prior.
Brunei will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 recovery and vaccination record. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
Quarantine requirements
From 6 May onwards, fully vaccinated visitors to Brunei from will not need to isolate on arrival. Only unvaccinated travellers will need to undergo self-isolation at a suitable accommodation (home residence or hotel accommodation) until their receive a negative result for the post arrival RT-PCR test.
From 1 April 2022, travellers who have recovered from COVID-19 in the past 90 days will be exempted from undergoing mandatory self-isolation. They must provide proof of recovery from COVID-19 in the past 90 days.
Data collection
On arrival in Brunei, it is mandatory to use the BruHealth app to record test results, record your health status on a daily basis and to enter public buildings and events where you need to scan a QR code. Failure to do so may result in financial penalties and legal repercussions, additionally you not being able to access public buildings.
Exiting Brunei
From 1 April 2022, travellers exiting Brunei (for any destination) no longer require a travel permit. Citizens and residents who wish to travel are required to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19, with the second dose administered not more than 3 months prior to departure or have received a booster dose. From 15 May this will apply to 12 - 17 year olds too. Unvaccinated passengers will only be permitted to travel if they have a certificate of medical exemption from vaccination or of having recovered from COVID in the past 90 days.
Brunei citizens and permanent residents are required to obtain a Travel Medical Insurance with COVID-19 coverage (a minimum coverage of $50,000 BND) valid for the entire duration of their travel.
From 1 October 2020, all travellers exiting Brunei via a land border will need to pay $3 BND per person on exit and $3 BND on return or entry. A permit for land border travel is still banned and will require a special permit. You should refer to the Prime Minister’s Office website for the latest information.
Regular entry requirements
Visas
British Citizen passport holders may enter Brunei for up to 90 days without a visa. If you have another type of British nationality, check with Brunei immigration authorities about visa requirements.
Make sure the entry stamp in your passport indicates the validity of your stay. There are strict penalties for overstaying.
If you’re staying longer than 90 days and/or visiting for non-tourist purposes, you will need to get a visa from the nearest Brunei diplomatic mission before you travel.
Passport validity  
Your passport should be valid for a minimum period of 6 months from the date of entry into Brunei. 
Dual nationality
Brunei does not recognise dual nationality. You can be refused entry if you’re found to be holding two passports of different nationality. If you’re a dual national, it’s advisable to enter Brunei on the passport on which you exited your last country of departure. While in Brunei your nationality will be deemed to be that shown on the passport which you used to enter the country. This may affect the consular assistance that you receive in Brunei.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency travel documents (ETDs) are accepted for entry, airside transit and exit from Brunei. They should have at least 6 months validity. You’ll have to obtain an exit and entry visa from Brunei Immigration before you travel. Please be aware that same day ETDs are not available.
