At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Coronavirus
There is an ongoing outbreak of coronavirus. The virus originated in Wuhan City, Hubei Province but cases have been confirmed in other parts of China and elsewhere in the region including in Brunei. We urge travellers to check the Brunei Ministry of Health for up to date guidance and policy on travel to and from Brunei.
Brunei has strengthened measures to contain the spread of the virus, including a reported travel ban (leaving Brunei) to all citizens, permanent residents and residents in Brunei, including other nationalities. We are currently clarifying the implications for British nationals with the Bruneian government. There are health and temperature screening measures already in place at borders. You should comply with any additional screening measures put in place by the local authorities.
Entry to Brunei (including for transit) will not be permitted to anyone who has, in the previous 14 days, travelled to Hubei, Zhejiang and Jiangsu provinces of China, Iran or Italy.
If you are travelling from other parts of mainland China, or from the Republic of Korea you will be required to self-isolate for 14 days upon arrival.
If you are travelling from Hong Kong, Japan, Singapore, Macao, Malaysia, United Kingdom, United States of America, Philippines, Indonesia, Taiwan, Thailand and Vietnam you will be required to self-monitor for 14 days and to seek medical attention if you develop symptoms.
Travellers whom participated in the Borneo Ultra Trail Marathon Event on Saturday, 14 March are required to report immediately to the Port Health Authority in Brunei on arrival, before entering a period of self-isolation for 14 days.
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
Medical treatment
Standards of healthcare in Brunei are generally acceptable, though basic hospital supplies can run low from time to time. There are two significant medical facilities, the Government General Hospital (RIPAS) in Bandar Seri Begawan and the private Jerudong Park Medical Centre (JPMC). Should complications arise, medical evacuation to Singapore may be necessary. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation.
Emergency dental treatment can be provided either at Jerudong Park Medical Centre (JPMC) or from local private dentists. Most branded pharmaceuticals are readily available though some items that are available without a prescription in the UK, like decongestants or anti histamines may require a Doctor’s prescription in Brunei.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 991 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
