Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

Flights
There are currently no commercial options available to return to the UK from Brunei.
We know this is concerning for British people trying to leave Brunei. The UK government is working closely with airlines, the Brunei authorities and other governments to make sure that you are aware of options for you to return to the UK when they become available.
Details of Royal Brunei’s schedule can be found on the Royal Brunei Airlines website.
What to do
If you cannot leave Brunei at this time, you should:
Follow the advice of local authorities, including local measures to help minimise your risk of exposure to coronavirus by visiting the Brunei Ministry of Health website.
Find accommodation that is suitable for your needs.
Keep in regular contact with family and friends at home, so they know you are safe and well
Prepare to apply for permission to depart Brunei. See ‘Further Information’
See more information and advice about staying where you are if you cannot return to the UK.
Future travel options
The UK government is working closely with airlines, the Brunei authorities and other governments to make sure that you are aware of options for you to return to the UK when they become available.
We are aware that Royal Brunei Airlines have announced a new April / May 2020 flight schedule.
Before booking seats on any of these flights, we strongly advise you check the entry and transit restrictions in place for countries on your proposed flight route.
You should also check onward flight availability as the number of flights operating globally is reducing and continuing to change at short notice.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British High Commission on Twitter and Facebook.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British High Commission on +673 2222231, option 4.
The High Commission cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone. This page will be updated when departure options become available. To get the latest information, sign up for travel advice email alerts.
Brunei has introduced an exit travel ban, including for permanent residents, and expatriate workers (green identity card holders), and their dependents. Exceptions will be considered by the Prime Minister’s Office on a case by case basis, through email applications to travelapplication@jpm.gov.bn giving 14 days’ notice of the intention to travel, and setting out reasons why they need to leave the country. Full details are available on the Prime Minister’s Office website.
Your journey home
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Further information
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
