

Terrorism  
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times. 
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad. 
Terrorism in Brunei 
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Brunei, attacks cannot be ruled out. 
Attacks could be indiscriminate including in places visited by foreign nationals. Stay aware of your surroundings, keep up to date with local media reports and follow the advice of local authorities. 
Crime 
Protecting your belongings  
Crime levels are low, but there are occasional incidents of petty crime against tourists as well as house burglaries. You should:  
take care of your passport 
avoid carrying valuables with you 
not leave possessions in unattended vehicles, even if out of sight  
Laws and cultural differences  
Islam is the official religion in Brunei. Respect local traditions, customs, laws and religions. Make sure that your actions do not cause offence, especially during the holy month of Ramadan. There may be serious penalties for doing something that might not be illegal in the UK but is in Brunei.
Places of business and offices, including shops and restaurants, shut between midday and 2pm every Friday for prayers.
Friday is a non-working day for government offices and local schools. They open on Saturdays instead. 
Ramadan 
Ramadan is a holy month for Muslims. The dates vary by year and country. In 2025, Ramadan is expected to start around the end of February and finish around the end of March.
During this time, it is against the law to be seen eating or drinking in public during fasting hours. You must also not smoke in public. 
You should dress modestly. For example, do not wear shorts in government and public buildings such as health centres. 
Get more advice when you arrive from your tour guide, hotel or business contacts. 
Criticism of the Bruneian Royal Family 
His Majesty The Sultan and other members of the Bruneian Royal Family are highly revered and public criticism of them causes great offence. 
Relationships outside marriage 
Adultery and closeness in private between an unmarried man and woman is illegal if one person is a Muslim. 
Pornographic material 
Possession of pornographic material is illegal. 
Firearms, ammunition and explosives 
Brunei has very strict laws against the possession of firearms, blank or live ammunition and explosives, including fireworks and firecrackers. Do not carry these items or replicas into Brunei. 
LGBT+ travellers 
Brunei criminalises same-sex sexual activity. Sentences include a maximum penalty of death by stoning, whipping, imprisonment and fines. However there is currently a moratorium on the death penalty and there is limited evidence of same-sex activity laws being implemented in recent years. The gender expression of trans people is also criminalised and this law is occasionally enforced with fines.
Read advice for LGBT+ travellers. 
Illegal drugs penalties
There are severe penalties for drug offences in Brunei including, in some cases, the death penalty. Other crimes may be punished by caning and lengthy prison sentences. 
Alcohol laws and bans 
The sale of alcohol and tobacco in Brunei is illegal. Non-Muslims aged 17 and over may import a limited amount of alcohol. This must be declared to the customs authorities on arrival and drunk in private. 
Smoking and e-cigarette bans 
Smoking is illegal in certain public places, including shopping and eating areas, bus stops and stations, car parks and near buildings. 
Outdoor activities and adventure tourism  
Hiking and mountaineering 
Police advise against hiking alone in the forest, including at well-known recreation areas. It’s easy to get lost when visiting the rainforest. You should: 
use recognised and well-known guides 
stay on paths and trails, rather than pushing through the undergrowth  
always carry food and water with you  
consider carrying a whistle to attract attention and a torch  
wear closed-toe shoes 
Wildlife 
Saltwater crocodiles 
Saltwater crocodiles have attacked and killed people fishing on riverbanks around Bandar. Crocodiles have also been seen on beaches and in the ponds of the Panaga golf course. You should: 
pay attention to signs warning of crocodiles 
stay away from the water’s edge  
seek local advice 
Venomous snakes 
There are a number of venomous snakes in Brunei. If you see a snake while outdoors: 
keep your distance   
wait for the snake to move away 
If you find a snake indoors or outside in a confined space, like a garden, call the fire service (‘bomba’) on 995.  
The RIPAS public hospital in Bandar Seri Begawan carries antivenom. Get medical advice if a snake bites you.
Transport risks  
Road travel  
If you are planning to drive in Brunei, see information on driving abroad. 
You can drive in Brunei with a valid UK driving licence for up to 90 days. You’ll then need to apply for a Bruneian licence from the Land Transport Department. 
If your vehicle is not registered in Brunei, you can only buy motor fuel at 14 designated filling stations, to a maximum of 250 litres. Petrol stations will only sell premium “V-Power” fuel to foreign cars. You can usually only pay in cash. 
If you’re driving to Malaysia with a Bruneian registered car, the same is true – foreign registered vehicles are only permitted to buy premium RON97 fuel (not the subsidised RON95 fuel) and this is not available in all petrol stations. Make sure to fill up before leaving a city.
Driving standards are different from the UK. Vehicles do not always stop at red lights or pedestrian crossings. It is common for drivers not to use seatbelts or child car seats and to speed. Road surfaces are uneven and accidents are common. Animals such as monitor lizards, snakes and monkeys could be on the roads. 
If you’re involved in a road accident as a driver, do not leave the scene or move the vehicle until the police arrive. 
Sea travel 
Small boats carry passengers across to the water village in Bandar and along the rivers on cruises. You should: 
check there are adequate life jackets for all passengers, including children  
keep hands inside the boat, as there are river crocodiles   
If you’re taking a longer trip, for example, a wildlife cruise, get local recommendations and plan your trip in advance.
