Coronavirus guidance is being updated.
Read what you can and cannot do

This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Brunei as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Brunei to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Brunei
As part of Brunei’s approach to contain the spread of the virus, mosques and other places of worship have been closed, restaurants and cafes are only open for take-away and public gatherings have been discouraged.
British people travelling should check the Brunei Ministry of Health for up to date guidance and policy on travel to and from Brunei.
Immigration Control Posts at Brunei’s land borders are operating shortened hours from 6am to 8pm. There are health and temperature screening measures at borders. You should comply with any additional screening measures put in place by the local authorities.
Brunei has also introduced an exit travel ban, including for permanent residents, and expatriate workers (green identity card holders), and their dependents. Exceptions will be considered by the Prime Minister’s Office on a case-by-case basis, through email applications to travelapplication@jpm.gov.bn giving 14 days’ notice of the intention to travel, and setting out reasons why they need to leave the country. Full details are available on the Prime Minister’s Office website.
See also Brunei’s Entry requirements.
Health
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Brunei.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
