Travel to Brunei is subject to entry restrictions
Entry to Brunei is severely restricted. Anyone seeking to enter or exit Brunei must apply for a permit from the Prime Minister’s Office
As of 3 September 2020, Brunei announced that travellers to Brunei will need to provide a negative COVID-19 RT PCR test on arrival, obtained within 72 hours of travel
If the government of Brunei permits you entry, you will need to go into quarantine on arrival at a government designated facility (usually a local hotel). Travellers are responsible for booking directly with hoteliers and must secure your accommodation before arrival, and have proof of their stay to show the airline at check-in
All foreigners must pay $350 BND for a COVID-19 test in advance of their arrival in Brunei and show proof of this this at the airline check-in, and will need to cover the cost of their stay in a quarantine facility. Currently quarantine is between 2 and 14 days. Travellers will be informed of the duration of quarantine on arrival.
See Entry requirements for more information before you plan to travel.
Preparing for your return journey to the UK
If you’re returning to the UK from overseas, you will need to:
provide your journey and contact details before you travel
check if you need to self-isolate on your return
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
If you’re planning travel to Brunei, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCDO’s guidance on foreign travel insurance.
Pre-COVID-19, around 13,000 British nationals visit Brunei every year (source: Brunei Immigration). Most visits are trouble free.
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Brunei, attacks can not be ruled out. See Terrorism
Crime levels are low, but there are occasional incidents of petty crime against tourists. See Crime
To contact the emergency services call Royal Brunei Police Force 993, Ambulance 991, Fire 995 or Search and Rescue 998.
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission. In Brunei the consular contact number is +673 2222231 (select the consular option).
