Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Suriname on the TravelHealthPro website.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
All international borders remain closed. Ferry services between Guyana and Suriname and French Guiana and Suriname are operating on a limited bases, with strict controls on carriage.
There are reduced flights to the Netherlands and the USA. Your carrier will be able to provide details. Be mindful that breaches of quarantine may result in serious penalties. Countries that you visit or transit may levy fines or imprisonment against persons who do not comply with COVID protocols.
If you are planning to transit the USA, you should check USA travel advice for the latest entry requirements. You should also check travel advice for your destination country and any countries on your route.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Suriname
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements.
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) also provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Individuals who test positive for the Coronavirus in Suriname before returning to the UK will be expected to self-isolate for 10 days, either in a hotel or private accommodation. Individuals may be contacted by the Ministry of Health if they have tested positive for the virus. The Government of Suriname will not provide assistance for people who may need to leave their hotels. Minors (under 18 years) are unlikely to be treated differently to adults.
Moving around in Suriname
The government of Suriname have the following measures in place in order to reduce the spread of the coronavirus:
restaurants are only open for take-away
funerals are allowed under the condition of 10 persons being present in rotation
at religious gatherings a maximum of 10 persons is allowed
gatherings are allowed to groups of maximum 10 people
lockdowns may be put in place at short notice. You are advised to monitor local reports to ensure compliance
Be mindful that breaches of quarantine may result in serious penalties.
Healthcare in Suriname
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Suriname.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Suriname
We will update this page when the Government of Suriname announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Suriname national vaccination programme started in February 2021 and is using the AstraZeneca and Sinopharm vaccines. The Government of Suriname has stated that British nationals resident in Suriname are eligible for vaccination if they choose to join the programme. Further information about the programme can be found at the Ministry of Health website.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in Suriname, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
