This page has information on travelling to Suriname.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport from the UK, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Suriname set and enforce entry rules. If you’re unsure how Suriname’s entry requirements apply to you, contact its UK embassy, high commission or consulate.
All travellers
All persons entering Suriname will be required to provide evidence of full vaccination.
If you’re fully vaccinated
If you’re fully vaccinated, you can enter Suriname without needing to test or quarantine. A person is considered fully vaccinated 2 weeks after their last COVID-19 vaccination shot. Fully vaccinated also includes persons who, after testing positive for COVID-19 from 14 days to 6 months ago, can provide a certificate of recovery as well as a SARS-CoV-2 PCR test.
Proof of vaccination status
You must present proof that you have been fully vaccinated to enter Suriname
The following documents are required:
Proof of complete vaccination with a WHO EUL COVID-19 vaccine
Negative SARS-CoV-2 PCR test result issued by an accredited medical test entity not older than 72 hours before departure or a negative SAR-CoV-2 antigen test result within 24 hours before departure
Valid travel documents
Certificate of recovery from COVID-19 (in line of vaccination proof)
Passengers travelling to Suriname are advised to observe a seven-day self or home quarantine after arrival. However, quarantine is not compulsory
If you’re not fully vaccinated
If you’re not fully vaccinated, you’ll need to show proof of a negative PCR test (taken no more than 72 hours before entry) when entering Suriname. See information on getting a test before entry.
If you’ve had COVID-19 in the past year
If you’re not fully vaccinated but have tested positive for COVID-19 in the last year you can enter Suriname. You’ll need to show evidence of a positive PCR test (taken more than 14 days and less than a year ago). You will not need to take an additional COVID-19 test. You will also need to show a proof of recovery letter.
Children and young people
Children under the age of 18 are exempt from the vaccination requirement.
If you’re transiting through Suriname
Suriname is not a transit point for travel.
Travelling Abroad from Suriname
Outbound travel from Suriname is possible provided that you travel to your country of birth or residence or a country of which you have the nationality.
Exemptions
Exemptions will be made for the for persons not or not fully vaccinated to enter Suriname. The following categories of traveller can apply for an exemption by emailing the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, International Business and International Cooperation – conza@gov.sr:
Surinamese Residents
Diplomats
Persons in connection with the death of a relative or seriously ill relative
The following conditions for exempted entrants will need to be observed:
A compulsory 7-day home quarantine
Presentation of a negative SAR-CoV-2 PCR test no more than 48 hours before travel
Valid travel documents
For category 1, proof of permanent residency in Suriname
For category 3, medical insurance/COVID-19 insurance valid for at least 30 days, and a yellow fever certificate if transiting through a country with high levels of yellow fever
The compulsory quarantine will be waived for categories 2 and 3.
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
Passport validity
If you are visiting Suriname, your passport should be valid for 6 months from the date you arrive.
Check with your travel provider to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Visas
From 1 July 2022, you do not need a visa for tourism and family visits for stays up to 90 days. You will be required to pay an entry fee of $25 or €25 in advance of your visit, online payment can be made prior to your arrival via the E-VISA website.
Business and non-tourism visitors still require an e-visa to enter Suriname.
Visas for Suriname and the entry fee payment are only available via the official website.
You can get information about visas and the entry fee from the Suriname Consulate in Amsterdam. Telephone: (00) (31) 206 426 137; Fax: (00) (31) 206 465 311; email: info@consulaatsuriname.nl
You can also contact the Suriname Honorary Consul in the UK:
Dr Amwedhkar Jethu, 127 Pier House, 31 Cheyne Walk, London SW3 5HN, United Kingdom
Mobile: (0044) (0)7768 196 326; Email: ajethu@honoraryconsul.info
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents are valid for entry into and exit from Suriname, but they must carry the appropriate Surinamese visa. Suriname requires travel documents to have at least a six months’ validity.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
