If you have a health condition, or you are pregnant, you may need specialist healthcare abroad. Check whether your destination country can provide the healthcare you may need and ensure you have appropriate travel insurance for unexpected medical evacuation or local treatment.
At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Health risks
UK health authorities have classified Suriname as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For information and advice about the risks associated with Zika virus, visit the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
Along with Hepatitis A, Tetanus and Typhoid, listed as particular risks in Suriname are:
Dengue
Schistosomiasis
Yellow Fever
Malaria
Because of the risk, you should take steps to avoid being bitten by mosquitoes.
Medical facilities are severely limited in Suriname. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation. There is presently only one 24/7 medical facility available in Suriname, this is the Academisch Ziekenhuis in Paramaribo.
Not all medical facilities accept payment from insurance companies. Payment therefore may need to be made in advance and claimed back from the insurer.
The UNAIDS country profile for Suriname estimated that in 2016 around 4,900 people were living with HIV. One of the key populations most affected by HIV in Suriname is sex workers, with an HIV prevalence of 5.8%. Since 2010, new HIV infections have decreased by 6% and AIDS-related deaths have increased by 17%.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 115 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
