Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

There are currently extremely limited commercial options available to return to the UK from Guyana.
Suriname has closed its borders owing to concerns about the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19). There are no longer flights from Suriname. All scheduled international flights to and from the country are suspended and land border and ferry crossings closed.
What to do
To build a more accurate picture of the number of non-resident British nationals still in Suriname, and the issues you are currently facing, we would ask all those with an interest in returning to the UK to email returnfrom.suriname@fco.gov.uk providing the following information:
your full name(s)
your passport details
expiry date of passport
your date(s) of birth
place of birth (as shown on your passport)
your exact current location in Suriname
details of the best way to contact you
Any exceptional international flights will depart from Paramaribo. If you are catching one of these flights please leave plenty of time to get to the airport and make sure you have the following documents (printed where possible):
proof of a booked flight (ideally a boarding pass)
your passport
If you cannot leave Suriname at this time, you should:
follow the advice of local authorities, including local measures to help minimise your risk of exposure to coronavirus
find accommodation that’s suitable for your needs
keep in regular contact with family and friends at home, so they know you are safe and well See more information and advice about staying where you are if you cannot return to the UK.
Future travel plans
We know this is concerning for British people trying to leave Suriname.The UK government is working closely with airlines, the Surinamese authorities and other governments to make sure options are available for you to return to the UK as soon as possible.
This travel advice will be updated when departure options become available.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK.
For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Where possible, the British High Commission in Guyana, which covers Suriname, will share relevant information about departure options on Facebook.
Your journey home
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Further information
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
