

Crime
Burglary, armed robbery and violent crime occur in Paramaribo and surrounding areas. Pick pocketing and robbery are increasingly common in the major business and shopping districts in the capital. You should avoid wearing expensive jewellery or displaying large amounts of money in public. Keep valuables such as your passport, tickets, driving licence and credit cards secure and keep photocopies of these documents in a separate place. If you have a smartphone, you may consider taking photographs of important documents and storing them remotely.
Avoid remote and secluded areas, quiet streets and quiet parks. Avoid the Palm Garden (Palmentium) area in Paramaribo at night. Apart from the entertainment centre around the Torarica Hotels, you should avoid walking at night anywhere in the city.
Travel in the interior of the country is generally trouble-free, although there have been reports of tourists being robbed. Use a well-established tour company if you intend to travel to these parts of Suriname.
Political situation
Be careful when travelling around the country and avoid large crowds, especially political demonstrations. Demonstrations have the potential to become violent and lead to roadblocks and travel disruption. Monitor media and follow the advice of local authorities.
Local travel
Small aircraft operate to a number of interior and regional destinations. If using these services you should be aware of the potential risks, especially from bad weather. 
Although the UN’s International Tribunal on the Law of the Sea in 2007 ruled on the maritime border dispute between Suriname and Guyana, Suriname still claims an area of land (the New River Triangle) in the south-east of Guyana. Suriname also has a border dispute with French Guiana. Keep this in mind and take care in these border areas. Due to COVID-19 restrictions, all border crossing points in Suriname are closed until further notice.
Air travel
The EU Air Safety List was updated on 9 December 2019.
You can find a list of recent incidents and accidents on the website of the Aviation Safety network.
The FCDO cannot offer advice on the safety of individual airlines. However, the International Air Transport Association publishes a list of registered airlines that have been audited and found to meet a number of operational safety standards and recommended practices. This list is not exhaustive and the absence of an airline from this list does not necessarily mean that it’s unsafe.
Blue Wing Airlines have been refused permission to operate services to the EU because the airline does not meet international safety standards. A full list of airlines banned from operating within the EU is available on the European Commission website. Refusal of permission to operate is often based on inspections of aircraft at EU airports. The fact that an airline is not included in the list doesn’t automatically mean that it meets the applicable safety standards.
Safety concerns have been raised about INSEL Air. The US and Netherlands authorities have prohibited their staff from using the airline while safety checks are being carried out. UK government officials have been told to do the same as a precaution.
Sea travel
There have been reports of attacks against fishing boats in and around the waters of Suriname. Be vigilant and take suitable precautions.
Road travel
Driving in Suriname can be dangerous because of poor road sense of road-users, frequent hazards, inadequate lighting and poor road conditions in some areas. Drive defensively and limit driving at night as much as possible. When driving at night take extra care to avoid cyclists, pedestrians and animals.
Only use taxis from reputable companies or those on official hotel taxi ranks. Don’t hail taxis from the roadside.
You can drive in Suriname with an International Driving Permit (IDP). From 1 February 2019, you can only get IDPs over the counter from 2,500 UK Post Offices. You will not be able to buy an IDP outside the UK, so get one before you travel.
If you’re planning to hire a car, check with your car hire company for information on their requirements before you travel.
