Coronavirus guidance is being updated.
Read the Prime Minister’s statement for the latest information.

This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Suriname as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Suriname to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Suriname
For information on entering Suriname, see Entry Requirements.
The government have announced that a nationwide lockdown will be in place from 18.00hrs on 4 June to 06.00hrs on 12 June 2020. This has been introduced as a counter measure to the spread of COVID-19. All international borders are closed (including the ferry to Guyana). Everyone is urged to stay at home.
The government of Suriname has blocked road and air travel into and out of the eastern part of the country, including traffic on the East-West Connecting Road at the point of Stolkersijver.
Supermarkets, small vegetable stands, bakeries, butchers, fuel stations will be allowed to remain open between 08.00hrs – 17.00hrs, as will restaurants and pharmacies offering a collection service. Nightclubs and casinos will remain closed.
Licences for tour buses have been revoked. Private vehicles may only take two occupants. Taxis may carry two passengers. It is forbidden to organise activities of more than 5 people.
Health
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Suriname.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Suriname, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
