The FCDO advises against all but essential travel to:
the whole of Suriname based on the current assessment of COVID-19 risks.
From 4am on 15 January, visitors who have been in or transited through Suriname in the previous 10 days cannot enter the UK. British and Irish nationals, and third country nationals with residence rights in the UK arriving in the UK from Suriname will need to self-isolate along with their households on their return. Check the latest guidance for England, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales.
From 1 January onwards people with residence rights include: holders of Indefinite Leave to Remain; holders of existing leave to enter or remain (i.e those with biometric Residence permits) or an entry clearance/visa that grants such leave e.g. students, workers, etc (excluding visit visas); holders of EU Settlement Scheme (“EUSS”) leave; those who have rights of entry under the Withdrawal Agreements (including returning residents with a right of residence under the EEA Regulations and EEA frontier workers); family members of EEA nationals with rights under the Withdrawal Agreement.
Coronavirus: stay up to date
Find out how to return to the UK from Suriname
See how to stay safely as a visitor if you cannot return
See coronavirus travel advice for guidance on international travel
Sign up for email alerts for Suriname travel advice
Preparing for your return journey to the UK
If you’re returning to the UK from overseas, you will need to:
provide your journey and contact details before you travel
check if you need to self-isolate on your return
Suriname has closed its borders owing to concerns about the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19). However, a limited number of exceptional international flights may become available. See return to the UK from Suriname
If you are still in Suriname, send your contact details to the Consular Section at the British High Commission, Georgetown, Guyana, by email to returnfrom.suriname@fcdo.gov.uk. Please note that owing to the need for social distancing to reduce the spread of the virus, we are responding to queries via telephone, email and social media. See Return to the UK.
If you are visiting Suriname you will need an e-visa or e-tourist card. See Visas
Most visits are trouble-free, but burglary, armed robbery and violent crime occur in Paramaribo and in outlying areas. See Crime
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Suriname, attacks can’t be ruled out. See Terrorism
UK health authorities have classified Suriname as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For information and advice about the risks associated with Zika virus, visit the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
Consular support may be limited in Suriname as there is no British Embassy office.  However, the British High Commission in Georgetown, Guyana, can provide consular support.
Take out comprehensive travel and medical insurance before you travel. 
