Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Yemen on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
There are limited commercial flights entering or leaving Yemen. The majority of land sea and air ports are closed until further notice. Check with your travel company for the latest information.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Yemen.
Travel in Yemen
Authorities across Yemen have introduced a range of measures. These include curfews, movement restrictions, closures of businesses and limitations on public and private gatherings. Implementation may vary and restrictions can change at short notice.
Some areas have designated quarantine camps. These can vary in both quality and access to medical provision.
The British government can’t provide consular support or any form of assisted departure to British nationals in Yemen. If you need urgent consular assistance, call the FCO in London on +44 (0)20 7008 1500.
The FCO can’t offer advice on the safety of travelling to any potential departure point. You should therefore consider carefully whether you want to pursue any options that become available. You should use your own judgement to move towards a departure point only if and when you judge it is safe to do so.
The British government’s ability to facilitate onward travel from countries in the region is limited and you’ll be expected to cover the cost of visas, accommodation, insurance and onward travel yourself. Any travel options you pursue are taken at your own risk.
Healthcare in Yemen
Medical facilities, particularly away from the main towns, are poor. There are four testing facilities in Mukalla, Sana’a, Aden and Taiz.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
Further information
If you have any questions about travel restrictions to Yemen, you should contact the nearest Yemeni Embassy.
