!
Warning
FCDO advises against all travel to Yemen.

Terrorism  
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad. 
Terrorism in Yemen 
Terrorists are very likely to try to carry out attacks in Yemen.  
The threat is heightened where Al-Qaida in the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP) and Islamic State-Yemen have tribal connections and in the governorates of Abyan, Marib, Hadramawt and Shabwah. 
Western and Houthi interests in Yemen remain a feature in AQAP propaganda, and AQAP views westerners and Houthi as legitimate targets for attacks. Terrorist attacks could be indiscriminate, including in places visited by foreign nationals, such as: 
hotels and supermarkets 
transport routes 
oil and gas infrastructure 
government buildings 
gatherings 
airports and transport hubs  
Attacks targeting or affecting British nationals of Yemeni origin cannot be ruled out. Attacks against Yemeni security forces and Houthis are on the rise throughout the country. 
Methods of attack have included:  
attacks by militants 
firearm assassinations 
kidnappings  
improvised explosive devices and car bombs left in buildings and roadways 
suicide attacks 
Daesh-Yemen has conducted multiple terrorist attacks across the country, including Aden, Sana’a, Ibb, Hodeida and al-Bayda. So far this has been focussed on Houthi, security forces and the Yemeni government but western interests are highly likely to be regarded as targets. 
Terrorist kidnap 
There is a very high and constant threat of kidnap across Yemen.  
Al-Qaida in the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP) propaganda has called for continued kidnapping of westerners. However, armed tribes and criminal groups have also carried out kidnaps in the past. There is a high risk that such groups would sell any hostages on to AQAP, who have murdered a number of hostages. 
Kidnaps have occurred at various times of day and in a wide variety of locations, including:  
public places in the capital  
cars while travelling 
victims’ accommodation  
Kidnapping attempts often involve the use of force and have ended in the death of several victims.  
All British nationals are seen as legitimate targets, including tourists, NGOs, humanitarian aid workers, journalists, business travellers, and long-term residents. If you are kidnapped, the reason for your presence is unlikely to protect you or secure your safe release.  
The long-standing policy of the British government is not to make substantive concessions to terrorist hostage takers. The British government considers that paying ransoms builds the capability of terrorist groups and finances their activities. This can, in turn, increase the risk of further hostage-taking. The Terrorism Act (2000) makes payments to terrorists illegal. 
Regional escalation
Ongoing hostilities between Israel and Lebanon could escalate quickly and pose risks for the wider region.
On 1 October, Iran launched around 200 ballistic missiles at Israel. On 26 October, Israel carried out military action against Iran.
Monitor this travel advice and other media as the situation is changing fast. Follow and contact FCDO travel on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram. You can also get email notifications when this travel advice is updated.
Read FCDO advice if you’re affected by a crisis abroad.
Political situation  
The political and security situation in Yemen remains uncertain and volatile.  
Since April 2022 a de-facto ceasefire has remained in place between the Houthis and the Yemeni government. On 23 December 2023, the UN announced that the Houthis and internationally recognised government of Yemen had committed to a ceasefire. However, sporadic incidents continue to occur along frontlines and the security situation remains volatile. Due to ongoing hostilities in the Red Sea, there is a heightened state of alert across Yemen and widescale conflict may resume at short notice. In February, in response to US and UK airstrikes, the Houthi authorities designated the US and UK as ‘hostile states’.  
As a result, we strongly advise against all travel to Houthi controlled areas. The risk of attack to British nationals also extends to areas under Yemeni government control. 
Reports of arbitrary arrests and enforced disappearances raise concerns. The Houthis have arrested opponents, including politicians, journalists, academics and activists. British nationals have also been detained by Houthis in the past, including aid workers working for NGOs.  
Crime 
Regularly reassess your security arrangements and carefully plan your movements if travelling within Yemen. Avoid keeping the same routine by changing routes you use and keeping a low profile at all times. Follow health and security advice given by Yemen authorities and security experts before any travel in the country. Always check routes in advance and do not advertise your plans on social media. Military weapons are readily available and may be used by criminals and terrorists or in security operations. The risk of crime, such as carjacking, robbery or extortion, is widespread throughout the country.  
Tribal disputes over land are common and may involve the use of weapons. The Houthis and other militias run extra-judicial detention centres and arbitrary detention is widespread. Following recent events in the Red Sea there is an especially high risk of British nationals being detained.  
Laws and cultural differences  
Yemen is an Islamic country with Islamic law. Respect local traditions, customs, laws and religions, particularly during the holy month of Ramadan. 
Ramadan  
Ramadan is a holy month for Muslims. The dates vary by year and country and you should check this before you travel. During this time, do not:  
eat, drink, smoke or chew gum in public in the daytime, including in your car  
play loud music or dance  
swear in public  
Get more advice when you arrive from your guide, hotel or business contacts.  
You should also: 
check opening hours of shops and restaurants  
be aware that if hotels and restaurants are providing food or drink in fasting hours, they may separate you from Islamic guests, for example with screens  
follow local dress codes – clothing that does not meet local dress codes may cause more offence at this time  
be aware that fasting can cause tiredness, particularly during the later afternoon and early evening 
be patient and show tolerance 
Dress code  
Men and women must wear loose-fitting clothing that covers down to the elbow and reaches below the knees. You should also:  
avoid tight-fitting clothing   
avoid clothes with profane slogans or images  
not wear clothing with symbols or slogans that could be viewed as political as this could lead to arrest 
Alcohol laws
Do not drink alcohol in public.  
Using cameras in secure areas 
Taking pictures in or around military sites is likely to result in arrest and arbitrary detention. British consular services will not be able to offer support in this situation. 
Do not take pictures of people without their consent. 
LGBT+ travellers 
Consensual same-sex relations are illegal in Yemen, with penalties including fines, corporal punishment, imprisonment and the death penalty.    
In January and February 2024, criminal courts in northern Yemen reportedly sentenced 20 individuals to death for homosexuality.  A further 26 were sentenced to flogging and prison terms of between 6 months and 10 years on charges of ‘spreading immorality’ and ‘immoral acts’. 
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers. 
Antiquities 
You must get permission from the General Authority for Antiquities before exporting or removing antiques from Yemen. It’s illegal to remove or sell Yemeni antiques without permission.  
Transport risks 
Road travel  
If you are planning to drive in Yemen, see information on driving abroad.   
Driving conditions 
Driving standards are poor and mountain roads are dangerous. Avoid all road travel outside the main cities at night. Landmines from the current and previous conflicts are a risk on Yemen’s roads. Make sure to go with an experienced guide if you’re travelling off well-used tracks. 
Access routes in and out of major cities may be closed or blocked. Always check the road is open before starting your journey. 
There is a severe shortage of fuel in Yemen. 
Air travel 
Yemen’s airspace is currently controlled by Saudi-led coalition forces. Prior permission from the coalition must be obtained before flying.  
Sea travel
The conflict extends to Yemeni territorial waters off the Red Sea and the Bab-Al Mandab Strait. Houthi forces present an ongoing risk to all shipping in the Red Sea and the Bab-Al Mandab Strait due to the potential for misidentification and miscalculation by Houthi forces. 
Piracy 
Piracy in the Gulf of Aden continues to be a threat. For more information and advice, see piracy and armed robbery at sea. 
Extreme weather and natural disasters 
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards.  
Tropical cyclones 
Tropical cyclones sometimes affect parts of the country. Monitor local and international weather updates.  
