!
Warning
FCDO advises against all travel to Yemen.

Your travel insurance could be invalidated if you travel against advice from the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO). 
FCDO advises against all travel to Yemen 
FCDO advises against all travel to the whole of the Yemen due to the unpredictable security conditions.
If you’re in Yemen, you should leave immediately.  
See Safety and security for more information. 
Regional risks
Hostilities in the region and between Israel and Iran have the potential to deteriorate further, quickly and without warning. On 22 June the US launched military strikes against Iranian nuclear facilities and on 23 June Iran launched military strikes against a US military base in Qatar.
There is a possibility of travel disruption, including short-notice airspace closures, delayed and cancelled flights, and other unanticipated travel impacts.
As a precautionary measure we encourage you to:
read the FCDO’s advice on if you’re affected by a crisis abroad
monitor local and international media for the latest information
be vigilant and follow the instructions of local authorities
take shelter and stay away from windows if instructed. If you require urgent assistance call 199 or 194
avoid military or security facilities
check with relevant airlines for the latest updates before travelling
UK government support 
Support for British people is severely limited in Yemen. British Embassy services in Sana’a are suspended, and all diplomatic and consular staff have been withdrawn. 
The UK government cannot help British nationals leaving Yemen. There are no evacuation procedures in place. 
FCDO cannot offer advice on the safety of travelling to any potential departure point. The UK government’s ability to help with onward travel is severely limited and you’ll be expected to cover the cost of visas, accommodation, insurance and onward travel yourself. 
If you choose to remain in Yemen, you should minimise movement around the country and within cities and towns, monitor developments in the local security situation and follow other precautions in this travel advice. 
If you’re a British national in Yemen and need help from the UK government, you can call FCDO on 020 7008 5000 (24 hours). 
Travel insurance 
If you choose to travel against FCDO advice, research your destinations and get appropriate travel insurance. Insurance should cover your itinerary, planned activities and expenses in an emergency. 
About FCDO travel advice 
FCDO provides advice about risks of travel to help you make informed decisions. Find out more about FCDO travel advice. 
Get travel advice updates
Sign up to get email notifications when this travel advice is updated.
Follow FCDO:   
travel advice on X
travel advice on Facebook
Travel Aware on Instagram
