Coronavirus travel health
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
There are no commercial flights to and from Diego Garcia. Access is only allowed for those on pre-authorised official duty.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in the British Indian Ocean Territory.
Returning to the UK
Travelling from and returning to the UK
Check what you must do to travel abroad and return to England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
If you plan to pass through another country to return to the UK, check the travel advice for the country you’re transiting. If you will pass through a red list country, book your hotel quarantine package before travelling to the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in the British Indian Ocean Territory
All new arrivals to Diego Garcia are subject to Restriction of Movement (ROM). ROM will see all arrivals isolated in their accommodation for a minimum 10 days.
Social distancing protocols are in place on Diego Garcia. All persons must avoid ‘close contact’ with others and not enter buildings or other venues which are already at their specified capacity. Close contact means face-to-face conversations within one metre, being within one metre for one minute or more, or being within two metres of someone for more than 15 minutes in a day. Where it is not possible to avoid close contact in public areas and work centres, masks should be worn. Some restrictions remain in place on the capacity of certain public venues and gatherings.
If you test positive whilst in the BIOT
Testing is only routinely conducted on individuals in quarantine after arrival in the Territory. If, at any time, you develop a continuous cough, fever, or experience a loss of smell or taste, you must make contact with either the local health centre or with your ROM sponsor, self-isolate, limit your contact with others, and notify your supervisor or chain of command if you have one. You may be required to enter ROM and you may be required to return a negative COVID-19 test prior to exiting ROM.
Healthcare in British Indian Ocean Territory
There are no medical facilities in the territory. Emergency response and search and rescue facilities are limited, and private medical evacuation can take several days to transport a patient to a suitable medical facility.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
