This page has information on travelling to the British India Ocean Territory. Check what you must do to return to the UK.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in the British India Ocean Territory set and enforce entry rules. For further information contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to. You should also consider checking with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Entry rules in response to coronavirus (COVID-19)
Entry to British Indian Ocean Territory
The British Indian Ocean Territory (BIOT) is not a tourist destination; the Outer Islands of BIOT are uninhabited with no infrastructure whatsoever. Access is restricted and a permit is needed in advance of travel. There are no commercial flights. Access to Diego Garcia is only allowed for those on pre-authorised official duty.
Testing / screening on arrival 
There is mandatory COVID-19 testing on entry for permitted entrants into the British Indian Ocean Territory.
Quarantine requirements
All new arrivals into the British Indian Ocean Territory need to conduct a quarantine until a negative test is obtained. Full details of all rules in effect in the Territory to safeguard public health will be provided to new arrivals prior to or on arrival.
Regular entry requirements
Permits
Access to the British Indian Ocean Territory is restricted and a permit is needed in advance of travel. There are no commercial flights and permits for yachts are only issued to allow safe passage through the Indian Ocean (outer islands only). Access to Diego Garcia is only permitted to those with connections either to the military facility or to the Territory’s Administration.
Mooring permits for the British Indian Ocean Territory (outer islands) for yachts transiting through the Indian Ocean must be applied for at least 6 weeks in advance from the:
British Indian Ocean Territory Administration
Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office
King Charles Street
London SW1A 2AH
Email: BIOTadmin@fcdo.gov.uk
There are no medical facilities in the Territory. Search and rescue facilities are extremely limited. You’ll need proof of comprehensive travel insurance (to include medical evacuation for a minimum of $250,000 US per person on board) and yacht insurance (to include wreck recovery, clean up and disposal) before a permit can be issued.
The Territory’s website has useful information for visit permit request forms and further guidance.
Passport validity
Your passport must be valid for a minimum period of 6 months from the date of entry into the British Indian Ocean Territory.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETD) are not accepted for entry or exit from BIOT.
