Coronavirus guidance is being updated.
Read what you can and cannot do

Currently the options to depart Diego Garcia are extremely limited with flights to both Bahrain and Singapore suspended. This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in the British Indian Ocean Territory as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in the British Indian Ocean Territory to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in the British Indian Ocean Territory
All new arrivals to Diego Garcia are subject to Restriction of Movement (ROM). ROM will see all arrivals isolated in their accommodation for 14 days.
Social distancing protocols are in place on Diego Garcia. Everyone should maintain 6ft social distancing and avoid groups of more than 10 persons. Public venues are restricted from hosting large gatherings. Work and social activities have been restricted to limit large groupings of personnel wherever practicable.
Health
BIOT has very limited medical and emergency response facilities, limited further by coronavirus. We will only be able to assist with serious and life-threatening emergencies. You should report these emergencies through normal SOLAS processes as set out in Visiting Vessels Guidance. The British Indian Ocean Territory’s website has useful information and further guidance.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in the British Indian Ocean Territory.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
