Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Tunisia on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
Direct flights between the UK and Tunisia have restarted. Contact your travel agent for details. Some indirect flights are also in operation.
Travellers from all countries into Tunisia must take a PCR test less than 72 hours before travel and carry dated evidence of a negative result.
You are also required to self-isolate for seven days on arrival in Tunisia. You are exempt from this requirement to self-isolate if you can present evidence that you have tested positive for coronavirus at least six weeks before your departure date, or received all doses of your coronavirus vaccination.
See Entry requirements for full details.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Tunisia.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
Tunisia is on the red list for entering England. Check what you must do to enter England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
No testing is available at the airport or sea ports. Passengers travelling from Tunisia, who require a test for the country they are travelling to, should arrange a private test.
You should contact local authorities for information on testing facilities. A test can be organised on the Ministry of Health webpage (available in French only).
There have been some reports of travellers from Tunisia being denied entry to a third country, on suspicion of carrying fake PCR test results. This may affect you if you are transiting in one country before onward travel to the UK.
For verification, travellers are advised to carry the original copy of their negative PCR test result, and ensure this has been signed and stamped by the laboratory, before travelling. A QR code on digital test results, if provided by the laboratory, can also be presented to verify the result. This applies above all for travel from Tunisia to France.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Tunisia
National curfew hours are from 8pm to 5am. During the curfew you are only allowed to leave your residence in an emergency. A weekend lockdown has also been declared in the Tunis governorate from 8pm on Friday to 5am on Monday on the following weekends:
Friday 9 July to Monday 12 July;
Friday 16 July to Monday 19 July.
Governorates with over 200 coronavirus cases per 100,000 habitants are subject to increased confinement measures, including:
Restrictions on movement;
Reduced commercial activity;
A ban on gatherings.
You can find the latest figures on the Tunisian Ministry of Health Facebook page and by checking with the local authorities in your area.
All modes of public transport (taxis, buses, trains and others) are permitted to operate within these rules. You should follow the advice of local authorities.
The Tunisian authorities have announced that wearing a face mask in public places is mandatory. Failure to wear a mask may result in a fine or imprisonment.
Additional curfews and lockdowns can be imposed at short notice in response to events. You should follow the guidance of local authorities when travelling around the country.
Accommodation
Hotels and private rentals are available to book, although hotels are required to operate at a reduced capacity.
Hygiene measures are in place, including luggage disinfection on arrival, temperature checks on entry and hand sanitiser in public spaces. You must wear face masks on the transport to your accommodation. Self-service restaurants are not allowed to operate as normal, food must be served to guests while they are seated.
Public places and services
Rules vary by governorate and are subject to change. Lockdowns and curfews can be imposed at short notice. You should regularly check the guidance of local authorities.
Cafes and restaurants are allowed to operate at reduced capacity. Public places have hygiene measures in place, including obligatory face masks, taking a temperature check and sanitising hands upon entry.
Healthcare in Tunisia
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Tunisia.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
If you think you have COVID-19 symptoms, you should call a doctor or lab. They will ask a series of questions to assess whether it is likely that you have COVID-19. If COVID-19 is suspected, then they may arrange for someone to come to your home or hotel to conduct a test and they will advise you to self-isolate. You can pay for a test, if required for travel purposes, at the Institut Pasteur.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Tunisia
Wherever possible British nationals should aim to be vaccinated in the country where they live. The Tunisian government has announced that foreign nationals resident in Tunisia can register for a COVID-19 vaccine on the government’s EVAX website.
As further information is available about the national vaccination programme, this page will be updated. Sign up to get email notifications.
The Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) is the UK authority responsible for assessing the safety, quality and efficacy of vaccines. It has authorised the Pfizer/BioNTech, Oxford/AstraZeneca and Moderna vaccines for temporary supply and use in the UK. Find out more about MHRA approval for these vaccines.
British nationals living overseas should seek medical advice from their local healthcare provider in the country where they reside. Information about vaccines used in other national programmes, including regulatory status, should be available from the local authorities. This list of Stringent Regulatory Authorities recognised by the World Health Organisation may also be a useful source of additional information. Find out more about COVID-19 vaccines on the World Health Organisation COVID-19 vaccines page.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
(In Arabic) Facebook.com/pg/santetunisie.rns.tn/posts/
(In French) https://www.facebook.com/covid19tunisia/ https://www.facebook.com/ONMNE/ https://covid-19.tn/fr/accueil-2/ http://www.santetunisie.rns.tn/fr/ http://onmne.tn/fr/
