The information on this page covers the most common types of travel and reflects the UK government’s understanding of the rules currently in place. Unless otherwise stated, this information is for travellers using a full ‘British Citizen’ passport.
The Tunisian authorities are responsible for setting and enforcing the rules for entry. If you’re unclear about any aspect of the entry requirements, or you need further reassurance, you should contact the Tunisian Embassy in London.
You should also consider checking with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Entry rules in response to coronavirus (COVID-19)
Entry to Tunisia
You must take a PCR test less than 72 hours before travel and show evidence of the negative test result, with the date of the test clearly labelled, at your point of departure for Tunisia. Children under 12 years old are exempt from this requirement. You should not use the NHS testing service to get a test to facilitate your travel to another country. You should take a private test and ensure the test certificate includes the date of the test.
You must complete this Tunisian government short online questionnaire before travelling.
You must quarantine at a government-approved hotel for 7 days on arrival at your own expense. You must show evidence of your hotel booking at your point of departure for Tunisia. The full list of government-approved hotels is available on the Tunisian Embassy Facebook page
On or after day five of your hotel quarantine, you should pay to take a second COVID-19 PCR test. If this test result is negative, you can leave quarantine but must adhere very strictly to protective measures including social distancing and mask wearing. If the test result is positive, you must remain in self-isolation for a further 10 days.
Exemptions from hotel quarantine
The following groups are exempt from hotel quarantine, but still subject to other strict entry requirements. You must carry evidence to show you are exempt if you fall into one of the following categories.
Travellers who have had two doses of a coronavirus vaccine
Travellers who have received their first dose of a coronavirus vaccine and previously tested positive for coronavirus
Unaccompanied minors
Travellers for medical reasons
People with disabilities
If you fall into one of the above categories then the following entry rules apply:
You will be subject to a rapid COVID-19 test on arrival. If you test positive, you will be taken into obligatory quarantine at a government-approved hotel. The Tunisian government has not specified the duration of this.
Even if you test negative on arrival you must still self-isolate in your residence. You should isolate at home for 7 days and pay to take a second COVID-19 PCR test, and receive a second negative result, in order to leave isolation.
You need to arrive in Tunisia with evidence of a booking for this second COVID-19 PCR test (to be taken at the end of the isolation period). You can organise this online. You are advised to confirm your appointment directly with the clinic. Travellers entering Tunisia from the Libyan land border may be subject to random rapid tests on arrival. If you test positive you may be obliged to quarantine at a government-approved hotel.
Official delegations on professional missions of less than 5 days are exempt from the self-isolation requirement but still need to present a dated negative PCR test on arrival.
The Tunisian government has also announced that travellers arriving in Tunisia as part of a tour or package holiday will not need to self-isolate on arrival, if they adhere to the following measures:
Take a PCR test less than 72 hours before travel and show evidence of the negative test result, with the date of the test clearly labelled, at your point of departure for Tunisia.
Present booking confirmation for a holiday organised by a tour operator.
Remain in a bubble with the tour group for the duration of your trip, including accommodation and all travel.
Complete this Tunisian government short online questionnaire before travelling.
It is currently illegal to travel abroad from the UK for holidays.
Transiting Tunisia
A small number of transit flights are operating through Tunisia. If you are transiting through Tunisia, you must comply with sanitary measures and temperature checks.
Testing on arrival
The Tunisian authorities have announced that travellers will be subject to a rapid COVID-19 test on arrival. If you test positive, you will be taken into obligatory quarantine at a government-approved hotel at your own expense. See Entry to Tunisia for full entry requirements.
Travellers from all countries need to provide evidence of having taken a coronavirus PCR test that is negative less than 72 hours before your travel to Tunisia. You should arrange to take a test and ensure the certificate is dated. See Entry to Tunisia for full entry requirements.
Data collection
You must complete this Tunisian government short online questionnaire before travelling.
You must download and use the Tunisian government’s ‘track and trace’ application on your mobile phone.
You will also need to enter personal details when booking your second PCR test through this website. Evidence of an appointment booking is required for entry.
On arrival in Tunisia, you must also share your contact details and travel information with authorities.
Testing on departure
No testing is available at the airport or sea ports. Passengers travelling from Tunisia, who require a test for the country they are travelling to, should arrange a private test.
There have been some reports of travellers from Tunisia being denied entry to a third country, on suspicion of carrying fake PCR test results. This may affect you if you are transiting in one country before onward travel to the UK.
For verification, travellers are advised to carry the original copy of their negative PCR test result, and ensure this has been signed and stamped by the laboratory, before travelling. A QR code on digital test results, if provided by the laboratory, can also be presented to verify the result. This applies above all for travel through France.
Regular entry requirements
Visas
British passport holders don’t need a visa for visits of up to three months. On arrival, security checks are sometimes carried out on British passport holders who were not born in the UK. This can take a few hours and you will need to be patient until clearance is given. These types of checks rarely take place on departure.
Overstay fines
If you stay in Tunisia for longer than the authorised period, you will have to pay a fine. This rule may not apply if you are vulnerable and current circumstances oblige you to remain in the country.
Passport validity
For stays of up to 3 months your passport should be valid for the proposed duration of your stay; you don’t need any additional period of validity on your passport beyond this.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
Tunisian authorities accept UK ETDs for entry to and exit from Tunisia. If you’re leaving Tunisia on an ETD, make sure you have a copy of the police report about the loss/theft of your full validity passport to present to the Immigration Officer.
Dual nationals
Dual British-Tunisian nationals should enter and leave Tunisia on their Tunisian passports.
