

Local laws reflect the fact that Tunisia is an Islamic country. Respect local traditions, customs, laws and religions at all times and be aware of your actions to ensure that they don’t offend, especially during the holy month of Ramadan or if you intend to visit religious areas.
Dress codes
In the coastal holiday resorts the dress code is very much like any European city or tourist area, although topless sunbathing on beaches may cause offence. If you are visiting religious sites or more remote areas of Tunisia, you should dress more modestly.
Drugs
Possession, use and trafficking of controlled drugs are all serious criminal offences. The possession of even a small amount of ‘soft’ drugs could result in a prison term.
Exporting antiquities
You should get permission from Customs authorities before removing antiquities from Tunisia. Failure to get permission could result in lengthy delays on departure, a fine and/or imprisonment.
Carrying I.D.
Carry a form of photo ID at all times (for example a copy of your passport) and be prepared to show this to uniformed security officials if asked to do so.
Buying property
British nationals wishing to buy property in Tunisia have often been advised to do so through a Tunisian ‘friend’ on the basis that it is illegal for foreign nationals to purchase property in Tunisia. If you are considering purchasing property in Tunisia, you should consult a local lawyer who will be best placed to offer advice. Don’t make private arrangements, which may be illegal and could result in large financial loss.
LGBT+
Homosexuality is a criminal offence in Tunisia. See our information and advice page for the LGBT+ community before you travel.
Photography and drones
Do not take photographs near sensitive political or military sites.
Any drones brought to Tunisia without prior permission will be confiscated by the Tunisian authorities on arrival in the country and stored until the owner’s departure. Ownership of drones is licensed and gaining a licence is a lengthy process.
