Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

There are currently no commercial options to leave Tunisia. All international flights to and from Tunisia are suspended, including flights to the UK. All ferry services are also suspended.
There are still ad hoc repatriation flights leaving Tunisia. None of these flights are direct to the UK.
What to do
If you’re a British national visiting Tunisia, you should email the British Embassy Tunis consular team at tunisconsular.enquiries@fco.gov.uk with your contact details. You will be contacted by email with details of any flights that become available.
If you are resident in Tunisia, our current advice is that you should remain at home and follow official guidance.
If you cannot leave Tunisia at this time, you should:
follow the advice of local authorities, including local measures to help minimise your risk of exposure to coronavirus
find accommodation that’s suitable for your needs.
keep in regular contact with family and friends at home, so they know you are safe and well.
See more information and advice about staying where you are if you cannot return to the UK
Travel to the airport
As part of measures introduced by the Tunisian government to stop the spread of coronavirus, inter-city travel is currently prohibited. Though persons travelling to Tunis Carthage Airport to board a flight home have so far been able to do so.
Future options
The British Embassy Tunis is in contact with airlines, the Tunisian authorities and other governments to make sure commercial options for returning to the UK are available as soon as possible. We know this is concerning for British people trying to leave Tunisia. The British Embassy Tunis consular team is issuing regular updates about departure options from Tunisia by email (subscribe at tunisconsular.enquiries@fco.gov.uk).
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British Embassy Tunis on Twitter and Facebook.
Arrival in the UK
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British Embassy Tunis on +216 71 108 700.
The Embassy cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone. British Embassy Tunis consular team is issuing regular updates about departure options from Tunisia by email (subscribe at tunisconsular.enquiries@fco.gov.uk). This page will be updated when direct departure options to the UK become available.
Further information
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
