!
Warning
FCDO advises against all travel to parts of Tunisia.

This guide also has safety advice for regions of Tunisia.
Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.    
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Tunisia
Terrorists are very likely to try to carry out attacks in Tunisia.
Security forces remain on a high state of alert in Tunis and other places. You may be at higher risk in and around:
religious sites, tourist sites and festivals
government buildings
public transport networks and vehicles
businesses with western interests
areas where foreign nationals and tourists are known to gather, or any crowded area
The terrorism threat comes from both established groups and self-initiated individuals.
A formal state of emergency has been in place since a terrorist attack against a police bus took place in 2015. The security forces are visibly present in many parts of the country, including at the entry points to some towns and cities.
Despite some improvements in border security, there remains continuing instability and violence on the border with Libya. Tunisian security forces have been the primary target in terrorist-related incidents, mainly in border areas including in the Chaambi Mountains. See Regional risks.
In 2023 a number of terrorist attacks were planned and carried out by self-initiated individuals possibly influenced by terrorist organisations.
Recent significant attacks include: 
in 2023, a National Guard officer was stabbed in the Goulette area of Tunis
in 2023, a police officer was stabbed and killed outside the Brazilian Embassy in Tunis
in 2023, a fatal shooting took place on the island of Djerba, at a Jewish pilgrimage site, with 3 security personnel and 2 civilians killed, and 10 injured
in 2022, 2 security officers were injured in a knife attack near a synagogue in central Tunis
in 2021, police shot and wounded an assailant who attacked them with a knife and axe in front of the Interior Ministry in central Tunis
in 2020, a suicide bombing targeting a police patrol in Tunis killed one police officer and injured 4 others
in June 2015, 38 foreign tourists were killed, including 30 British nationals, in a terrorist attack at Port El Kantaoui near Sousse
in March 2015, 21 tourists were killed, including a British national, in a terrorist attack at the Bardo Museum in the centre of Tunis
Regional escalation
Ongoing hostilities in the region and between Israel and Lebanon could escalate quickly and pose risks for the wider region.
On 1 October, Iran launched around 200 ballistic missiles at Israel. On 26 October Israel carried out military action against Iran.
Monitor this travel advice and other media as the situation is changing fast. Follow and contact FCDO travel on X, Facebook and Instagram. You can also get email notifications when this travel advice is updated.
Read FCDO advice if you’re affected by a crisis abroad.
Political situation
In response to the current situation in Israel and the Occupied Palestinian Territories, peaceful demonstrations have occurred in some Tunisian cities, including outside some western embassies.
Demonstrations and protests are common and may start with little or no warning. They can sometimes become violent. Demonstrations and protests tend to be at weekends and on prominent national dates (which may include 14 January and 17 December). They usually take place in central areas of Tunis and other major cities, and may focus on government buildings.
Labour strikes and industrial action can cause disruption to public transport, airports, seaports and road networks. Land border crossings may have delays or temporary closures. 
The authorities may impose curfews or set up checkpoints at short notice in response to events. To reduce your personal risk:
avoid demonstrations, protests and strikes wherever possible
move away from areas where demonstrations are taking place
obey curfews and other instructions given by the local authorities
monitor events through the media and follow the advice of your hotel and tour operator
Migration from sub-Saharan Africa    
Large numbers of irregular migrants depart from Tunisia for Europe. Many migrants in Tunisia originate from sub-Saharan African countries. This has resulted in heightened social tensions, and anti-migrant protests and violence in some coastal towns, such as Sfax. Incidents could happen with little or no warning and might affect anyone perceived to be of sub-Saharan African origin.
Crime
Protecting yourself and your belongings
The majority of visits to Tunisia are unaffected by crime. The most common crime experienced is theft. Sensible measures to reduce this risk include not displaying expensive items or leaving them unattended, and not carrying unnecessary valuables when in public. Criminals are known to sometimes use confidence tricks as a distraction while carrying out thefts.
Sexual harassment and sexual assault
Reports of sexual harassment and sexual assault statistically increase in the summer months. Reports include trouble in busy public places at night and quieter public parks and beaches during the daytime.
Laws and cultural differences
Personal ID
As a foreign national, you must carry ID, such as a copy of the photo page of your passport. Security officials may ask you for ID at any time. Dual British-Tunisian nationals should carry a copy of the photo page of their passport or their national ID card.
Dress code
Beach-appropriate clothing in holiday resorts is normal, but revealing clothing may cause offence if you are visiting religious sites or remote areas. Clothing that covers shoulders and down to the knee is more appropriate.
Ramadan
Ramadan is a holy month for Muslims. The dates vary by year and country, next starting in February 2025. During this time, eating or drinking, smoking or chewing gum in public in the daytime may cause offence.
Get more advice when you arrive from your tour guide, hotel or business contacts. You should also: 
check opening hours of shops and restaurants
be aware that hotels and restaurants serving food or drink in fasting hours may separate you from Muslim guests, for example with screens
follow local dress codes – clothing that does not meet local dress codes may cause more offence at this time
be aware that fasting can cause tiredness, particularly during the later afternoon and early evening
be patient and show tolerance
Alcohol laws
The sale of alcohol is permitted in Tunisia but is banned from sale in supermarkets on Fridays. You can still order and drink alcohol in hotels and bars. During Ramadan, sale of alcohol is banned and the consumption of alcohol is restricted to fewer restaurants and bars. These rules do not apply at holiday resorts.
Illegal drugs and prison sentences
Possession, use and trafficking of controlled drugs are all serious criminal offences. If you are found with even a small amount of drugs, you could get a prison sentence.
Using cameras in secure areas
Do not take photographs of or near government buildings or military sites.
Buying antiquities
You must get permission from the Tunisian authorities before removing antiquities from Tunisia. Not getting permission in advance can result in lengthy delays on departure. If you do not declare the item, you could get a fine and a prison sentence.
Buying property
It is illegal for foreign nationals to buy property outright in Tunisia. British nationals often do this through a Tunisian third party. If you are considering buying property, consult a local lawyer. Do not make private arrangements, which may be illegal and could result in a large financial loss.
LGBT+ travellers
Same-sex sexual activity is illegal in Tunisia. Members of the LGBT+ community have been targeted by criminals.
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Outdoor activities and adventure tourism
Swimming safety
Some beaches have a flag system. Make sure you understand the system and follow any warnings.
Always supervise children, even if they can swim or there’s a lifeguard present. Take extra care and get local advice if there are no lifeguards, flags or signs.
See water safety on holiday from the Royal Life Saving Society.
Quad bikes
Quad bikes are popular in desert resorts. Take the same precautions as you would in the UK. Safety standards can vary considerably. Always wear a crash helmet.
Transport risks
Road travel
If you are planning to drive in Tunisia, see information on driving abroad.
You can drive in Tunisia for up to one year with a 1968 international driving permit (IDP) and your UK driving licence. You cannot buy an IDP outside the UK, so get one before you travel. You also need to carry a green card to prove you have the minimum insurance cover.
Drink-driving is a serious offence in Tunisia, and the legal limit in Tunisia is stricter than for England and Wales. If you are tested and found to be above the limit, you could get a fine and a prison sentence.
Road conditions and driving standards
Road surfaces are of a reasonable standard in Tunisia, although large potholes can appear after heavy rain. Many towns and villages have unannounced speed bumps. Be careful when approaching sand drifts on roads.
Driving at night can be hazardous outside towns, due to unlit roads, vehicles without lights and livestock on the road. Check the availability of petrol stations with local drivers before travelling long distances in remote areas.
Driving standards can be low. Vehicles entering roundabouts or junctions do not always follow the established right of way. Lane discipline can be poor. Pay particular attention when approaching traffic lights, especially at night, as other drivers may not obey the signals.
Pedestrians tend to walk on the roads and they have the right of way.
You may come across military or police security checkpoints. Approach slowly and do not cross without permission. Be prepared to present ID and driving licence if asked.
Rail travel
Rail travel is generally safe, although safety standards tend to be lower than in the UK. There is a risk of petty crime on trains.
