Coronavirus guidance is being updated.
Read what you can and cannot do

This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Tunisia as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Tunisia to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around during Tunisia
A countrywide curfew is in effect from 11pm to 5am. All schools and nurseries are closed. All cafés and restaurants are closed, with the exception of those operating a takeaway/delivery service. All sporting fixtures, conferences, public prayers and events have been cancelled. Shops and weekly markets are allowed to open, but only during the daytime.
An “obligatory confinement period” is in effect between 5am and 11pm. During this time, people are only expected to leave their house for essential business such as grocery shopping or medical care. The Tunisian government has also prohibited travel between cities and regions. All visitors arriving in Tunisia must self-quarantine for a period of 14 days.
The authorities have announced that the following groups of people must continue to abide by full confinement rules:
Those aged 65 years or over
Children under the age of 15
Pregnant women
People with underlying health conditions
As part of these measures, the Tunisian authorities have announced that wearing a face mask in public places and the workplace is now mandatory. Failure to respect this rule could lead to a fine.
During this phase, you must continue to travel only for good reason such as grocery shopping or medical care. There are also limits on the number of passengers permitted on public transport.
Health
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Tunisia.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Tunisia, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
