!
Warning
FCDO advises against all travel to parts of Tunisia.

Your travel insurance could be invalidated if you travel against advice from the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO).
Areas where FCDO advises against travel
Western Tunisia, including the Tunisia-Algeria border
FCDO advises against all travel to:
the Chaambi Mountains National Park
the designated military operations zones:
Mount Salloum
Mount Sammamma
Mount Mghila
This is due to cross-border terrorist activity and operations by the Tunisian security forces. 
In addition, FCDO advises against all but essential travel to:
areas north and west of the town of Ghardimaou in Jendouba Governorate, including El Feidja National Park
within 30km of the Tunisia-Algeria border in El Kef and Jendouba governorates, south of the town of Jendouba, including the archaeological site of Chemtou
Kasserine Governorate, including the town of Sbeitla
within 10km of the rest of the Tunisia-Algeria border south of Kasserine Governorate
within 10km of Mount Mghila
Mount Orbata
Southern Tunisia, including the Tunisia-Libya border
FCDO advises against all travel to:
the militarised zone south of the towns of El Borma and Dhehiba
within 20km of the rest of the Tunisia-Libya border area north of Dhehiba
the town of Ben Guerdane and immediate surrounding area
This is due to cross-border terrorist activity and fighting in Libya.
In addition, FCDO advises against all but essential travel to within 75km of the Tunisia-Libya border, including Remada, El Borma and the town of Zarzis
Find out more about why FCDO advises against travel.
Before you travel
No travel can be guaranteed safe. Read all the advice in this guide and any specific travel advice that applies to you: 
women travellers
disabled travellers
LGBT+ travellers
solo and independent travel
volunteering and adventure travel
Travel insurance
If you choose to travel, research your destinations and get appropriate travel insurance. Insurance should cover your itinerary, planned activities and expenses in an emergency.
About FCDO travel advice
FCDO provides advice about risks of travel to help British nationals make informed decisions. Find out more about FCDO travel advice.
Get travel advice updates
Sign up to get email notifications when this travel advice is updated.
Follow FCDO:   
travel advice on X
travel advice on Facebook
Travel Aware on Instagram
