Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Cameroon on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
Commercial flights to and from Cameroon remain limited. Check with your travel company for the latest information. You should check FCDO Travel Advice for any entry and transit requirements in the countries on your route.
On 16 December 2020 the Government of Cameroon communicated that a negative COVID-19 test is now required for exit for all international flights, regardless of destination.
To arrange a COVID test, you should call 1510 for advice on your closest testing site. Free tests are available and are normally returned within 48 hours.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Cameroon.
Travel in Cameroon
Travel within the country should be limited to essential travel only. The authorities have banned public transport (taxis, buses, motorbikes) from taking more passengers than they have seats.
You must wear a mask or face covering to be allowed to enter any airport in Cameroon.
See Safety and Security page for information on separatist activity relating to coronavirus.
Accommodation
Accommodation is generally open at the current time.
Public places and services
Gatherings of over 50 people are prohibited. Restrictions on bars, restaurants and entertainment spots have been lifted.
Visits to public institutions, including government buildings, have been limited.
You must wear a face mask in public spaces and there is occasional sanctioning of those people found to have breached restrictions and any confinement measures imposed on them.
Schools and other educational establishments have reopened after closure during the summer of 2020. However, in the North West and South West regions, many remain closed due to the ongoing conflict.
Healthcare in Cameroon
Pharmacies and health centres remain open. Pharmacies have a green cross on a panel. Most are extremely helpful to clients. Pharmacies in Cameroon tend to accept prescriptions drawn up in the UK. Not all pharmacies have full stocks so you should be prepared to have to visit more than one for some drugs – a pharmacy will usually advise you on other possibilities nearby. Most supermarkets do not have a pharmacy inside. If you are hospitalised in Cameroon and need drugs of any kind, you, or an accompanying person, will have to visit a pharmacy (usually in the hospital) to buy the drugs first and then return to the ward before you can be treated. View Health for further details on healthcare in Cameroon.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Cameroon
We will update this page when the Government of Cameroon announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Cameroon national vaccination programme started in April 2021 and is using the AstraZeneca and Sinopharm vaccines. The Government of Cameroon has stated that British nationals resident in Cameroon are eligible for vaccination if they choose to join the programme. Further information on the vaccination programme is available on the Government of Cameroon Ministry of Health website.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in Cameroon, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements. You should contact local authorities for information on testing facilities. See International travel for more information.
Further information
The Cameroonian Ministry of Heath website (English version) has useful public health guidance and the latest on Coronavirus in Cameroon.
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British High Commission on +44 207 008 5000 / +237 222 220 545.
Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British High Commission on Twitter and Facebook to receive the latest information.
