This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Cameroon set and enforce entry rules. For further information contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to. You should also consider checking with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Entry rules in response to coronavirus (COVID-19)
Entry to Cameroon
There are multiple commercial flight options to enter and leave Cameroon. See Coronavirus
Access across Cameroon’s land and sea borders is currently restricted due to COVID-19.
Travel requirements to enter and exit Cameroon can change without notice and without proactive communication. The Centre for the Coordination of Public Health Emergency Operations conditions of entry and exit to Cameroon website is the best source of the latest information.
The British Embassy understands that the following requirements apply:
You must have proof of a recent (no older than 72 hours before first boarding) negative coronavirus PCR test to board your flight to Cameroon and to enter at Yaoundé or Douala Airports.
The Government of Cameroon demands a negative Coronavirus PCR test from all travellers aged five and above. (Some airlines demand a PCR test from travellers aged two and above, so check with your airline.)
Your negative coronavirus test result should be in PDF format, clearly stating the date of the test and the type of test (which should be PCR). Electronic copies are accepted.
You should not use the NHS testing service to get a test in order to facilitate your travel to another country. You should arrange to take a private test.
Testing/screening on arrival
All international travellers are subjected to extra, rapid flow, testing for Coronavirus on arrival at Yaoundé and Douala international airports. This is the Rapid Flow test. At present this includes all passengers arriving in Cameroon. These tests are compulsory. Results are returned while passengers are at the airport. There is no fee.
This is in addition to the requirement to have a negative PCR test 72 hours before embarkation on the first leg of your journey to Cameroon.
Quarantine requirements
If you have a proof of a recent (no older than 72 hours before boarding) negative coronavirus test, you will normally not have to self-isolate. Anyone that has developed symptoms of Coronavirus on their travel or tests positive on arrival at Yaoundé or Douala airport will be held for further enquiries to trace contacts and movements. We believe that anyone testing positive can quarantine at the location of your host or private accommodation until a negative PCR test is produced. These requirements are regularly evolving.
Exit Requirements
All travellers leaving Cameroonian territory must present a negative PCR or a rapid flow test result at the airport from the last 72 hours. We strongly advise that you take a PCR test, with a QR barcode. Your country of destination or transit may have other requirements.
Travellers leaving Cameroon are frequently asked for their Yellow Fever certificate as they pass through security. You should carry it with you as you pass through the airport.
Regular entry requirements
Visas
The Cameroonian High Commission in London has reopened for business.
At present, the Cameroonian government is restricting the issuance of visas to only those coming for essential purposes, such as bereavement, family illness or marriage, as a means of trying to restrict the entry of new variants of COVID-19 into the country. Each visa application is considered on a case-by-case basis.
There is currently no visa-on-arrival service at either Yaoundé or Douala International Airport.
The Government of Cameroon has confirmed it will not penalise British nationals whose visas have expired while they are unable to leave the country due to coronavirus restrictions. Immigration Police will not pursue you if this is your situation, you will be allowed to leave the country freely when able to, and this will not affect your chances of being granted a visa in the future.
If you have a query about your immigration status while in Cameroon, contact the General Delegation for National Security in Yaoundé (telephone: +237 22221 2884).
Dual nationality
Cameroon doesn’t recognise dual nationality in adults. If you have acquired British citizenship but previously held Cameroon citizenship, or as an adult still hold a Cameroon passport, you should not attempt to enter Cameroon on your Cameroonian passport because this is against the law.
Passport validity
Your passport should be valid for a minimum period of six months from the date of entry into Cameroon.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents are accepted for entry into Cameroon, provided they include the necessary visa.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
You must present a yellow fever certificate upon arrival in Cameroon, and you may be asked for it on exit as well. Check the requirements by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
