At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Coronavirus
Cases of coronavirus (COVID-19) have been confirmed in Cameroon. The Cameroon authorities have introduced a number of measures to limit the spread of the virus.
The Cameroon authorities have announced the closure of all its land, sea and air borders, effective from the 18 March. All international flights have been suspended. All entry visas have been suspended.
Protective measures are being implemented at international airports. Those arriving may be asked to undergo additional screening. If you have arrived in Cameroon from countries at risk of coronavirus, the Cameroon authorities recommend that you self-isolate for 14 days before any activity or contact with others. The Government of Cameroon have announced that it is compulsory to present to Diplomatic and Consular representations of Cameroon, the results of a test for coronavirus carried out by an approved institution for entry visas to Cameroon.
You should comply with additional screening measures put in place by the authorities. Keep up to date with information from your tour operator, transport or accommodation provider on the impact on any existing travel plans.
If you need further information about entry requirements, contact the local immigration authorities or the nearest Cameroonian Embassy/High Commission. You should also check with your airline or travel company for the latest information.
Travellers should be prepared for additional travel restrictions to be put in to effect with little or no advance notice.
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
You can find more information about cases in Cameroon on the TravelHealthPro country page.
Medical treatment
Medical facilities in Cameroon are poor. Emergency facilities are extremely limited. For serious medical treatment, medical evacuation to the UK or South Africa will be necessary. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation.
Health risks
UK health authorities have classified Cameroon as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For information and advice about the risks associated with Zika virus, visit the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
In May 2016, the Cameroon Ministry of Livestock Fisheries and Animal Industries confirmed an outbreak of avian influenza (bird flu) at a government owned poultry complex at Mvog-Betsi, a suburb on the outskirts of Yaoundé. You should follow NHS advice on bird flu.
There is a high risk of malaria in Cameroon. There is a risk of yellow fever transmission in all areas of Cameroon. You should take steps to avoid being bitten by mosquitoes.
There is a cholera outbreak in Cameroon, mainly in the Far North but cases have also been confirmed in Douala. See information on cholera
All land, air and maritime restrictions between Cameroon and Ebola affected countries have been lifted. On arrival to Yaounde-Nsimalen Airport (NSI), the Cameroonian Health Authorities use thermal sensors to monitor the temperatures of all passengers arriving into the country. This is done at distance and is non-invasive.
In the 2015 the UNAIDS/WHO Working Group estimated 620,000 people in Cameroon living with HIV of which 580,000 are aged 15 or over; the prevalence percentage was estimated at around 4.5 of the adult population compared to the prevalence percentage in adults in the UK of around 0.25%. You should exercise normal precautions to avoid exposure to HIV and AIDS.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 112 or 113 or 119 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
