!
Warning
FCDO advises against all travel to parts of Cameroon.

This section has safety advice for regions of Cameroon. It only covers regions where FCDO has specific advice.
You should also read FCDO’s overall travel advice and safety and security advice.
The Bakassi Peninsula
FCDO advises against all travel to the Bakassi Peninsula.
There have been armed robberies and incidents of piracy in the Gulf of Guinea, particularly in the waters around the Niger Delta and the Bakassi Peninsula. The ferry that operates between Limbé and Tiko in Cameroon and Calabar in Nigeria passes through areas where pirates operate. Cameroon’s Rapid Intervention Brigade patrols the waters, but it is difficult to police the Bakassi Peninsula’s mangrove forests and isolated islands. Mariners should get professional security advice and take appropriate precautions.
Cameroon-Central African Republic border
FCDO advises against all travel to within 40km of the border with Central African Republic (CAR).
Large, armed criminal gangs and highway bandits have stopped travellers and taken hostages for ransom, particularly in the east of Cameroon, close to the CAR border. Violence frequently spills across the CAR border into Cameroon. Incidents like these are more likely due to the ongoing insecurity in CAR.
Cameroon-Chad border
FCDO advises against all travel to within 40km of the border with Chad.
There is a risk of armed banditry, including poachers in Bouba Ndjida National Park in the North Region.
Cameroon-Nigeria border
FCDO advises against all travel to within 40km of the border with Nigeria, except for Garoua in the North Region.
Far-North Region
FCDO advises against all travel to the Far-North Region, except for:
a 20km radius to the north, east and west of Maroua
30km south of Maroua
Terrorist groups are active in the Far-North Region, see terrorism. There is also a general threat of kidnapping, criminality and armed banditry.
Nigerian military operations in the Nigerian states of Borno, Yobe and Adamawa could have an impact across the border in Cameroon. There have also been a number of reported civilian fatalities in these regions at or near checkpoints due to accidental discharge of weapons.
North-West and South-West regions
FCDO advises against all travel to the North-West Region.
FCDO advises against all travel to the South-West Region, including the towns of Buea, Muyuka and Tiko in Fako Division. Except for:
Limbé
the 35km stretch of the N3 road connecting Limbé to the Littoral region in Fako Division
Non-state armed groups (NSAGs) sometimes use improvised explosive devices (IEDs) to target civilians in the North-West and South-West regions.
Civilians have been killed at or near road checkpoints controlled by NSAGs or government forces. Be cautious when you approach roadblocks.
In recent years Cameroonian security forces and NSAGs have fought multiple times in many parts of the North-West and South-West regions. Restrictions including night curfews and a ban on public meetings are in place in some areas. There is a high risk of violent crime, especially at night.
There have also been a number of reported civilian fatalities in these regions at or near checkpoints due to accidental discharge of weapons.
If you decide to travel to, or within, areas of the English-speaking regions where the FCDO advises against all travel or all but essential travel, you should consider carefully the risks of travel. Monitor developments closely, keep a low profile and minimise your movements.
General strikes
General strikes (or ‘ghost towns’) are called in the English-speaking North-West and South-West regions each Monday. There are often additional days, including in February (around Youth Day, 11 February), May (around National Day on 20 May) and around 1 October (Unofficial Unification Day). There is often violence and travel disruption on these days. 
As events develop, be cautious and regularly check news reports, this travel advice and information from local authorities.
Lake Nyos
Lake Nyos in the North-West Region emitted carbon dioxide in 1986, suffocating about 1,700 people without warning. Although the Cameroon authorities now closely monitor the lake, this situation could repeat with limited warning. The authorities are also concerned that the volcanic dam holding back Lake Nyos is not sufficiently strong. Nearby Lake Mounoun is also saturated with carbon dioxide. 
Limbé
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to Limbé and the 35km stretch of N3 road connecting Limbé to the Littoral Region in Fako Division, South-West Region.
North Region, Adamawa Region and Maroua
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to the rest of North and Adamawa regions, including Garoua in North Region, and a 20km radius to the north, east and west of Maroua, and 30km south of Maroua, in Far-North Region.
