Coronavirus guidance is being updated.
Read the Prime Minister’s statement for the latest information.

There are now some commercial flight options to leave Cameroon, however most international flights are still suspended.
Cameroon’s land and sea borders are closed.
If you live in the UK and are currently visiting Cameroon, you’re strongly advised to return now by commercial means.
UK special charter flights will only operate for priority countries where commercial flights are not possible. You should not assume that these flights will become available in Cameroon because commercial routes are operating. Please do not contact the contracted travel management company if no flight is advertised here.
If you cannot leave Cameroon at this time, see advice on staying in Cameroon during coronavirus.
Flights
Air France has announced that it has resumed limited flights between Paris, Yaoundé and Douala. You should book on their website or in an Air France agency office.
Check for onward flights to the UK from Paris.
Check travel advice for any country that you will transit on the way back to the UK.
If you plan to return via this route, you must fill out a self-declaration form from the French Government, with your intention to travel through France, and present it at the airport. You can find the form here. You must also present a written declaration that you are not suffering from coronavirus symptoms.
Travelling to the airport
You must wear a mask or face covering and gloves to be allowed to enter any airport in Cameroon
Your journey home: re-entering the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK. You:
need to provide your journey and contact details up to 48 hours before you’re due to arrive in the UK
are not allowed to leave the place you’re staying for the first 14 days you’re in the UK except in very limited situations (known as ‘self-isolating’)
See also the list of people who are exempt from the border rules.
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) also provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
Help and support
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British High Commission on +44 207 008 1500 / +237 222220545.
The High Commission cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone. This page will be updated when UK and commercial departure options become available. To get the latest information, sign up for travel advice email alerts.
Further information
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British High Commission on Twitter and Facebook to receive the latest information.
