Crime
Mugging and armed banditry are a problem throughout Cameroon but particularly in Yaoundé, Douala, Ngaoundere and Bafoussam.
Avoid isolated or poorer areas of towns; e.g. in Yaoundé, La Briquetterie and Mokolo market, and in Douala, Nkololun, New Bell, Akwa, Bonaberi and Village. Avoid walking around at night, particularly alone.
Be vigilant in public places. Trouble can flare up unexpectedly (e.g. at football matches). Make sure car doors are locked when driving around. Avoid wearing jewellery and only carry small amounts of cash and valuables.
Close and lock all doors and windows, particularly at night. Make sure burglar proof metal bars are installed. Identify callers through spy holes before opening doors, especially late at night.
Petty theft is common on trains, coaches and bush taxis and around bus stations and hotels. Taxis in cities operate like buses, picking up passengers while there is still room in the car. They often take indirect routes and many do not meet basic safety requirements. There have been reports of violent assaults and robberies on taxi passengers. You should not use taxis that you hail from the roadside (these are yellow in Yaoundé and Douala). Only use trusted, pre-arranged taxis and preferably book one from your hotel or restaurant.
Car-jackings, kidnappings and armed robberies have occurred along roads close to the borders with Central African Republic (CAR), Chad and Nigeria, and along the Bamenda-Banyo, Bafoussam-Banyo, Bafoussam-Doula and Yaoundé-Garoua Boulai-Ngaoundere roads. There are frequent instances of violence in CAR spilling across the border to Cameroon. Following the disputed election result in CAR in December 2020, and consequent insecurity in that country, there is now an even greater likelihood of this violence spilling over.
Criminality by large gangs and hostage taking for ransom are also a threat more widely in Adamawa region. In January 2017, an armed group attacked a UN border monitoring team near the Nigerian border killing five people.
There have been incidents of kidnapping and hostage taking in the Far North, North, Adamawa, East, North West and South West regions of Cameroon. The long-standing policy of the British government is not to make substantive concessions to hostage takers. The British government considers that paying ransoms and releasing prisoners increases the risk of further hostage taking.
Foreign visitors and residents are often targets of scam artists. The scams come in many forms, and can cause significant financial loss. Scammers also target individuals and companies in the UK via websites, chat-rooms and by email. Advance fee scams are common in Cameroon. Cases involving the alleged adoption of children have been reported. Be very cautious about sending money or travelling to Cameroon to adopt a child where the information has come from a website or through emails. Cameroon does not have adoption agencies. Many victims are persuaded to pay large amounts of money before they suspect anything.
If you need to contact the Police, call 117. If you have been a victim of fraud from a police official, you should call 1500. If you need to contact the fire service, call 118.
Local travel
Terrorist groups Boko Haram and Islamic State West Africa (ISWA) are active in the Far North. There is also a general threat of kidnapping, criminality and armed banditry. In December 2021 instances of inter-communal violence along the border with Chad occurred resulting in the movement of a large number of people. If you are in the Far North region outside of the amber zone, you should leave.
The ability of the High Commission to offer consular services in the Far North, North and Adamawa regions is limited.
The FCDO advises against all travel to within 40 km of the border with Chad because of armed banditry, including poachers in Bouba Ndjida National Park in the North region.
The FCDO advises against all travel to within 40 km of the border with the Central African Republic (CAR). There have been incursions by armed men from CAR and there have been fatalities. Armed banditry and kidnapping remains a risk.
Take great care if you travel to the northern regions of Cameroon by road. The eastern route via Garoua-Boulai and Meiganga involves driving close to the border with CAR. The western route needs travel along the Bamenda-Banyo axis. The central route via Yoko requires travel on very poorly maintained roads through largely uninhabited areas, crossing a number of bridges in a poor state of repair. There is no fuel available on the route. If you must attempt this drive, carry plenty of water, sufficient fuel to enable you to turn back if necessary, a spare tyre and a satellite phone or VHF radio to summon assistance if needed.
North West and South West (Anglophone) regions
The FCDO advises against all travel to the North West and South West regions, except Limbe in Fako division, where the FCDO advises against all but essential travel.
IEDs are increasingly being used by non-state armed groups and have previously been used to target civilians in the North West and South West regions. There have also been a number of reported civilian fatalities in these regions at or near checkpoints due to accidental discharge of weapons.
You should remain vigilant of separatist groups trying to implement a ban on travel into or out of the North West and South West regions. They may also take action to enforce the following within the two regions: forbidding travel by bus and taxi and restricting motorbike passengers to one; requiring the wearing of a mask outside; forbidding gatherings of more than 20 people and social distancing of at least two metres, and requiring personal protective equipment at restricted gatherings.
In December 2019, a local commercial air carrier (Camair-Co) was hit by gunshots while flying into Bamenda Airport in the North West region. You should follow the advice of the local security authorities and/or your tour operator if you’re thinking about using Camair-Co.
General strikes (or ‘ghost towns’) are called in the North West and South West (Anglophone) regions for each Monday, with additional days often called in particular periods including February, May and October. Violence and travel disruption is regularly reported on these days. You should be vigilant, monitor local media and avoid travelling within the region on such days.
There have been multiple clashes between the Cameroonian security forces and armed groups over recent years in many places in the North West and South West regions. Restrictions including night curfews and a ban on public meetings, which were imposed following violent and deadly clashes in 2017, remain in place in some areas. There is a high risk of violent criminality, especially at night.
If you decide to travel to, or within, areas of the Anglophone regions where the FCDO advises against all travel or all but essential travel, you should consider carefully the risks of travel, monitor developments closely, keep a low profile and minimise your movements.
Piracy is a threat in the Gulf of Guinea and particularly in the waters around the Niger Delta and the Bakassi Peninsula. Cameroon’s Rapid Intervention Brigade (BIR) patrol the waters. The ferry that operates between Limbe/Tiko in Cameroon and Calabar in Nigeria passes through areas where pirates operate. The Bakassi Peninsula is made up of mangrove forests and isolated islands that are difficult to police. Mariners should seek professional security advice and take appropriate precautions.
Lake Nyos
Lake Nyos in the North West Region emitted carbon dioxide in 1986, suffocating about 1,700 people. There were no warning signs that this would happen and it could happen again at any time. There is also a concern that the wall of the dam holding back Lake Nyos is not sufficiently strong. Nearby Lake Mounoun is also saturated with carbon dioxide.
Political situation
There are occasional isolated incidents of political unrest around the country. On 22 September 2020, the opposition Cameroon Renaissance Movement, held protests across Cameroon. There were reports of arrests and violence in parts of Yaoundé, Douala and Bafoussam. You should remain vigilant, avoid large gatherings and monitor local media.
Political developments and increased tensions related to the North West and South West (Anglophone) regions could lead to isolated incidents of violence in other parts of the country. This could affect western interests, as well as places frequented by foreigners. In late November 2020 a threat was made against diplomatic missions in Yaoundé, including the British High Commission. You should remain vigilant when moving around the city.
On 2 July 2022, an IED was detonated at Mokolo market in Yaoundé. Four people were injured in the explosion. On 12 July 2022, another IED was detonated at the Mokolo Market in Yaounde, injuring one person.
On 21 February 2021, a small IED was detonated in Etoudi market in Yaoundé. There were no deaths, though some individuals were reportedly injured. On 31 January 2021 a small IED was detonated in Douala, injuring two people, who were almost certainly the perpetrators. In November 2020, an attempt was made to detonate an IED near the rail junction in Bonabéri, west of Douala. In the same month a small IED also detonated in the Obobogo-Columbia neighbourhood of Yaoundé. Several other IEDs were detonated in Yaoundé in June, July and August 2020.
In the wake of most recent detonations of IEDs in Yaoundé, government officials sent out a communiqué asking that people refrain from leaving bags and packages in public places, and advising that the security forces are to investigate the carrying of black plastic bags. Police checks are likely to become more frequent for a time.
It is possible that more attacks will occur in urban areas, or other locations around the country, in the future. You should remain vigilant and keep up to date with developments via the media and local authorities.
Road travel
Avoid all travel by road at night in rural areas, particularly on the Yaoundé-Douala road, where accidents are common. Plan your journey carefully and travel in convoy, where possible. As mobile phone coverage is limited you should consider taking a VHF radio or satellite phone.
You can drive using a UK driving licence or International Driving Permit on first arrival. If staying for more than six months, you should obtain a Cameroonian licence from the Delegation of Transport as soon as possible.
Make sure any car you hire is adequately insured, preferably by written confirmation from the insurance company (rather than the car hire firm). If you’re hiring a driver and car, make sure you’re not liable for any accident or damage.
Roads in Cameroon are generally in poor condition. Many are badly pot-holed. Street lighting, where it exists, is poor. Pedestrians and stray animals on roads are a hazard. Many vehicles are poorly lit and badly driven.
Roadblocks set up by the police or gendarmerie are common throughout Cameroon. You may be asked to show your passport, driving licence or vehicle registration documents. There are regular reports of uniformed members of the security forces stopping motorists on the pretext of minor or non-existent violations of local vehicle regulations in order to extort small bribes. Do not pay bribes; instead, ask the officer to provide a ticket, setting out the alleged offence so that you can pay at a local court.
Air travel
There is only one local airline operating between a few of the major cities, Camair-co. Scheduled flights are subject to frequent delays and cancellations. Due to aviation safety standards, we advise against taking flights that use the XIAN MA-60, which is used occasionally for internal flights. Several international airlines fly into Cameroon.
Rail travel
There is a railway from Douala-Yaoundé-Ngaoundéré. In October 2016, a train leaving Yaoundé en route to Douala derailed at Eseka (120km from Yaoundé and 160km from Douala). Official sources in Cameroon confirmed the death of at least 80 people, with over 500 injured. The railway is now functioning again. Details of services and times are on the Camrail website. You should confirm departure and arrival times on the day of departure.
