This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Cameroon as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Cameroon to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Cameroon
Travel within the country should be limited to essential travel only. The authorities have banned public transport (taxis, buses, motorbikes) from taking more passengers than they have seats.
Gatherings of over 50 people are prohibited. Restrictions on bars, restaurants and entertainment spots have now been lifted.
Visits to public institutions, including government buildings, have been limited.
Additional measures include the requirement to wear face masks in public spaces and a systematic sanctioning of those people found to have breached restriction and confinement measures imposed on them.
Schools and other educational establishments have been shut down and all exams and competitions cancelled until 1 June when they will resume.
Pharmacies and health centres remain open.
See Safety and Security page for information on separatist activity relating to coronavirus.
Visas
The Government of Cameroon has confirmed it will not penalise British nationals whose visas have expired while they are unable to leave the country due to coronavirus restrictions. Immigration Police will not pursue you if this is your situation, you will be allowed to leave the country freely when able to, and this will not affect your chances of being granted a visa in the future.
Health
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Cameroon.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Cameroon, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
