The Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) advises against all travel to:
Far North region except a 20km radius to the north, east and west of Maroua, and 30 km south of Maroua (see below)
within 40km of the border with Nigeria, except Garoua in North region (see below)
within 40km of the border with Chad
within 40km of the border with the Central African Republic (CAR)
North West region
South West region (including the towns of Buea, Muyuka and Tiko in Fako division), except Limbe in Fako division (see below)
the Bakassi Peninsula
The FCDO advises against all but essential travel to:
Limbe in Fako division, South West region
the rest of North and Adamawa regions, including Garoua in North region, and a 20km radius to the north, east and west of Maroua, and 30km south of Maroua, in Far North region
COVID-19 entry restrictions for Cameroon
Before you travel, check the ‘Entry requirements’ section for Cameroon’s current entry restrictions and requirements. These may change with little warning. Monitor this advice for the latest updates and stay in contact with your travel provider.
Travelling from and returning to the UK
Check what you must do to travel abroad and return to England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
If you plan to pass through another country to return to the UK, check the travel advice for the country you’re transiting. If you will pass through a red list country, book your hotel quarantine package before travelling to the UK.
If you’re planning travel to Cameroon, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCDO’s guidance on foreign travel insurance.
For information about COVID-19 vaccines, see the Coronavirus page.
The Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) will run from 9 January to 6 February 2022 and will be hosted in Cameroon. Matches will take place in Yaoundé, Douala, Bafoussam, Limbe and Garoua. These cities will be busier than usual during this period and there to be a heightened risk of petty crime, particularly at night. You should read this travel advice in full, noting the areas to which the FCDO advises against all or all but essential travel. The FCDO advises against all but essential travel to the host cities of Limbe and Garoua. You should pay close attention to our Safety and security advice if you plan to travel to Cameroon for AFCON. For more information, visit TourCMR, Cameroon’s National Travel Guide Appp for AFCON 2021.
During the night of 8/9 March 2021, small arms fire was reported in Mandjoua, a town near Bertoua in the Eastern Region, and later repelled by security forces. No casualties were reported. There have been some suggestions that this was linked to rebel actors from CAR, but the situation remains unclear. You should exercise caution when travelling east of Bertoua. See Safety and Security.
General strikes (or ‘ghost towns’) are called in the North West and South West (Anglophone) regions for each Monday, with additional days often called in particular periods including February, May and October. Violence and travel disruption is regularly reported on these days. If you decide to travel to, or within, areas of the North West and South West regions where the FCDO advises against all travel or all but essential travel, you should consider carefully the risks of travel, monitor developments closely, keep a low profile and minimise your movements. See North West and South West (Anglophone) regions
Political developments and increased tensions related to the North West and South West (Anglophone) regions could lead to isolated incidents of violence in other parts of the country. This could affect western interests, as well as places frequented by foreigners. You should enhance your vigilance and plan your movements carefully. In late November, a threat was made against diplomatic missions in Yaoundé, including the British High Commission. You should remain vigilant when moving around the city.
On 31 January a small IED was detonated in Douala, injuring two people, who were almost certainly the perpetrators. Last year, on 18 November 2020, an attempt was made to detonate an IED near the rail junction in Bonabéri, west of Douala. On 1 November a small IED detonated in the Obobogo-Columbia neighbourhood of Yaoundé. Several other IEDs were detonated in Yaoundé in June, July and August 2020. It is possible that more attacks will occur in urban areas, or other locations around the country, in the future. You should remain vigilant and keep up to date with developments via the media and local authorities. See Political situation
Terrorists are very likely to try to carry out attacks in Cameroon, particularly in the Far North region. Attacks could be indiscriminate, including in places visited by foreigners such as restaurants, bars, markets, hotels, shopping centres and places of worship. The terrorist group Boko Haram and the Islamic State West Africa (ISWA) is active in the Far North region but attacks could occur anywhere, potentially including major towns and cities such as Yaoundé and Douala. There have been numerous suicide attacks since 2015, which have resulted in over 200 dead in the Far North region, although since 2017 these have been predominately adjacent to the border with Nigeria. Key targets have been large open markets, hotels, parks and sporting venues. There have also been hostages taken and heavy gunfights reported in Babouang and Mbarang in Adamawa region (Cameroon). See Terrorism
There is a heightened threat of kidnap to western nationals in the north of Cameroon, including in the major cities and along the border between the Far North region and Nigeria. Boko Haram has publicly threatened Cameroon with attacks and further kidnappings due to Cameroon’s involvement in the regional fight to counter Boko Haram.
There have been reports of criminality including large armed gangs and highway bandits, stopping travellers, taking hostages and demanding payment, particularly in the east of Cameroon, close to the Central African Republic (CAR) border. There are frequent instances of violence in CAR spilling across the border to Cameroon and following the disputed election result in CAR in late December 2020, and consequent insecurity in that country, there is now an even greater likelihood of this occurring. See Crime
Nigerian military operations in the states of Borno, Yobe and Adamawa in Nigeria could have an impact across the border in Cameroon.
Avoid travelling at night across Cameroon unless absolutely necessary, due to risks from criminality, poor infrastructure and erratic driving.
UK health authorities have classified Cameroon as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For information and advice about the risks associated with Zika virus, visit the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
There are increased reports of piracy in the Gulf of Guinea. Take great care when travelling in coastal waters, including the coastline of Cameroon and the Doula port. Despite the high crime levels, most visits to Cameroon are trouble-free. Only a few British nationals needed consular assistance in the past year.
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission. Consular support is severely limited in parts of Cameroon (particularly East, Far North, North-West and South-West).
