Coronavirus guidance is being updated.
Read the Prime Minister’s statement for the latest information.

The information on this page covers the most common types of travel and reflects the UK government’s understanding of the rules currently in place. Unless otherwise stated, this information is for travellers using a full ‘British Citizen’ passport.
The authorities in the country or territory you’re travelling to are responsible for setting and enforcing the rules for entry. If you’re unclear about any aspect of the entry requirements, or you need further reassurance, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
You should also consider checking with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Restrictions in response to coronavirus
Nauru authorities are requesting all persons to consider whether travel to Nauru is necessary and all persons are asked to cancel or postpone any non-essential travel to Nauru.
Passengers who have transited through, or have been in mainland China, Hong Kong, Macao, Iran, Italy, Korea, Europe, USA or Asia (except Taiwan) in the past 21 days, will not be allowed to enter Nauru.
Effective 16 March 2020, all persons arriving in Nauru will be required to spend up to 14 days in “approved Transition Accommodation” before entry into Nauru.
All persons travelling to Nauru are required to undergo pre-travel screening.
The Government of Australia has announced that from 9pm Australia Eastern Standard Time on 20 March, entry to the country will only be permitted to Australian citizens or permanent residents. This follows a similar announcement by New Zealand from 19 March. As many flight connections to and from Nauru connect in Australia and New Zealand, options to depart Nauru are likely to reduce.
If you’re currently a visitor in Nauru, you’re advised to prepare to leave as soon as possible
Visas
British passport holders need a visa before travelling to Nauru.  For details on how to apply contact:
Nauru High Commission, Ratu Sukuna House, Victoria Parade, PO Box 2420, Government Buildings, Suva, Republic of Fiji, Tel: + 679 331 3566/331 2032, Fax: + 679 331 2032/331 8311, e-mail: naurulands@connect.com.fj
or:
Nauru Consulate General, Level 3, 99 Creek Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000, Tel: +61 7 3220 3044, email: nauru.consulate@brisbane.gov.nr or:
Director of Immigration, Customs and Immigration, Department of Justice, Government Building, Yaren District, Republic of Nauru, Tel: + 674 444 3152 / 3162, Fax: + 674 444 3832.
Passport validity
Your passport should be valid for a minimum period of 3 months from the date of entry into Nauru.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are accepted for entry to, and exit from Nauru. You should consult the immigration authority in Nauru to confirm before travelling and you should be aware that there is no British High Commission in Nauru to issue replacement travel documents once in country.
