If you have a health condition, or you are pregnant, you may need specialist healthcare abroad. Check whether your destination country can provide the healthcare you may need and ensure you have appropriate travel insurance for unexpected medical evacuation or local treatment.
See the Coronavirus travel health and Healthcare sections in the Coronavirus page for COVID-19 health information.
At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or bought in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) .
Medical facilities in Nauru are very basic and medical evacuation by air ambulance to Australia is necessary in most cases. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation.
Nauru is subject to periodic outbreaks of typhoid.
You should take steps to avoid being bitten by mosquitoes and follow the advice of the National Travel Health Network and Centre.
There have been reports of visitors being bitten by stray dogs. Be vigilant, particularly on the beach. If you’re approached by a dog, do not run. Reaching down as if to pick up something off the ground can be enough to scare dogs away. If you’re bitten seek medical attention immediately.
Medical personnel and related flight crew, travelling to and entering Nauru for the purposes of a medical evacuation, are exempt from the travel restrictions, provided the appropriate protective equipment is utilised during the journey and in public spaces and the personnel or crew member is not displaying any symptoms.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 117 or 118 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you’re referred to a medical facility for treatment
