Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Chile on the TravelHealthPro website.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
From 26 July, the Chilean government’s new ‘Fronteras Protegidas’ (Protected Borders) Plan will be in force. Travellers from/to Santiago Airport must take into account that:
You are allowed to leave Chile if you are:
a Chilean or a resident foreign national holding either
A valid ‘Mobility Pass’ Pase de Movilidad. Children who do not hold a ‘Mobility Pass’. They may request a special permit (Autorización Excepcional al Extranjero) on the Comisaría virtual website. You should be aware that the Mobility Pass is only available for Chilean and resident foreign nationals who have been vaccinated in Chile; or
A special permit (Autorización Excepcional Viaje al Extranjero) issued on the Comisaria Virtual website; or if you are
a non-resident foreign national holding a valid passport from your country of origin.
You are allowed to enter Chile if you are:
a Chilean national or a resident foreign national; or
a non-resident foreign national only if you
hold a Special Entry Permit (Salvoconducto) issued by a Chilean Consulate.
or you fall into one of the ‘exceptions’ listed in Decree 102.
See Entry requirements for further information.
All other non-resident foreign nationals are not allowed to enter Chile until further notice.
Public health measures on arrival in Chile
All travellers (including Chileans, resident and authorised non-resident foreign nationals) require a negative PCR test SARS-COV2 (rapid PCR or antigen tests will not be accepted) taken within 72-hours of boarding the flight to enter Chile.
Additionally, an affidavit (Declaración Jurada) must be completed before entry. This will generate a QR-code by separate email, which must be shown on arrival. See Entry Requirements.
Upon arrival, travellers may be required to undergo a PCR or antigen test, even when they can hold a negative PCR test result. All passengers are required to have their temperature taken on arrival.
You should be aware that Chilean authorities require the use of facemasks in all public spaces, including the airport and in public transport. You risk a significant fine for not wearing a mask in public.
All travellers (including Chileans, resident and non-resident foreign nationals) must complete a mandatory 10-day quarantine on arrival in Chile and health authorities at Santiago Airport will require completion of a follow-up email form for 14 days from the arrival date.
From Friday 6 August 2021 onwards, the Chilean government is allowing Chileans and foreigners resident in Chile who have been vaccinated overseas to register for Chile’s Mobility Pass scheme (‘Pase de Movilidad’). You may obtain a Mobility Pass if you fulfil the eligibility criteria on the Chile Government’s MeVacuno website. More details on accepted vaccines and the process to apply for the Mobility Pass, including the documents required to validate the vaccination, is available here (in Spanish).
Travellers must complete mandatory quarantine at their private residence or at a ‘transit’ hotel depending on their circumstances.
At private residences:
only travellers holding a valid ‘Mobility Pass’ (Pase de Movilidad) and families with under age children. The latter group must provide the same address for all family members.
all travellers must use private transportation to get to the registered address directly within a 5-hour maximum. You are allowed to take taxis and shuttles (not sharing beyond your traveller group) that are Santiago Airport affiliated. You should be aware that the use of shared public transport, including buses, train and planes is prohibited.
all other residents at the registered quarantine address must also quarantine for 10 days, along with the travellers.
all the residents details at the quarantine address must also be registered in the affidavit (Declaración jurada) prior to entry. See Entry requirements.
At transit hotel (Hotel de tránsito):
Obligatory for adults who do not hold a valid Mobility Pass at the time of entry.
Travellers holding a Mobility Pass who do not have a quarantine address within 5 hours travelling time in private transport.
You can book a transit hotel on the affidavit (Declaracion Jurada) you must complete prior to your departure to Chile.
The cost of the stay in a transit hotel must be paid by the traveller, even if you left Chile before 28 March.
Travellers will be transferred to the chosen transit hotel by the health authorities (SEREMI) at the airport.
Authorised non-resident foreigners who have been vaccinated overseas cannot apply for a Mobility Pass and must quarantine in a transit hotel.
Please note that Chilean authorities may make surprise checks at your quarantine residence to ensure compliance. They may also request you to carry out further tests during the quarantine period and if positive, they will require you to isolate in a transit hotel.
Check the Santiago Airport official website (in English) for further information.
If you plan to return to the UK, make sure you have not overstayed on your Chilean visa – this could affect your departure. If you have any concerns about visa renewal, visit the Chilean Immigration Office website for further information.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Chile.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements. You should contact local authorities for information on testing facilities (in Spanish, under the ‘Laboratories PCR SARS-CoV-2’ tab).
From 8 June, direct flights can arrive in England from Chile, but they must arrive at dedicated terminals at Heathrow and Birmingham airports. Different requirements may apply for arrivals into Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Chile
Travellers arriving in Santiago should be aware that local authorities frequently move municipalities (comunas) back and forth through the quarantine Stages Plan (Paso a Paso). You should review the Chilean Government Paso a Paso website.
If you are travelling from or to the airport to catch a flight from or to one of the areas under quarantine or curfew, presenting your passport and boarding pass will permit you to cross any checkpoints. Use a recognised taxi service or airport transfer whose driver should have the requisite permissions.
Chilean authorities require the use of face masks in all public spaces / public transport, including the airport. You risk a significant fine for not wearing a mask in public.
From 15 July, there will be two curfew regimes depending on the public health situation and the numbers of vaccinated residents in each region. One curfew is from 10pm to 5am and the other from midnight to 5am (regions with less of 150 active COVID-19 cases and more than 80% vaccinated residents). You should check this information with local health authorities or on the Ministry of Health website, which is updated daily. If you have a medical emergency or funeral during curfew times, you must request a permit (Salvoconducto) online.
Be aware that if you wish to travel to Magallanes Region, you might be required to provide proof of a negative PCR-test result given within 72 hours prior to travel. You should get in contact with your transport operator.
On 28 July 2020, the Chilean government introduced a five stage plan, “Plan Paso A Paso”, for managing and explaining changes in restrictions applied in different regions.
On Wednesday 26 May 2021, the government introduced a special mobility pass (‘Pase de Movilidad’) for vaccinated residents in ‘comunas’ in ‘Cuarentena’ (Stage 1) and ‘Transition’ (Stage 2). You can request the ‘Pase de Movilidad’ on the ‘MeVacuno’ website. This will generate a QR-code after entering your personal information. This permit can only be requested 14-days after completing a full COVID-19 vaccination course in Chile (ie after the second dose for a two-dose course COVID-19 vaccine such as AstraZenica, Pfizer, etc).
From Friday 6 August 2021 onwards, the Chilean government is allowing Chileans and foreigners resident in Chile who have been vaccinated overseas to register for Chile’s Mobility Pass scheme (‘Pase de Movilidad’). You may obtain a Mobility Pass if you fulfil the eligibility criteria on the Chile Government’s MeVacuno website. More details on accepted vaccines and the process to apply for the Mobility Pass, including the documents required to validate the vaccination, is available here (in Spanish).
The COVID MODE Strategy should be followed in all stages and requires that you respect national/local/regional restrictions at all times: wear face masks on public transport and in: public spaces including shops and supermarkets; keep to social distancing rules; self-isolate immediately if you suspect you have been in contact with a confirmed COVID case.
From 15 July, the mobility rules and permitted numbers for gatherings will vary depending on whether you hold a mobility pass (Pase de Movilidad) and the ‘Paso a Paso’ stage of the ‘comuna’:
Stage 1: Quarantine. Mobility Pass holders: free movement only within the ‘comuna’; restricted gathering capacity on funerals, weddings and religion ceremonies; outdoor exercise activities are allowed at any time. Non-Mobility Pass holders: restricted mobility; permits required for essential activity; a maximum of two a week including one only at weekends; Evening curfew between 10pm to 5am social distancing and cordon sanitaire in place; obligatory quarantine for those over 75, except on Mondays, Thursdays and Saturdays between 9am to 11am for 60 minutes or between 4pm to 6pm; prohibition of movement to secondary home. Outdoor exercise activities are allowed from Monday to Friday between 5am to 9am and on weekends and bank holidays between 5am to 10am. You should review the Chilean Government Paso a Paso website.
Stage 2: Transition. Quarantine remains in place at weekends and bank holidays. Mobility Pass holders: free mobility at any time; interregional travels are allowed to any other ‘comuna’; social gatherings are allowed with maximum 10 people (all Mobility Pass holders); out/indoor exercise activities are allowed. Non-Mobility Pass holders: social gatherings of no more than five people allowed inside; Evening curfew regime depends on regional health situation , social distancing and cordon sanitaire in place and a prohibition on movement to other regions. Outdoor exercise activities are allowed from Monday to Friday at any time (except on curfew). On weekends and bank holidays between 5am to 10am. You should review the Chilean Government Paso a Paso website.
Stage 3: Preparation. Under this stage there are no mobility restrictions within the comuna; Mobility Pass holders: free movement among comunas and interregional travel is allowed; social gathering with maximum 20 people (all Mobility Pass holders); in/outdoor exercise activities are allowed at any time. Non Mobility Pass holders: social gatherings capped at 10 people; Evening curfew regime depends on regional health situation social distancing and cordon sanitaire in place; and interregional travel is only allowed to regions in Stage 3, 4 and 5. In/Outdoor activities are allowed. You should review the Chilean Government Paso a Paso website.
Stage 4: Initial opening. Significant step that aims to re-open certain low risk activities and to avoid crowds and physical contact. Social gatherings with no more than 40 people permitted if all are Mobility Pass holders; cinemas, theatres, restaurants and cafes allowed to function at 25% capacity; restaurants and cafés allowed to open to the public at 25% capacity; Evening curfew regime depends on regional health situation , social distancing still required; pubs and clubs remain closed; Interregional travel is only allowed to regions in Stage 3 and 4. You should review the Chilean Government Paso a Paso website for more details.
The Government’s ‘Paso a Paso’ website outlines which phase-out stage each comuna of Chile is under the heading (‘Situación Comunal’).
In those areas under Stage 1 ‘quarantine’ you are only allowed to leave your residence under certain circumstances, including for medical reasons, basic services, and public services. If you need to leave your residence for food or medical supplies, you must get a permit from the Comisaria Virtual. Foreigners may use their passport number to access the system. The pages are only in Spanish.
You should be aware that the ‘Pase de Movilidad’ may allow you to move freely among ‘comunas’ in Stage 1 and 2 and interregional travel between ‘comunas’ in Stage 2, 3 and 4.
Individuals that wish to pass the sanitary cordons must obtain a “Salvoconducto” permit and a “Health Passport” (“pasaporte sanitario”) (under “viajeros regionales” for residents or “viajeros regionales” for foreign visitors), at least 24 hours before.
Information on the areas of Chile that have sanitary cordons is available on the Government’s ‘Plan de Acción’.
Checkpoints for health inspections are in force at various points around Santiago and elsewhere. In addition to checking the health of persons passing through, these checkpoints will be used to confirm that specific individuals who have been ordered to quarantine by medical authorities are not violating their quarantine. You will need to get a “Health Passport” prior to travel and present it at any checkpoint.
Public places and services
Chilean authorities require the use of face masks in all public spaces, irrespective of what stage of the quarantine phase-out a comuna is in.
Healthcare in Chile
Further advice and information (in Spanish) is available on the Ministry of Health (Ministerio de Salud) website.
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
If you think you have COVID-19 symptoms, you should call the Health Ministry’s COVID-19 hotline on 6003607777.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Chile.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Chile
We will update this page when the Government of Chile announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Chilean national vaccination programme started in December 2020 and is using the Pfizer-BioNTech, Sinovac, CanSino and AstraZeneca vaccines. The Government of Chile has stated that British nationals resident in Chile are eligible for vaccination if they choose to join the programme, however tourists are not included. Further information is available on the Chilean Government website (in Spanish). Resident Foreign Nationals can apply for their vaccine according to the schedule on the Chilean Government website (key workers, the elderly and those with underlying health conditions have been prioritised). Vaccination in Chile is voluntary and free of charge. Resident foreign nationals must present proof of their resident status.
The Chilean vaccination programme also permits residents aged 12-17 to register for a Pfizer-BioNTech vaccination. If you are considering a vaccination for somebody in this age group, you should seek medical advice from their local healthcare provider.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in Chile, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British Embassy on +56223704100, pressing 1 for English and then follow the instructions.
