This page has information on travelling to Chile. Check what you must do to return to the UK.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport from the UK, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Chile set and enforce entry rules.
All travellers
All travellers should familiarise themselves with the entry rules for Chile before travel. If you are not fully vaccinated and you are a non-resident foreigner, you cannot enter Chile.
If you are a British passport holder visiting Chile for less than 90 days, you do not need a visa. Your passport should be valid for the proposed duration of your stay. No additional period of validity beyond this is required.
If you’re fully vaccinated
To enter Chile as a fully vaccinated non-resident foreign national you must:
have a negative PCR test SARS-COV-2 (rapid and antigen tests are not accepted), taken no more than 72 hours before boarding the final flight into Santiago. Children under 2 years old do not need to meet this requirement
have a valid Mobility Pass (‘Pase de movilidad’). You must validate your vaccination status, to obtain a Mobility Pass, with Chilean authorities prior to travelling. To apply for a Mobility Pass visit ‘MeVacuno website’. Foreign visitors can create an account with an email address to access the site. You should allow at least 30 days for your Mobility Pass application to be processed. After registering your vaccines, and once approved, a mobility pass document with a QR code will be issued. Entry will be denied to all tourists without this Mobility Pass approved. Children under 6 years old who have not been able to access a vaccination program do not need to meet this requirement
The only exceptions to enter Chile without a Mobility Pass are listed in Decree No. 295 issued by the Ministry of Interior (Available in Spanish only). You should contact the nearest Chilean Consulate/Embassy prior to travel if you believe this applies to you
hold proof of travel insurance covering a minimum of $30,000 USD for COVID-related issues for the entire duration of your stay
complete an affidavit (Declaración Jurada) up to 48 hours before boarding. This will generate a QR-code document (sent by e-mail), which you must show to the airline when checking-in and during the health screening process on arrival in Chile. Health authorities at Santiago Airport will request all travellers complete a daily ‘self-report’ – for 7 days – via an online form or ‘C19 AutoReporte’ application. The health authorities will provide the detail of this process by email following the health screening.
Upon arrival, you should follow the instructions of airport authorities to undergo an antigen or PCR test SARS-COV-2 either in the airport or at an external laboratory outside the airport. If the latter, you will need to do this within 24 hours of arrival. If you undergo an antigen test, you will need to wait for the results in the airport. If the result is positive, non-resident foreigners will be denied entry into the country.
As a non-resident foreigner, you will need to remain in quarantine until you receive the negative PCR test SARS-COV-2 result. Airport staff will explain how you can check your result online.
Non-resident foreign nationals with two vaccinations will be entitled to a Mobility Pass valid for 30 days and those with a booster shot will be entitled to 90 days.
Please bear in mind that you will be required to show your Mobility Pass to enter many private and public places in Chile.
More information about what you need to do when you enter Chile can be found here, selecting Information for foreigners (tourists), Protected Borders.
Find out if you qualify as fully vaccinated in Chile on the following link MeVacuno website.
To enter Chile as a fully vaccinated foreign resident you must:
have a negative PCR test SARS-COV-2 (rapid and antigen tests are not acceptable), taken no more than 72 hours before boarding the final flight into Santiago. Children under 2 years old do not need to meet this requirement
have a valid Mobility Pass (‘Pase de movilidad’). 6 years old who have not been able to access vaccination program do not need to meet this requirement
complete an affidavit (Declaración Jurada) up to 48 hours before boarding. This will generate a QR-code document (sent by e-mail), which you must show to the airline in check-in and during the health screening process on arrival in Chile. Health authorities at Santiago Airport will request all travellers complete a daily ‘self-report’ – for 7 days – via an online form or ‘C19 AutoReporte’ application. The health authorities will provide the detail of this process by email following the health screening
Upon arrival, you should follow the instructions of airport authorities to undergo an antigen or PCR test SARS-COV-2 either in the airport or at an external laboratory outside the airport. If the latter, you will need to do this within 24 hours of arrival. If you undergo an antigen test, you will need to wait for the results in the airport. If the result is positive, Chileans and foreign residents must complete a 7-day quarantine in the hotel room or home address declared on the affidavit (Declaración Jurada), until you receive a negative test result. Once the Ministry of Health receives a negative test result, the Mobility Pass will be activated.
More information about what you need to do when you enter Chile can be found here, selecting ‘Chilenos y extranjeros con residencia regular en Chile (Fronteras protegidas)’.
Proof of vaccination status
Chile will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 recovery and vaccination record and proof of COVID-19 vaccination issued in the Crown Dependencies.Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
The UK’s proof of COVID-19 recovery and vaccination record will not suffice to demonstrate your vaccination status when entering Chile.
You must validate your vaccinations status with Chilean authorities to receive a Mobility Pass prior arranging any travel plans to Chile. To apply for a Mobility Pass visit ‘MeVacuno website’. Foreign visitors can create an account with an email to access the site. Without a valid Mobility Pass, the Chilean border force will not allow you to enter the country.
If you’re not fully vaccinated
If you are not fully vaccinated and you are a non-resident foreigner, you cannot enter Chile.
*Chileans and Foreign residents who are not fully vaccinated
Chileans and Foreign residents who are not fully vaccinated or could not validate their vaccinations can enter Chile, but they will need to quarantine for 7 days, regardless of a negative antigen or PCR test result.
To enter Chile if you are not a fully vaccinated resident you must:
have a negative PCR test SARS-COV-2 (rapid and antigen tests are not acceptable), taken no more than 72 hours before boarding the final flight into Santiago. Children under 2 years old do not need to meet this requirement
complete an affidavit (Declaración Jurada) up to 48 hours before boarding. This will generate a QR-code document (sent by e-mail), which you must show to the airline in check-in and during the health screening process on arrival in Chile. Health authorities at Santiago Airport will request all travellers complete a daily ‘self-report’ – for 7 days – via an online form or ‘C19 AutoReporte’ application. The health authorities will provide the detail of this process by email following the health screening.
Please note that only Chilean nationals and foreign national’s residents in Chile without a Mobility Pass can enter Chile showing proof of a negative PCR-test result taken up to 72 hours before traveling along with the other requirements but need to quarantine for 7 days before being able to go out.
If you’ve had COVID-19 in the past month
If you test positive for COVID-19 a month preceding your boarding to Chile, and if 72 hours prior to boarding, you continue to test positive, you can replace the negative PCR result by showing Chilean authorities the two positive PCR test results. One of the positive PCR tests must have been taken up to 72 hours prior to boarding, the other positive PCR test must have been taken more than 14 days prior to the date of boarding but less than one month before boarding.
Children and young people
If you travel with children under 18 years old you must review the documents you will need to show upon entry on the Chilean Ministry of Foreign Affairs website.
Children under 6 years old.
All children under 6 years old (including non-resident foreigners) are allowed to enter Chile without a mobility pass carrying:
a negative PCR test SARS-COV-2 (rapid and antigen tests are not acceptable), taken no more than 72 hours before boarding the final flight into Santiago. Children under 2 years old do not need to meet this requirement
complete an affidavit (Declaración Jurada) up to 48 hours before boarding. This will generate a QR-code document (sent by e-mail), which you must show to the airline in check-in and during the health screening process on arrival in Chile. Health authorities at Santiago Airport will request all travellers complete a daily ‘self-report’ – for 7 days – via an online form or ‘C19 AutoReporte’ application. The health authorities will provide the detail of this process by email following the health screening. Parents must fill the affidavit
If you’re transiting through Chile
Transiting through Chile on your way to another country without exiting the airport premises and without transiting to a domestic flight is permitted. Nevertheless, if you wish to exit the airport or if your transit comprises flying to another city within Chile, Chilean authorities will require you to meet all the current entry requirements.
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
Passport validity
Your passport should be valid for the proposed duration of your stay. No additional period of validity beyond this is required.
If you are a resident in Chile, your passport must be valid when entering the country.
Check with your travel provider to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Visas
If you are a British passport holder visiting Chile for less than 90 days, you do not need a visa. If you wish to stay longer, you should consult the nearest Chilean Embassy.
On arrival in Chile the immigration authorities will issue you with a ‘Tarjeta de Turismo - Tourist Card’, an A5 sized white form. You must keep this document on a safe place and present it to immigration when you leave the country. If you lose it, you should request a copy of the Tourist card on the PDI website choosing the option ‘Duplicado de Tarjeta de Turismo’, at the nearest PDI office or at the office at Santiago airport.
Once in Chile, if you decide to stay for more than 90 days, you can apply for an extension choosing the “Prorroga de Turismo’ option on the Chilean Immigration Department (Extranjeria) website. Telephone: 600 626 4222.
Dual nationality
British-Chilean dual nationals must enter and leave Chile using their Chilean passport. Chilean entry and exit requirements for dual nationals may change without notice. For further information check with the nearest Chilean Embassy.
Travelling with children
Chile has strict requirements for the entry and exit of minors under the age of 18.
Children born in Chile require a Chilean passport to leave.
Children under 18 years old, who are leaving Chile alone, with only one parent/guardian, with friends or relatives, must get authorisation to travel from a Chilean notary (“notaría”) before travelling.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETD) are accepted for entry, airside transit and exit from Chile. Your ETD must be valid for the proposed duration of your stay. Dual British/Chilean nationals must have a Chilean travel document (passport) to be allowed to depart - UK ETDs cannot substitute this requirement.
Returning to the UK
Check what you must do to return to the UK.
