At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Coronavirus
The Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advises against all but essential travel to Chile. The Chilean Government has announced restrictions on entry at its borders, beginning 18 March 2020. Restriction of entry into Chile will apply to all nationalities, with the exception of Chilean nationals and non-national residents.
The FCO strongly encourage non-resident British nationals in Chile to consider leaving the country, to avoid difficulties while commercial flights remain available.
Flights are still departing from Chile, but disruption and cancellations are highly likely. British nationals should contact their travel provider for information. You may need to make alternative plans in order to leave the country. You should urgently contact your airline to confirm any existing reservations as well as your insurance company regarding coverage. Airlines are facing very high call volumes. If you are unable to speak to a representative, airlines may allow you to check flight status and make new bookings online.
Since 0800 on 15 March, the Chilean authorities have closed all Ports to cruise liners.
The team at the British Embassy in Santiago is in contact with the Chilean Government at a senior level, with local authorities and cruise operators to try to find a resolution to the situation rapidly and provide support to people who need it.
More information (in Spanish) is available on the Ministry of Health (Ministerio de Salud) website.
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
Local authorities have confirmed some cases of Dengue fever in Easter Island. You should take steps to avoid being bitten by mosquitoes.
There are good health facilities in Santiago and other major cities, but private clinics and hospitals are expensive. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation. 
Air pollution in Santiago during winter (June-September) is a major problem. You may suffer from eye irritation and respiratory problems.
There have been a number of confirmed cases of children contracting meningitis W135.
Only one hospital offers treatment on Easter Island and its facilities are limited.  Those suffering from serious illnesses or injuries are often flown by air ambulance to mainland Chile for treatment. Make sure your insurance covers this.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 131 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
