

Forest fires
Chile is frequently affected by severe forest fires. These can be highly destructive and spread rapidly, causing National Park and road closures; this could affect your travel itinerary with short notice.
You should monitor local media for updates and follow the advice of local authorities. Avoid the areas they advise are at risk and follow evacuation procedures if instructed to by authorities.
For up to date information regarding locations and severity of forest fires, you can check the following websites: SENAPRED – Servicio Nacional de Prevención y Respuesta ante Desastres  (Chilean National Disaster Prevention and Response Service) alerts, CONAF and FIRMS (Fire Information for Resource Management System).
Earthquakes
Serious earthquakes are always a possibility in Chile. You should familiarise yourself with safety procedures in the event of an earthquake or tsunami, and take note of instructions in hotel rooms. Building regulations require new structures to take account of seismic risks. Safety measures are widely known and put into practice by national organisations and the local authorities. If you are affected by an earthquake in Chile, please follow the advice of SENAPRED – Servicio Nacional de Prevención y Respuesta ante Desastres.
Volcanoes
A chain of volcanoes erupted in the Puyehue and Los Lagos region (500 miles south of Santiago) in June 2011, and are still active. There is a continuing risk of eruptions in Chaiten in southern Chile, Llaima in the Conguillo National Park and Lascar in northern Chile.  The Copahue Volcano on the Argentina/Chile border also erupts periodically, requiring local residents to be evacuated from the area. Villarrica volcano is also active and located near Pucon and Villarrica, popular tourist destinations in the IX region of La Araucanía. If you are travelling to these areas, monitor local media reports and follow the advice of the local authority in charge of monitoring volcanoes in Chile ‘Servicio Nacional de Geología y Minería (SERNAGEOMIN).
