If you live in the UK and are currently visiting Chile, you’re strongly advised to return now by commercial means.
UK special flight
A special flight will depart from Arturo Merino Benitez Airport in Santiago, Chile, to London Stansted, UK on 11 June.
The flight cost is £800 per person.
This flight is for:
British nationals, normally resident in the UK
dependants travelling with a British national
Vulnerable non-British UK residents with Indefinite Leave to Remain, and other foreign nationals, may be accommodated if there is sufficient capacity.
Your eligibility will be checked before your tickets are issued.
How to book
CTM is working on behalf of the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) to manage special flight bookings.
If you wish to travel, book on the CTM website as soon as possible.
To book flights on the CTM website, you will need:
full passport and contact details for each traveller
your UK home address and postcode
your means of payment, such as credit or debit card details
The booking website is only available to British nationals. If you have difficulty booking online, or if you are a vulnerable non-British UK resident with Indefinite Leave to Remain, or another foreign national, then you will need to contact us. To do so, send an SMS text message containing only your full name to +44 (0)7537 416 125. A member of the CTM team will then be in touch. If you are unable to send an SMS to the CTM team directly, send an email to uk.inchile@fco.gov.uk.
Tickets will not be on sale at the airport. Do not travel to the airport without a confirmed ticket.
You may find it helpful to read our guide to eligibility and the booking process for special charter flights.
Financial support for flight
If you have exhausted all other options available to you for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government to cover the cost of the ticket.
You would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK.
Our partner CTM is also authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO and details will be available when you are asked to pay.
Travelling to the airport
If you are travelling to the airport to catch a flight from one of the areas under quarantine or curfew, presenting your passport and boarding pass will permit you to cross any checkpoints. Use a recognised taxi service or airport transfer whose driver should have the requisite permissions. Chilean authorities require the use of masks in all public spaces/public transport, including the airport.
Visas
If you plan to fly back to the UK make sure you have not overstayed on your visa – this could affect your departure. If you have any concerns about visa renewal, contact us at uk.inchile@fco.gov.uk
Your journey home
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
If you’re returning home before 8 June, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others. From 8 June there will be new rules for entering the UK.
Future travel options
The UK government is working closely with airlines, the Chilean authorities and other governments to make sure further options are available for you to return to the UK as soon as possible.
There are currently commercial options to return to the UK from Chile, via the US. LATAM Airline flights from Santiago to Miami restarted on 1 May, and are currently running 5 times a week. The large majority of scheduled LATAM flights from Santiago to Miami since 1 May have flown, but some have been cancelled at short-notice. All flights could be subject to last minute change or cancellation. You should contact the airline prior to booking.
Intermittent LATAM flights from Santiago to Sao Paulo are listed from 27 May onwards.
Iberia Airlines have flights from Santiago to Madrid listed from mid-June onwards.
However, the restart date for the Iberia flight has now been pushed back twice and may be subject to further change.
Onward connections to the UK from Miami, Sao Paulo and Madrid are available.
On 26 May LATAM filed for bankruptcy protection, but has stated that they intend to keep flying passengers. The British Embassy Santiago has been advised that the Santiago to Miami route will continue operating.
LATAM require all passengers to have filled-in a “Pasaporte Sanitario” to be allowed to board their flights. This government form, requests information on recent countries visited and coronavirus-related health. Once filled-in and submitted, you will receive a PDF of the completed form that you can store on your phone or print.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK.
For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British Embassy on Twitter and Facebook.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British Embassy at UK.inChile@fco.gov.uk or on +56223704100.
The Embassy cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone. This page will be updated when departure options become available. To get the latest information, sign up for travel advice email alerts.
Further information
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK.
If you cannot leave Chile
If you cannot leave Chile at this time, see advice on staying in Chile during coronavirus.
