

Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Chile
Terrorist attacks in Chile cannot be ruled out. Attacks, although unlikely, could be indiscriminate, including in places visited by foreigners. 
There are occasional acts of domestic terrorism by anarchist groups, mostly in Santiago, including the use of small explosive devices. Groups mainly target banks (ATMs) and public transport. Keep bags with you at all times, and report any suspicious behaviour or unattended packages to local authorities. Since early April 2020, there has been an increase in attacks against security forces in the Araucanía region, particularly around Ruta 5. You should exercise caution and follow the instructions of local authorities.
Political situation
There is a risk of violent protest in Santiago and other Chilean cities, particularly on Friday afternoons and evenings.
Even peaceful protests can become violent. The largest protests usually take place in central Santiago. Police can use tear gas and water cannons against protesters. 
Avoid all demonstrations. Under Chilean law, you can be deported if you’re involved in or promote violent acts that could disturb social order or the system of government.
Nationwide protests often take place on significant dates, such as:
11 September (anniversary of the military coup)
29 March (Day of the Young Combatant)
1 May (Workers’ Day)
Crime
Pickpocketing, mugging and thefts from vehicles are very common throughout Chile, including inside airports.
Taxi scams
Many foreign visitors have been scammed for large amounts of money by unlicensed taxi drivers, including in airport taxis.
Only book taxis at the desk inside the airport after collecting your luggage and before you enter the arrivals hall – see how to recognise official taxis (in Spanish). You should be able to book and pay in advance at these desks inside the airport. If you cannot pay beforehand, request an approximate amount for the journey at the taxi desk.   
Be wary of people impersonating authorised taxi drivers. There are criminals who dress up as authorised taxi drivers, including people inside the airport arrival hall wearing official-looking lanyards and jackets.
At Santiago airport, unofficial taxi drivers will try to take you to the car park to board a private vehicle. Official taxis should only be taken in the controlled platform located on the ground floor of both T1 and T2.
You should also insist on seeing the amount you are charged before you present your card for payment at the end of the ride.
Carefully review the amount being charged on portable credit card machines before paying, including the number of zeroes shown on the screen.  
If the taxi takes you to an ATM to withdraw cash for payment, do not let the driver near the ATM while you use it.
Read information about the official transportation options at Santiago airport:
taxis
buses
transfers
car rental (read the section ‘Vehicle crime’ below if you are planning on renting a car)
There are two companies operating in both terminals at the airport. Taxi Oficial Basico operates with black and yellow vehicles, and Taxi Oficial operates with blue vehicles.
Book taxis in advance rather than hailing one from the street, especially late at night. Keep in groups and avoid walking alone late at night.
Protecting your belongings
Keep your valuables and passport somewhere secure, such as in a hotel safe. Bags hanging on chairs or mobile phones on tables can be targeted by thieves, who may use distraction techniques or work in pairs. Take particular care:
around tourist sites, and areas popular with tourists
in cafes and restaurants
at transport hubs, including at the airport, bus stations and ports
in hotel lobbies during arrival and departure
in service (petrol) stations and service station restaurants
When travelling by bus or coach, take care of your belongings when getting on and off. Keep your valuables with you, do not put them in storage compartments, especially for long journeys between regions. Be extremely wary of distractions at bus stations, where there are frequent thefts.  
Violent theft (muggings)
Muggings have happened in tourist areas in Santiago and Valparaiso, increasingly with weapons such as pistols and knives. Muggings can take place during the day and in plain sight of others. Be aware of your surroundings, particularly in tourist areas or near official buildings. Muggers will target:
tourists
people carrying large amounts of money – leaving ATMs or currency exchanges, for example
your passport (carrying a photocopy is enough)
valuable watches or jewellery
your mobile phone
Do not resist any attempted mugging.
Vehicle crime
There has been an increase in criminals:
targeting rental cars in major cities – they sometimes puncture the car’s tyres, often while at traffic lights, distract the occupants when they notice the tyres and steal valuables
following people from the airport on arrival and robbing them, sometimes at gunpoint
targeting vehicles entering or leaving private residences while the gates are opening or closing
carrying out carjackings in Santiago, especially in affluent areas – some armed carjackers target high-end vehicles on highways
intercepting car locking systems when drivers remotely activate the lock
targeting people parked at viewpoints and stealing belongings from their cars
Be aware of your surroundings in and around the airport, when driving and on arrival at your destination. Keep vehicle doors locked and windows closed. Wait for gates to fully close before leaving your vehicle.
If you’re robbed, hand over your cash and valuables without resistance. If you’re carjacked, local authorities say it is best to raise your hands and get out of the vehicle to avoid violence.
Drink spiking
People have been given ‘spiked’ drinks in nightclubs and bars, particularly in the Suecia and Bellavista areas of Santiago. These incidents leave victims open to theft or assault. Keep your drinks in sight and be wary of people offering to buy drinks for you.
Laws and cultural differences
Personal ID
Always carry a printed copy of the photo page of your passport with you. 
Alcohol laws and bans
It’s illegal to drink alcohol in public places including streets, roads, squares and promenades.
Illegal drugs and prison sentences
Using or possessing drugs is illegal and can lead to prison sentences.
LGBT+ travellers
Same-sex relationships are legal in Chile and are increasingly widely accepted socially, although much of Chilean society is conservative.
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Outdoor activities and adventure tourism
Fires in national parks
Open fires are illegal in national parks in Chile, outside permitted camping areas. Local authorities may revoke your tourist permit if you’re caught starting a fire in a Chilean national park. You may be asked to leave the country voluntarily within 72 hours or face deportation. If your open fire starts a larger forest fire, you may also face criminal penalties and fines.
Hiking and mountaineering
If you’re planning to go exploring or mountaineering, tell the local authorities before you set off. For further information on mountaineering, contact the Federación de Andinismo de Chile. For any other type of exploring, contact the Chilean Embassy in London to see if you need a permit. The rescue services in Chile are good, but you may have to pay if they help you.
Transport risks
Road travel
If you are planning to drive a hire car or a UK vehicle, see information on driving abroad.
You can use a UK photocard driving licence to drive in Chile for 3 months. If you still have a paper driving licence, you may need to update it to a photocard licence or get the correct version of the international driving permit (IDP) as well.
You must have your passport and proof of your tourist status, such as your tourist card (‘tarjeta de turismo’) or the entry stamp in your passport, with you in the vehicle.
See information about driving licences in Chile (in Spanish).
If you hire a car, get appropriate insurance. Windscreen repair can be expensive, so consider including windscreen damage cover.
You cannot get car insurance if you’re driving on Rapa Nui (Easter Island). If you have an accident or do any damage to your vehicle there, you’ll have to pay for the repairs yourself.
Driving conditions
Main roads in Chile are surfaced, but you may need a 4-wheel drive vehicle in the countryside. Be prepared for a range of driving conditions, from snow and ice to hot sandy deserts. Between June and September, winter weather sometimes temporarily closes the Chile-Argentina border crossing high in the Andes, including the main Los Libertadores crossing between Santiago and Mendoza.
Toll roads are increasingly common.
Landmines
Landmine accidents mainly affect livestock and local people crossing borders at unauthorised points. Most minefields are near the borders with Peru and Bolivia in the extreme north of Chile (regions XV, I and II) and Argentina in the south (region XII). Although most minefields are clearly marked, some signs and fences are old and damaged and may be hard to spot. In some cases, minefields are laid right up to the edge of highways. Check with local authorities before travelling to more rural areas, stick to clearly marked roads and observe all warning signs.
Extreme weather and natural disasters
See extreme weather and natural hazards for information about how to prepare, and how to react if there is a warning.
Heavy rain and flooding 
When necessary, the Chilean National Service for Disaster Prevention and Response (SENAPRED) issues warnings for heavy rain which may impact travel plans. Road conditions may be hazardous, with increased risk of delays and accidents. If you travel, plan your journey carefully and allow extra time. Follow local news, weather updates and the SENAPRED website (in Spanish) for the latest information.
Forest fires
Chile often has severe forest fires which can be very destructive and spread rapidly. These fires have caused multiple deaths, as well as sometimes causing the closure of national parks and roads.
If you find yourself in or near the affected areas of any fires: 
follow the advice of local authorities, including evacuation orders
monitor local media to stay informed of the rapidly evolving situation
notify friends and family of your safety
review your personal security plans
make evacuation plans that do not rely on British government assistance
have travel documents up to date and easily accessible
carry identification at all times, such as your passport or a copy of it
Earthquakes
Major earthquakes are a risk in Chile. The US Federal Emergency Management Agency website has advice about what to do before, during and after an earthquake. Take note of instructions in hotel rooms.
Building regulations require new structures to take account of earthquake risks. Safety measures are widely known and put into practice by national organisations and the local authorities.
Volcanic eruptions
A chain of volcanoes is active in the Puyehue and Los Lagos region (500 miles south of Santiago). There is a continuing risk of eruptions in Chaiten in southern Chile, Llaima in the Conguillo National Park and Lascar in northern Chile. Copahue, a volcano on the Argentina-Chile border, erupts periodically, causing local residents to be evacuated. Villarrica, a volcano near the popular tourist destinations of Pucon and Villarrica in the IX region of La Araucanía, is also active. 
If you’re travelling to these areas, monitor local media reports and follow local authority volcano monitoring advice (in Spanish).
