This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Chile as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Chile to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Chile
For information on entering Chile, see Entry Requirements.
Chilean President Sebastian Piñera announced a 90-day ‘National State of Catastrophe’ on Wednesday 18 March 2020. On 18 June this was renewed for a further 90 days. A nationwide curfew (now running between 11pm to 5am) has been in place since 22 March.
Quarantine and sanitary cordons
Quarantine orders and sanitary cordons are in place in Santiago and in other parts of the country.
Chile is deploying a flexible approach to bringing municipal areas (called comunas) in and out of quarantine/sanitary cordons. New measures can be announced by the government at any time and come into force shortly after, although changes are typically announced every Wednesday and are applied from Fridays onwards. On 28 July, as part of the Chilean government’s step-by-step, five stage plan for the parts of Chile under quarantine orders to emerge in a phased manner from lockdown, comunas across Chile began to move from quarantine (Stage 1) into the ‘transition phase’ (Stage 2).
The following comunas are currently in Stage 2:
Santiago Metropolitan Region: Lo Barnechea, Las Condes, Vitacura, La Reina, Providencia, Ñuñoa, Santiago Centro, Estación Central, Peñalolén, San José de Maipo, Padre Hurtado, Peñaflor, Maria Pinto, Curacaví, Til Til, Lampa, Colina, and Melipilla.
Antofagasta region: Tocopilla.
O’Higgins region: Rancagua, Machalí and Graneros.
Valparaíso region: Los Andes, San Antonio and San Felipe.
Bío Bío region: Concepción, Hualpen and Talcahuano.
Maule region: Curicó.
Under this arrangement, in Stage 2, quarantine measures in these comunas are lifted between 5am and 11pm, Monday to Friday with those residing in the areas no longer having to apply for permission to leave their residence or to move within their communa. Social gatherings of no more than 10 people are allowed. However, quarantine measures remain in place at weekends and bank holidays, with the nationwide curfew still enforced seven days a week, as well as obligatory quarantine for those over 75 and a prohibition on movement to a secondary home.
All other parts of the metropolitan region of Santiago remain under Stage 1 quarantine. Full Stage 1 quarantine is also in place in:
Arica y Parinacota region: Arica
Tarapacá region: Iquique, Alto Hospicio, and Pozo Almonte;
Valparaíso region: Calera, La Cruz, Quillota, Valparaíso and Viña del Mar;
Antofagasta region: Mejillones Antofagasta, and Calama
Atacama region: Copiapó and Tierra Amarilla;
Coquimbo region: Coquimbo, La Serena and Ovalle;
O’Higgins region: San Vicente de Tagua Tagua and Rengo;
Bío Bío region: Penco and Tome
Los Lagos region: Puerto Montt
Magallanes region: Punta Arenas
Sanitary cordons are in place in San Antonio (Valparaíso), Pirque, Alto Biobío, Los Rios, between Penco and Concepción, between San Pedro de La Paz and Coronel, Talcahuano, Chiloé, Aysén, Punta Varas, Punta Arenas and Puerto Williams.
In those areas in quarantine, people are allowed to leave their residences only under certain circumstances, including for medical reasons, basic services, and public services. If you need to leave your residence for food supplies or medical reasons, you must get a permit from the Comisaria Virtual.
Foreigners may use their passport number to access the system. The pages are only in Spanish. It is not possible to leave or enter a sanitary cordon without a “salvoconducto” (police authorization), also obtained via the Comisaria Virtual.
Checkpoints for health inspections are in force at various points around Santiago and elsewhere. In addition to checking the health of persons passing through, these checkpoints will be used to confirm that specific individuals who have been ordered to quarantine by medical authorities are not violating their quarantine. You will need to get a “Health Passport” prior to travel and present it at any checkpoint.
Health
More information (in Spanish) is available on the Ministry of Health (Ministerio de Salud) website.
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Chile.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Chile, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
