The FCDO advises against all but essential travel to:
the whole of Chile based on the current assessment of COVID-19 risks.
As of 15 January, direct flights from Chile to the UK are prohibited. Visitors who have been in or transited through Chile in the previous 10 days cannot enter UK. British and Irish nationals, and third country nationals with residence rights in the UK arriving in England from Chile will be required to quarantine in a hotel. Different requirements apply for arrivals into Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland.
From 1 January onwards people with residence rights include: holders of Indefinite Leave to Remain; holders of existing leave to enter or remain (i.e those with biometric Residence permits) or an entry clearance/visa that grants such leave e.g. students, workers, etc (excluding visit visas); holders of EU Settlement Scheme (“EUSS”) leave; those who have rights of entry under the Withdrawal Agreements (including returning residents with a right of residence under the EEA Regulations and EEA frontier workers); family members of EEA nationals with rights under the Withdrawal Agreement.
Travel to Chile is subject to entry restrictions
Chilean authorities have extended the border closure for 30 days more. See Coronavirus and Entry requirements sections.
From 5 April at 5am, all non-resident foreign nationals will not be permitted to enter Chile for the whole of April. Additionally, all borders (including Santiago airport will close for 30 days. See Coronavirus and Entry requirements sections.
From 5 April at 5am, travellers who meet the entry requirements must complete a mandatory 10-day quarantine on arrival in Chile. This cannot be avoided under any circumstances, such as with a proof of C19 vaccine. You will not be able to leave quarantine early with a negative PCR. See Coronavirus and Entry requirements sections
From 11 March 2021, all passengers arriving from Brazil, or who have visited Brazil during the last 14 days, will be transferred to a ‘transitory’ hotel, will have to take a PCR test and must remain there for at least 72 hours, even if the PCR test result is negative. See Coronavirus and Entry requirements sections for further information.
All non-resident foreign nationals - that have been in the United Kingdom during the last 14 days – are not currently permitted to enter Chile. Direct UK-Chile flights have been suspended until further notice. See Coronavirus
From 7 January 2021, all travellers (including Chileans, resident and non-resident foreign nationals) require a negative PCR test (rapid PCR tests will not be accepted) taken within 72-hours of boarding the flight to enter Chile. The mandatory 10-day quarantine will remain in place. See Entry requirements
You should be aware that Chilean health authorities at Santiago Airport are selecting passengers on arrival for random PCR testing, even when passengers have complied with the requirement to hold a negative PCR test on arrival
Travellers arriving at Santiago Airport should be aware that local authorities have put restrictions in place for travelling from Santiago to other regions. See Coronavirus
Travellers arriving in Santiago should be aware that local authorities are frequently moving municipalities (comunas) back and forward through the quarantine Stage Plan (Paso a Paso). Additionally, there is a nationwide curfew in place between 10pm to 5am every day. From 5 April, a nationwide curfew will be in place between 9pm and 5am, seven days a week. See Coronavirus
Travellers should be aware that from 27 March at 5am, the Whole Metropolitan Region, including Santiago centre and Santiago Airport area, will move to Stage 1 (Quarantine). See Coronavirus
See Entry requirements for more information before you plan to travel.
Preparing for your return journey to the UK
provide your journey and contact details before you travel
check if you need to self-isolate on your return
If your return journey to the UK transits another country, you should check whether it is subject to a travel ban or any other additional requirements. If so, contact your travel provider.
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
If you’re planning travel to Chile, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO) guidance on foreign travel insurance.
For information about COVID-19 vaccines, see the Coronavirus page.
Since 25 March, the government of Chile has put in place quarantines within certain communes in Santiago and around the country more generally. See Coronavirus.
If you have enquiries about your current UK visa, please see the guidance for UK visa holders
If you need an Emergency Travel Document, check how to apply
October and November 2019 saw large-scale protests and violence across all of Chile with a particular focus in Santiago. There remains a possibility of protest associated with the country’s constitutional reform process. Other cities, including Concepción, Viña del Mar, Valparaíso, and Osorno have also seen sporadic incidents over the past few months. Some protests have seen isolated incidents of the use of small arms by members of the public. If protests take place, you should follow the instructions and advice of the local authorities, remain vigilant, monitor local media for updates and avoid protests and demonstrations. Under Chilean law, foreign nationals visiting or living in Chile could be deported for involvement in protests and demonstrations. See Local laws and customs
Opportunistic street crime can be a problem in towns and cities, and in areas popular with tourists including airports, bus stations and ports. Take care of your personal belongings at all times and be aware of your surroundings. Carry a photocopy of your passport and keep the original document in a safe place. See Crime.
Terrorist attacks in Chile can’t be ruled out. See Terrorism
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.
If you need to contact the emergency services, call 131 for an ambulance, 132 for the fire brigade and 133 for police.
The Overseas Business Risk service offers information and advice for British companies operating overseas on how to manage political, economic, and business security-related risks.
