Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Croatia on the TravelHealthPro website.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
If you test positive for COVID-19 whilst you are in Croatia you should follow advice from the local authorities and get in touch with the local epidemiologist. Call 113 (from a Croatian number) for general advice about COVID-19. Arrangements for self-isolation and the associated costs may vary, but you should be prepared to make your own arrangements for self-isolation and bear any related costs. If you test positive for COVID-19, do not attempt to check in for your flight, as you may be subject to a fine from the Croatian Police.
International travel
Croatia has put measures in place to limit the spread of COVID-19. You should follow the advice of the local authorities in the most appropriate way to protect yourself and others, including any measures brought in to control the virus. These measures may change at short notice either at national or at local level. You should check local guidance for further information and details about restrictions in Croatia.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Croatia. If entering Croatia for the purpose of overland transit you should familiarise yourself with the local travel requirements and ensure you depart the country within 12 hours. Failure to comply with this requirement may result in a fine.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements. Information on testing facilities throughout Croatia can be found on the government website. You should check that the test result can be provided in the correct format and language.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Croatia
There are no restrictions on regional travel within Croatia.
Face masks
It is mandatory for passengers to wear masks on public transport, taxis and in shops and other commercial premises.
Public places and services
There have been reports of a number of coronavirus cases associated with visits to bars and other busy venues. You should exercise caution and follow social distancing rules when attending busy venues.
From 16 November, anyone entering public services, local and regional municipalities, state-owned companies and institutions will be required to show either a digital COVID-19 certificate or appropriate proof of vaccination, proof of recovery or a negative test. You may also be asked to show identification along with your COVID-19 pass.
Croatia will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 recovery and vaccination record. If you are travelling with a printed PDF proof of vaccination status, it must date from 1 November to ensure that the certificate can be scanned successfully, if domestic certification is required. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
Health
If you feel that you have symptoms of coronavirus, you should contact the Croatian government’s COVID19 hotline on telephone number 113. Alternatively, you should contact the nearest specialist clinic – the contact details according to county, can be found here
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Croatia.
From 4 October, anyone entering a hospital or medical institution will be required to show either a digital COVID-19 certificate or appropriate proof of vaccination, proof of recovery or a negative test. This does not apply in the case of urgent or emergency treatment, or if seeking medical treatment for suspected or confirmed COVID-19 cases.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Croatia
Wherever possible British nationals should aim to be vaccinated in the country where they live. We will update this page when the Government of Croatia announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Croatian national vaccination programme started in December 2020 and is using the AstraZeneca, Janssen (Johnson and Johnson), Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna vaccines. British nationals resident in Croatia are eligible for vaccination. The Croatian authorities have issued guidance regarding how to get a COVID-19 vaccine in Croatia (this is only available in Croatian). The guidance includes information on how you can register your interest for a vaccine via your General Practitioner if you live in Croatia. You can register your interest for a vaccine through a dedicated vaccination website.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in the Croatia, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
If you receive your COVID-19 vaccination in Croatia, you can get an EU Digital COVID Certificate from the national authorities. The Certificate proves that you have been vaccinated against COVID-19, received a negative test result, or recovered from COVID-19. It will help facilitate your travel within the EU and, in some countries, you can use it to demonstrate your COVID-19 status to businesses and other organisations. For further information visit the European Commission’s EU Digital COVID Certificate page.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
The Croatian Government Office for Public Health is publishing updates and advice (in Croatian, with some information in English).
