This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Croatia set and enforce entry rules. For further information contact their embassy, high commission or consulate. You may also check with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and travel documents meet their requirements.
Entry rules in response to coronavirus
Entry to Croatia
UK nationals travelling to Croatia are subject to strict epidemiological measures and must carry evidence of health status to present on arrival to Croatia (a negative COVID-19 antigen not older than 48 hours or PCR test result not older than 72 hours, or proof of a vaccination, or a doctor’s certificate of recovery following a positive test result between 11 and 180 days prior). (See ‘Demonstrating your COVID-19 vaccination status’).
Children under 12 and accompanied by a parent/guardian are exempt from the requirement to present a negative test result, and to self-isolate, if the parent or guardian has a negative PCR or Rapid Antigen test result, an EU digital COVID Certificate, an official certificate of vaccination or a certificate of recovery as set out above for UK Nationals entry to Croatia.
Alternatively a PCR test or rapid antigen test can be taken after arrival in Croatia but you will be obliged to self-isolate until the results of a negative test are received. Upon entry to Croatia, you will be handed instructions regarding the conditions for self isolation, which will include details about ending your self-isolation through a negative test. See more information about testing centres in Croatia. In the case of a rapid antigen test, if you stay in Croatia for longer than 10 days, a rapid antigen test must be repeated within 10 days from the date of issuing the first test.
If you travel to another country after receiving a negative PCR (72 hours validity) test or rapid antigen test (48 hours validity) in Croatia and return back to Croatia within less than 48 or 72 hours (for PCR) from the date of testing, you will not be required to provide a new test from the country you travelled to.
From 13 January 2021, there are additional restrictions if you are travelling to Croatia from South Africa, Brazil, India or Zanzibar. In addition to holding a negative PCR test result taken within 48 hours prior to arrival, permitted travellers must also undergo a mandatory 14 day self-isolation period on arrival to Croatia. The isolation period can be reduced to 7 days if a subsequent PCR test confirms a negative result.
Travel is permitted within defined purposes, including, but not limited to, residence, business and tourism. In addition to evidence of your negative COVID-19 status, those travelling under the tourism exemption are required to hold a valid accommodation booking or proof of property ownership in Croatia.
Individual Croatian Counties may introduce more restricted COVID-19 measures for limited periods of time. Please follow the local authorities’ advice and adhere to the measures in place.
Details of eligibility to travel, possible exemptions, and instructions for arrivals including approved rapid antigen tests are available from the Croatian Ministry of Interior. PCR tests are available at most Croatian airports – travellers should check this with the specific airports they are travelling to. Those seeking a test on arrival will need to contact a clinic directly and may temporarily leave their accommodation to attend a test appointment. See more information about testing centres in Croatia. Tests cost approximately 700 Croatian Kuna and results are generally available within 48 hours.
If you own property in Croatia, you will be allowed to enter Croatia if you have a title deed (or purchase contract, other written proof of ownership, vessels anchored in Croatia) and an EU Digital COVID Certificate, a negative PCR test result not older than 72 hours (from sampling to arrival at the border crossing) or a rapid antigen test result for COVID-19 not older than 48 hours (from sampling to arrival at the border crossing point); or if you perform PCR or rapid antigen testing immediately upon arrival in Croatia and stay in self-isolation until receiving a negative test result
Demonstrating your COVID-19 vaccination status
Croatia will accept either certificate of completion of a two dose vaccine course (Pfizer, Moderna, AstraZeneca, Gamaleya, Sinopharm) or a certificate of receipt of a one dose vaccine (Janssen, Johnson & Johnson). In both cases immunization must have been completed 14 days prior to arrival. Alternatively Croatia will accept a doctor’s certificate of recovery within the previous 6 months, alongside proof of a first dose of Pfizer, Moderna, AstraZeneca, Gamaleya, Sinopharm if administered less than 180 days of arrival.
If you live in England, Croatia will accept the NHS COVID Pass or your NHS letter to demonstrate your COVID-19 vaccination status. If you live in Scotland or Wales, Croatia will accept your respective NHS letter to demonstrate your COVID-19 vaccination status. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
Quarantine requirements
UK nationals travelling to Croatia are subject to strict epidemiological measures and must carry evidence of their negative COVID-19 health status, to present on arrival to Croatia (a negative COVID-19 antigen test not older than 48 hours or a PCR test result not older than 72 hours, proof of full immunisation, or a certificate of recovery following a positive test result between 11 and 180 days prior). Without this evidence, you will be required to self-isolate until a negative test result has been obtained locally. Travellers are advised to check the latest situation with the Croatian authorities before starting a journey, as health requirements may change. It is mandatory for passengers to wear masks on public transport and taxis and in shops and other commercial premises.
All UK nationals in transit through Croatia (including transport industry workers) must self-isolate if they do not leave Croatia within 12 hours of entry and follow quarantine measures.
Screening on arrival
The Croatian government has introduced a new online entry form to expedite the entry of foreign visitors. You are advised to carry a copy of your accommodation booking or proof of ownership of holiday homes / boats when arriving in Croatia. If you are travelling to Croatia for business, you are advised to carry evidence of a business invitation or meetings.
Restrictions on travel may change at any time. You should check the latest regulations before travelling on the Croatian government website. British citizens are permitted to leave Croatia and it remains possible to return to the UK by air and road.
Regular entry requirements
Visas
The rules for travelling or working in European countries changed from 1 January 2021:
you can travel to Croatia for up to 90 days in any 180-day period without a visa. This applies if you travel as a tourist, to visit for family or friends, to attend business meetings, cultural or sports events, or for short-term studies or training
visits to other EU or Schengen countries do not count towards your 90-day limit in Croatia as it is not in the Schengen area. Visits to Croatia do not count towards your 90-day visa-free limit in the Schengen area
to stay longer, to work or study, for business travel or for other reasons, you will need to meet the Croatian government’s entry requirements. Check with the Croatian Embassy in London as to what type of visa and/or work permit you may need
if you stay in Croatia with a residence permit or long-stay visa, this does not count towards your 90-day visa-free limit
Any time you spent in Croatia before 1 January 2021 does not count towards the 90-day visa-free limit.
When queuing at the Croatian border control, you should use different lanes to those specifically designated for EU, EEA and Swiss citizens. Your passport may be stamped on entry and exit.
You may also need to:
show a return or onward ticket
Show proof of accommodation
show you have enough money for your stay
There are separate requirements for those who are resident in Croatia. If you are resident, you should carry proof of residence in addition to a valid passport at all times whilst in Croatia and when you travel. For further information on these requirements, see our Living in Croatia guide.
Passport validity
Check your passport is valid for travel before you book your trip, and renew your passport if you do not have enough time left on it.
You must have at least 6 months left on an adult or child passport to travel to most countries in Europe (not including Ireland).
If you renewed your current passport before the previous one expired, extra months may have been added to its expiry date. Any extra months on your passport over 10 years may not count towards the 6 months needed.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK ETDs are accepted for entry, transit and exit from Croatia and are a valid ID document in Croatia.
