Storms
All parts of Croatia can experience extreme storms, including strong winds and rain, lightning, and powerful and large hailstorms.  Such storms can occur suddenly during summer, particularly at times of extreme heat across Europe.  Seek shelter and follow local advice until the storm passes. Check the current weather forecast and warnings at MeteoAlarm.
Earthquakes
Small tremors are recorded several times a month throughout the year. Most pass without consequences. To learn more about what to do before, during and after an earthquake, visit the website of the US Federal Emergency Management Agency.
Earthquakes in Croatia can be strong and can cause damage to infrastructure and loss of life. In March 2020, a magnitude 5.3 earthquake hit Zagreb and in December 2020 a magnitude 6.4 earthquake hit the region of Petrinja near Sisak, in central Croatia. Both caused extensive damage to buildings and infrastructure and there were eight confirmed deaths in total. Common sense should be used around damaged buildings, which may not always be signposted, to avoid any falling brickwork.
Fires
Fires are common during Croatia’s hot and dry summers. Take care when visiting or driving through woodland and forest areas. If you see a fire, call the emergency services on 112. If affected, follow the advice of the local authorities.
In summer months, there is a ban on outdoor fires, and barbecues outside of designated areas. Properly extinguish cigarette ends, do not light barbecues outside of designated areas and do not leave any rubbish, particularly empty bottles behind, as these are known to start fires. Intentionally causing a fire is considered a criminal offence in Croatia and can result in a prison sentence. There can be large fines for unintentionally causing a fire.
Floods
Flash floods can occur with very little warning and can lead to dangerous water flows and disruption to transport and other networks. You should keep a close eye on weather forecasts and follow the advice of local authorities.
Monitor media reports and follow the advice of the local authorities if a forest fire, earthquake, floods or other natural disaster occurs in your area.
