Coronavirus guidance is being updated.
Read the Prime Minister’s statement for the latest information.

There remain commercial options to return to the UK from Croatia. If you live in the UK and are currently visiting Croatia you are strongly advised to return now by commercial means. Don’t run the risk of getting stranded.
UK special charter flights will only operate for priority countries where commercial flights are not possible. You should not assume that these flights will become available in countries where commercial routes are operating. Please do not contact the FCO’s contracted travel management company if no flight is advertised here.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. Where departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK.
For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Flights
International airports in Croatia are in the process of reopening, albeit with restricted schedules. Lufthansa and Croatia Airlines are currently operating a daily codeshare service from Zagreb and Split to London via Frankfurt Airport. Croatia Airlines have also begun flights to a small number of other European destinations.
Internal flights between Zagreb and Split, and Zagreb and Dubrovnik, resumed on 11 May as part of a relaxation of lockdown measures. Some other regional airports remain closed. Further information about departures can be found on the airport websites for Zagreb, Split and Dubrovnik.
Travelling to Zagreb International Airport
Restrictions on travel between cities and counties within Croatia were lifted on 11 May. You are nevertheless advised to carry a copy of your flight reservation with you and be prepared to share it with authorities along your route.
Road
It remains possible to drive to the UK by road. If you wish to return by road, you should ensure that you have checked the travel advice for all of the countries along your chosen route as transit restrictions and documentary requirements may vary. In addition, we recommend that you carry proof of your residential UK address as well as a copy of your ferry or Eurotunnel reservation with you.
If you cannot leave Croatia at this time, see advice on staying in Croatia during coronavirus.
Your journey home: re-entering the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK. You:
need to provide your journey and contact details up to 48 hours before you’re due to arrive in the UK
are not allowed to leave the place you’re staying for the first 14 days you’re in the UK except in very limited situations (known as ‘self-isolating’)
See also the list of people who are exempt from the border rules.
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) also provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
Help and support
Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British Embassy on Twitter and Facebook.
If you cannot leave Croatia
If you cannot leave Croatia at this time, see advice on staying in Croatia during coronavirus.
See more information and advice about staying where you are if you cannot return to the UK.
