

Terrorism 
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad. 
Terrorism in Croatia 
Terrorist attacks in Croatia cannot be ruled out.
Attacks could be indiscriminate, including in places visited by foreigners. 
Crime 
Crime levels are low and violent crime is rare. 
Protecting yourself and your belongings 
Tourists have been overcharged at certain ‘gentlemen’s clubs’, sometimes by thousands of euros, and threatened with violence if they refuse to pay. 
Pickpockets operate in tourist areas. Avoid carrying large sums of cash, do not leave valuables unattended and use hotel safes if possible. 
Attacks and sexual assaults in taxis
There have been reports of sexual assaults in taxis in Croatia. To reduce risk and help prevent potential assaults:
take a photo of the inside, where the number of the taxi is visible, and send it to a friend or someone else
share your ride status on the taxi app
make a call while in the taxi telling someone which taxi it is and where you are going
Laws and cultural differences 
Personal ID 
Always carry your passport or, if you’re a resident, your Croatian ID card. Keep a copy of your passport’s photo page in a safe place.
Antisocial behaviour 
In some Croatian town centres, including tourist destinations like Split and Dubrovnik, you can get on-the-spot fines for behaviour seen as inappropriate, including: 
drinking alcohol or using drugs in public spaces
sleeping in public spaces
urinating or vomiting in public spaces
walking through towns shirtless or in swimwear
wearing clothing that promotes drug use
climbing on monuments
You can also be fined up to 4,000 euros for public order disturbances, including: 
fighting
verbal abuse such as shouting or arguing
drunken behaviour
belittling or insulting police officers or other public officials
Illegal drugs and prison sentences 
Drug offences are punished with fines and prison sentences. 
Unexploded mines  
If you travel outside the tourist resorts, beware of unexploded mines in previously war-affected areas, including: 
Eastern Slavonia
Brod-Posavina County
Karlovac County
areas around Zadar County
more remote areas of the Plitvice Lakes National Park
For more information about mine-affected areas, visit the Civil Protection website (in Croatian) or contact the Civil Protection offices. 
If you’re travelling in these areas, do not walk on uncultivated land or step off the marked paths. If in doubt, get local advice. 
Outdoor activities and adventure tourism
Hiking and mountaineering 
If you’re hiking in the mountains, get expert advice from local guides, however tame the mountain might seem. Weather in the Croatian mountains can change quickly, even in summer. Temperatures can get very low overnight.
There is a risk of getting lost in the mountains when out hiking alone and using unmarked paths. Read the Croatian Mountain Rescue tips on mountaineering, follow their X at Hrvatska GSS and see their maps. If you get into trouble, call the emergency number 112 for help from the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service. 
Transport risks 
Road travel 
If you’re planning to drive in Croatia, see information on driving abroad and check the rules of the road in RAC’s Croatia guide. The guide lists driving regulations and other legal requirements you need to be aware of, such as:
having your headlights on and dipped when driving a car from 1 November until 31 March, even during daytime
driving with dipped headlights year-round on scooters and motorcycles
using winter tyres between 15 November and 15 April
carrying a fluorescent vest in the car, not in the boot – you must wear the vest while attending to a breakdown
You can use a UK photocard driving licence to drive in Croatia for up to one year. If you still have a paper driving licence, you may need to update it to a photocard licence or get the correct version of the international driving permit (IDP) as well.
The Croatian Automobile Association lists current traffic hazards. 
Drink-driving is a serious offence in Croatia. If you’re found with more than 0.05% of alcohol in your blood (in England it’s 0.08%) you will get a fine, and you may lose your licence and get a prison sentence. The alcohol limit is zero for drivers under the age of 24.
Sea travel 
Do not drink alcohol if you’re in charge of a yacht or boat. There are heavy penalties for being caught drunk in charge of a boat and a zero-tolerance approach. 
You must sail by the most direct route to a port of entry when entering Croatian territorial waters.
Authorities can arrest you for entering a non-designated entry port without telling them. If you cannot use the correct entry port, contact the local harbour master or the police before entering Croatia.  
If you are in Croatia, including on a boat, your presence in Croatia must be registered with the police. If you’re travelling with a tour operator, they should do this for you. Otherwise, you must fill in and print form obrazac 16a (PDF) and hand it in at a police station.    
All captains must have an International Certificate of Competence. 
Extreme weather and natural disasters 
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards. 
Wildfires
Wildfires are common during Croatia’s hot and dry summers. Take care when visiting or driving through woodland and forest areas. If you see a fire, call the emergency services on 112. If you’re affected, follow the advice of local authorities. 
From 1 June to 31 October it is illegal to set outdoor fires and barbecues except in designated areas. Intentionally causing a fire is illegal in Croatia and you could be fined 2,000 to 20,000 euros, or even given a prison sentence. 
You could also be fined for unintentionally causing a fire. Properly extinguish cigarette ends and do not leave any rubbish behind, particularly empty bottles, as these are known to start fires. Fines in these cases have ranged from 260 to 1,200 euros. 
Earthquakes 
Earthquakes in Croatia can be strong and cause deaths and damage to infrastructure. In recent years, there have been earthquakes in Zagreb and in Petrinja, near Sisak in central Croatia. Both caused extensive damage to buildings and infrastructure and loss of life. Heavily damaged buildings, which are not always signposted, may be unstable. 
Small tremors also happen several times a month throughout the year. Most pass without consequence. The US Federal Emergency Management Agency website has advice about what to do before, during and after an earthquake. 
Floods  
Flash floods can happen with very little warning and lead to dangerous water flows and disruption to transport and other networks. There is the highest risk of flooding in central Croatia, between Karlovac and Slavonski Brod. Monitor Croatian Meteorological and Hydrological Service forecasts and follow the advice of local authorities.
