This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Croatia as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Croatia to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Croatia
For information on entering Croatia, see Entry Requirements
There are local travel restrictions in place in Croatia.
Lockdown restrictions are slowly in the process of being lifted. You should follow the latest instructions from the local authorities here.
Visas
On 27 March Croatian immigration authorities announced that foreign travellers to Croatia who are unable to leave due to COVID-19 restrictions will not face sanctions for overstaying the conditions of their stay. Those who are unable to leave on time are advised to contact their nearest police station to register their continued stay and to prevent complications upon departure.
Health
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Croatia.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Croatia, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
The Croatian Government Office for Public Health is publishing updates and advice (in Croatian, with some information in English).
Keep up to date with information from your tour operator, transport or accommodation provider on the impact on any existing travel plans.
If you need urgent consular assistance, you should contact your local British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
