Coronavirus: stay up to date
Cases of coronavirus (COVID-19) have been confirmed in Croatia. See information on measures introduced in Croatia to limit the spread of the virus. Find out how to return to the UK from Croatia.
See coronavirus travel advice for guidance on international travel.
Sign up for email alerts for Croatia travel advice.
The Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) recommends that British nationals that wish to leave Croatia contact their travel operator to make arrangements to do so as soon as possible. This is in response to the ongoing coronavirus pandemic and in line with various controls and restrictions imposed by the Croatian authorities. British nationals in Croatia should follow the advice of the Croatian authorities.
The Croatian authorities have put in place a series of measures in response to the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic.
On 19 March Dubrovnik International Airport announced that it would close to all passengers and all air traffic would cease until further notice. Other airports remain open but you should check with your airline on the status of your flight as airport operations may be subject to change.
On 19 March the Croatian government announced that it would join other European Union member states in closing its land borders for a period of 30 days. The Croatian government has also advised that foreign nationals who do not have a valid residence permit are not allowed to enter Croatia. Croatians and their family members are allowed to return to the country. Exemptions are in place to permit the travel of healthcare professionals, EU (and UK nationals until December 2020) returning to their place of residence, goods carriers, cross border workers, diplomatic and military personnel, and passengers in transit. Further information about these restrictions can be found on the Croatian government website.
Countries neighbouring Croatia have introduced restrictions. Please check country-specific FCO Travel Advice for details.
A compulsory 14 day period of self-isolation remains in place for those entering Croatia from a number of European destinations, including the United Kingdom. Restrictions on travel may change at any time. You are advised to check the latest regulations before travelling. This includes re-entry to Croatia at any point during your stay, for example, transit through the Neum corridor (leaving Croatia to enter Bosnia and Herzegovina before re-entering Croatia) when driving between Dubrovnik and Split and vice versa. Quarantine rules are currently being applied at this point too. Foreign nationals who do not have a residence in Croatia will be asked for proof of an accommodation booking.
The rules on travel to EU countries will stay the same until 31 December 2020. This page will be updated with country-specific information for travellers to Croatia as things change. Sign up for email alerts and view the latest updates for UK nationals travelling to and living in Europe.
Approximately 860,000 British nationals visited Croatia in 2018. Most visits are trouble-free.
If you’re living in or moving to Croatia, visit our Living in Croatia guide in addition to this travel advice.
If you’re travelling to Croatia by road or rail, you can find information on road border crossings and international rail journeys on the Croatian Automobile Association (HAK) website.
Carry your passport with you at all times. You must be able to show some form of identification if required, including when checking into hotels. See Local laws and customs
Land mines are still a danger in some isolated areas. See Local travel
Terrorist attacks in Croatia can’t be ruled out. See Terrorism
You should take out comprehensive travel and medical insurance before you travel. For information on the European Health Insurance Card see Health
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.
The Overseas Business Risk service offers information and advice for British companies operating overseas on how to manage political, economic, and business security-related risks.
