Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Montserrat on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
Commercial flights to and from Montserrat remain very limited. Check with your travel company for the latest information.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Montserrat.
Returning to the UK
Travelling from and returning to the UK
Check what you must do to travel abroad and return to England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
If you plan to pass through another country to return to the UK, check the travel advice for the country you’re transiting. If you will pass through a red list country, book your hotel quarantine package before travelling to the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with any UK government testing requirements.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there. See Healthcare in Montserrat for more information on self-isolation.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Montserrat
There are currently no restrictions on internal travel in Montserrat, although social distancing requirements have reduced the capacity on buses and taxis. The wearing of a face covering is mandatory in all publicly accessible buildings, including banks, shops, and government offices etc, and remains mandatory on public transport and planes.
All curfew restrictions have been lifted.
Accommodation
Most hotels are not currently open. When planning your visit ensure that you have access to accommodation, either with friends or family or have confirmed the rental of a villa or quarantine-approved guest house, upon arrival.
Public places and spaces
Most businesses are open as normal, although all must adhere to social distancing rules and wear a face covering, except when eating and drinking in restaurants and bars. No gatherings of more than 75 people are allowed except in schools, churches, High Court hearings, at the airport and the Cultural Centre. Shops, restaurants and bars are allowed to open as normal, but must put in place and enforce a strict social distancing policy (six feet) and have approval from the Ministry of Health. Hairdressers, spas etc can only operate on an appointment basis.
Schools are now open.
Visit the government of Montserrat’s website for more information.
Healthcare in Montserrat
If you think you have COVID-19, flu or common cold symptoms, you are asked to call the “Flu Hotline” on +1 (664) 496-9724.
You will be contacted by local authorities if you receive a positive test. You must then self-isolate where you have been staying, along with anyone you are staying with. Visiting technicians should contact the Montserrat authorities for whom they are working for further instructions.
More information is available on the Government of Montserrat’s website and on the FCDO’s dedicated coronavirus travel advice page.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Montserrat.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Montserrat
The UK Government has been supplying vaccines to the people of the UK’s Overseas Territories. The Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) is the UK authority responsible for assessing the safety, quality and efficacy of vaccines. MHRA has temporarily authorised under Regulation 174 of Human Medicines Regulations 2012, the Astra Zeneca COVID-19 vaccine for supply in the UK, Crown Dependencies and Overseas Territories for use in Montserrat. Further information on the vaccine programme in Montserrat can be found at https://www.gov.ms/.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
