This page has information on travelling to Montserrat. Check what you must do to return to the UK.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport from the UK, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Montserrat set and enforce entry rules.
All travellers
All travel to or from Montserrat is via Antigua. If you are travelling to Montserrat you must comply with Antiguan entry requirements, even when immediately transiting on to Montserrat. Check the travel advice for Antigua before booking any flights to or from Montserrat.
If you’re fully vaccinated
Proof of vaccination status
Montserrat will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 recovery and vaccination record and proof of COVID-19 vaccination issued in the Crown Dependencies. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
You can enter Montserrat with a negative COVID-19 test. This can be either a PCR test or rapid antigen test, taken no more than three days before arrival. On arrival, you will be tested again and if negative, allowed to enter without quarantine. If the test is positive you will be required to quarantine and follow the guidelines set out by the health officials.
Further information, including on the costs of mandatory tests can be found on the Montserrat government website.
If you’re not fully vaccinated
If you are not fully vaccinated, or unable to prove you have been fully vaccinated, you will require a negative COVID-19 test. This can be either a PCR test or rapid antigen test, taken no more than three days before arrival. You will be tested again on arrival, and will be required to quarantine for 10 days, adhering to the guidelines and further testing, as set out by the health officials.
Further information, including on the costs of mandatory tests can be found on the Montserrat government website.
Children and young people
Children under the age of two are exempt from pre-arrival testing. Otherwise, children and young people under 18 will be treated the same as the adult who accompanies them.
Further information, including on the costs of mandatory tests can be found on the Montserrat government website.
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
Passport validity
You must hold a valid passport to enter Montserrat. Your passport must be valid for the proposed duration of your stay.
Visas
You don’t need a visa for Montserrat if you are either a British citizen passport holder or a British Overseas Territories citizen passport holder. For other nationalities, there is an on-line visa application service.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents are accepted for exit only from Montserrat.
Embarkation tax
When you leave Montserrat you will be charged an embarkation tax of EC$25 for residents or EC$45 for non-residents. In most cases this fee will be included in the purchase of a flight ticket, but you are advised to check with your airline before departing.
Yellow fever
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
Returning to the UK
Check what you must do to return to the UK.
