At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each overseas territory page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in overseas territories. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the local territory government.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Coronavirus
As a result of the presence of coronavirus in the region, the Government of Montserrat introduced emergency legislation on 14 March 2020 to permit enhanced health screening at ports of arrival. The legislation further allows screening of any individuals who exhibit signs of the virus and allows for the quarantining of individuals at the discretion of the Medical Officer. The legislation also prohibits gatherings of more than 50 people. Schools have been closed until 3 April 2020.
All scheduled air and ferry transport to Montserrat leaves through Antigua. On 12 March the government of Antigua and Barbuda announced those travelling from the following countries will not be permitted entry into Antigua: China, Italy, Iran, South Korea, Japan, Singapore. This applies to travellers of all nationalities. The government has not yet announced whether there are any time limits permissible between leaving the affected countries and travel to Antigua and Barbuda. If you have travelled to any of these countries in the past two months you should check with your nearest Embassy of Antigua and Barbuda before travel. Travellers arriving from France and Germany have been placed on a watch list. For the most up to date information, you should visit our travel advice for Antigua and Barbuda.
More information, including on suspected cases in Montserrat, is available on the Government of Montserrat’s website. British nationals on holiday in Montserrat should follow local advice and guidance. More information on coronavirus is available on the FCO’s dedicated travel advice page.
Other health risks
UK health authorities have classified Montserrat as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For more information and advice, visit the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
Cases of dengue fever have been confirmed in Montserrat. You should visit the NaTHNaC website for further information and advice on dengue fever and take steps to avoid being bitten by mosquitoes.
Montserrat has a small hospital with limited facilities. Anyone needing specialist medical treatment may need to travel to a neighbouring island. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation.
Dental care for visitors is by private practice, which is only available in the evenings, and at weekends.
If you suffer from asthma or other respiratory problems you could be affected by airborne dust, volcanic ash and gases.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 911 or 999 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
