Volcanoes
The Soufriere Hills Volcano has been active since 1995. An area around the volcano, containing about two-thirds of the island, is vulnerable to volcanic hazard and is a no-go area. In addition there are three areas around the coastline which are designated Maritime Exclusion Zones where no shipping should enter. Seek local advice about safety precautions and access restrictions.
A new Hazard Level System was introduced on 1 August 2014. The southern part of the island is divided into five zones A, B, C, F and V and two maritime zones E and W. Access permission to enter any of these zones depends on the level of volcanic activity. The current Hazard Level is Level 1 on a scale of 0 to 5 where 5 is the highest. At Level 1 there is 24 hour unlimited access to Zones A, B, C and F by vehicles, and controlled access only with permission to Zone V. The maritime zones E and W can only be transited by shipping during daylight hours, and no anchorage is possible in these zones at Level 1.
Around 40% of the island is unaffected by volcanic activity but these areas may be prone to ash falls and volcanic gases during any volcanic activity and if the wind is blowing from south to north. These sometimes cause cancellation of flights to and from the island. The volcanic situation is monitored 24/7 by the Montserrat Volcano Observatory staff and the situation remains under constant review.
An island-wide siren system is installed to warn of volcanic activity. The sirens are tested daily at 12:00 midday. If the sirens sound outside this, tune to Radio Montserrat (ZJB) immediately on FM 88.3 or 95.5 for an accompanying message. The radio station also provides regular scientific updates and advice to listeners. Brochures outlining the Hazard Level System are available at ports of entry to the island.
Maritime Exclusion Zone
There are three areas around Montserrat’s coastlines designated as Maritime Exclusion Zones. Shipping should not enter these zones. The largest of these extends for 4km on the eastern side of the island and there are two on the western side of the island. The most southerly of the two extends for 2km off shore and the third for a half kilometre off shore. Maps showing these zones along with their GPS co-ordinates are available to mariners at the Montserrat Port Authority at Port Little Bay.
Hurricanes
The hurricane season in the Caribbean officially runs from 1 June to 30 November, though very stormy weather can occur outside this period. Monitor local and international weather updates from the World Meteorological Organisation and the US National Hurricane Centre.
See our tropical cyclones page for advice about what to do if you are caught up in a tropical cyclone.
