There are currently no commercial options available to return to the UK from Montserrat.
UK special flights
From 3 June 2020, the UK is planning to operate special flights from Barbados to the UK. Local ‘sweeper’ flights will connect British travellers in Antigua and Barbuda, the British Virgin Islands, Dominica, the Dominican Republic, Grenada, Montserrat, Saint Kitts and Nevis, St Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago to Barbados.
The flight cost is £600 per person, regardless of where your journey begins.
These flights are for:
British travellers, normally resident in the UK
dependants travelling with a British traveller
Vulnerable British travellers will be prioritised. For these flights, you may be vulnerable if, for example, you are located in more remote or at-risk areas, those over the age of 70, those with serious underlying medical conditions, and those travelling with children. Remaining seats will be allocated on a first come, first served basis to British travellers and their direct dependants.
Vulnerable non-British UK residents with Indefinite Leave to Remain, and other foreign nationals, may be accommodated if there is sufficient capacity.
Your eligibility will be checked before your tickets are issued.
How to book
CTM is working on behalf of the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) to manage special flight bookings.
If you have already expressed your interest in returning home on a government-chartered flight and have responded to the request from the Governor’s Office for additional information to demonstrate you are eligible to do so, the Governor’s Office will contact you by email by Tuesday 26 May with instructions on how to book a ticket. Booking will be staggered by country. You should not attempt to book until you receive the link to the booking site from the Governor’s Office.
Passengers will not be able to choose which flight they will travel on. You will be allocated a place based on your location and personal circumstances. You will be told your flight date and time once your booking is confirmed.
If you are eligible to travel and have not already expressed your interest, you should contact the Governor’s Office as soon as possible, by emailing Alan.Morrison@fco.gov.uk.
Tickets will not be on sale at the airport. Do not travel to the airport without a confirmed ticket.
You may find it helpful to read our guide to eligibility and the booking process for special charter flights.
Financial support for a flight
If you have exhausted all other options available to you for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government to cover the cost of the ticket.
You would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK.
Our partner CTM is also authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO and details will be available when you are asked to pay.
Travel to the airport
You should make your own way to John A. Osborne Airport in Montserrat for your assigned flight.
Your journey home
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
If you’re returning home before 8 June, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others. From 8 June there will be new rules for entering the UK.
Future travel options
All scheduled air and ferry transport to/from Montserrat transits Antigua. For the most up to date information, you should visit our travel advice for Antigua and Barbuda.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK.
For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
If you cannot leave Montserrat
If you cannot leave Montserrat at this time, see advice on staying in Montserrat during coronavirus.
See more information and advice about staying where you are if you cannot return to the UK.
