

Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.    
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Montserrat
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Montserrat, attacks cannot be ruled out.
Crime
Crime levels are low, but watch your belongings when you are travelling. Keep your accommodation locked, do not leave baggage in parked vehicles and use hotel safes or deposit boxes if possible.
Laws and cultural differences
Montserrat is a British Overseas Territory and has its own laws. 
Dress code
Beachwear or swimwear is not socially acceptable except in beach areas and pools.
Illegal drugs and prison sentences
The penalties for possession, use or trafficking of illegal drugs are severe. If convicted, offenders can expect prison sentences and heavy fines.      
LGBT+ travellers
Same-sex sexual activity is legal, but same-sex marriages are not recognised in law. Throughout the island, people are very conservative. They are tolerant of same-sex couples, but do not approve of showing affection in public.
Hotels are generally welcoming to all, regardless of sexual orientation. Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Money
Most large supermarkets, restaurants and hotels accept major credit cards. The territory has limited but modern banking facilities. US dollars are widely accepted.
There are a small number of Bank of Montserrat (BoM) ATMs on the island, but they are only available to customers with a BoM bank account.
Outdoor activities and adventure tourism
Swimming safety  
Coastal waters can be dangerous. Riptides and undertows are common. Follow the instructions and warnings of local authorities.
See water safety on holiday from the Royal Life Saving Society.
Transport risks
Road travel
If you are planning to drive in Montserrat, see information on driving abroad.
To drive in Montserrat, you must get a temporary visitor’s driving licence, valid for 3 months. You can get this when you arrive at the airport or from any police station. You’ll need to show your UK driving licence and pay a fee of 50 East Caribbean dollars.
There is an island-wide maximum speed limit of 20mph, but local drivers do not observe it. Drive with caution due to dangerous hairpin bends, steep drops, poor road conditions and the unpredictable actions of other road users.   
Taxis
Taxis are not metered. Agree the fare in local currency before you set off.
Air travel
Short notice cancellations or changes to flight schedules are common. Check with your airline ahead of travel.
Extreme weather and natural disasters
Soufrière Hills volcano
The Soufrière Hills volcano may emit ash clouds and toxic gas. See Regional risks for information about how the island manages the risk of volcanic eruptions.
Hurricanes
The hurricane season in the Caribbean officially runs from 1 June to 30 November, though stormy weather can happen outside this period. Landslides and local flooding are common. The Belham Valley is especially prone, and communities on the Isles Bay side of the valley quite regularly find themselves cut off for a day or so following heavy rains.
Monitor local and international weather updates from the World Meteorological Organization and the US National Hurricane Center.
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to hurricanes.
