If you are arriving in the UK from Montserrat on or after 4am on 18 January you will need to self-isolate on your arrival, unless you have a valid exemption. Check the latest guidance for England, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales.
Travel to Montserrat is subject to entry restrictions
Entry into Montserrat is restricted to Montserratians and dependents, Resident Permit holders and dependents, air crew, non-resident technicians, crisis support workers and health professionals.
A pre-arrival online form must be completed before booking your flight and you require evidence of a negative PCR or RNA test result for COVID-19 5 days prior to arrival from 30 January.
If you are eligible for entry, you will have to enter self-isolation / quarantine for up to 14 days on arrival whether staying in your own home, a rented property or a government approved quarantine facility. Non-resident technicians are required to be tested on arrival (in addition to providing a negative test before departure).
The Montserrat airport is scheduled to be closed for runway resurfacing between 21 and 31 March 2021
See Entry requirements for more information before you plan to travel.
Preparing for your return journey to the UK
If you’re returning to the UK from overseas, you will need to:
provide your journey and contact details before you travel
If your return journey to the UK transits another country, you should check whether it is subject to a travel ban or any other additional requirements. If so, contact your travel provider.
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
If you’re planning travel to Montserrat, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCDO’s guidance on foreign travel insurance.
Montserrat is a British Overseas Territory. There is no formal British diplomatic or consular representation. The local authorities deal with all requests for emergency assistance. See Emergency assistance.
The hurricane season normally runs from June to November.
You should monitor local and international weather updates from the US National Hurricane Centre and follow the advice of local authorities, including any evacuation orders. See Natural disasters.UK health authorities have classified Montserrat as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For more information and advice, visit the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
Around one third of the island is virtually unaffected by volcanic activity. The other two-thirds are vulnerable. The Soufriere Hills Volcano has been active since 1995. However, there has been no major volcanic activity since February 2010. See Natural disasters.
Although there is no recent history of terrorism in Montserrat, attacks cannot be ruled out. See Terrorism.
