Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Zimbabwe on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
Visitors arriving into the UK who have been in or transited through Zimbabwe in the previous 10 days will not be permitted entry. British and Irish citizens, and third country nationals with residence rights in the UK arriving in the UK from Zimbabwe need to quarantine in a hotel. Check the latest guidance for England, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales.
From 1 January onwards those with residence rights includes: holders of Indefinite Leave to Remain; holders of existing leave to enter or remain (i.e those with biometric Residence permits) or an entry clearance/visa that grants such leave e.g. students, workers, etc (excluding visit visas); holders of EU Settlement Scheme (“EUSS”) leave; those who have rights of entry under the Withdrawal Agreements (including returning residents with a right of residence under the EEA Regulations and EEA frontier workers); family members of EEA nationals with rights under the Withdrawal Agreement.
There are commercial flights between the UK and Zimbabwe. Please check carefully with your travel provider which routes are available along with any additional requirements for your transit countries. You should also check the FCDO Travel Advice when planning a journey.
Tourists are authorised to travel between airports and designated tourist facilities. Be sure to take confirmation of your bookings with you when travelling.
On leaving Zimbabwe, you will be also required to present a negative COVID-19 certificate, issued no more than 48 hours prior to boarding your flight.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Zimbabwe.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements. You should contact local authorities for information on testing facilities.
On leaving Zimbabwe, you will be required to present a negative COVID-19 certificate, issued no more than 48 hours prior to boarding your flight.
Passengers who display COVID-19 symptoms, despite having the certificate, will be denied boarding and:
will be charged a processing fee of US $60
will have to submit to being screened and tested for COVID-19 at a holding facility and if they test negative, will be discharged for self-isolation for 14 days. If they test positive they will be detained at a place of isolation for 14 days.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Zimbabwe
Zimbabwe is currently in indefinite lockdown. You are encouraged to defer any unnecessary travel. There is a curfew between 6:30pm to 6:00am, which is being enforced by the security services. You should comply with these requirements wherever you are staying in Zimbabwe.
You should avoid any political gatherings or demonstrations. These can be unpredictable, can turn violent without notice and the response from the security forces may be disproportionate. You should exercise a high degree of caution and monitor local media and this travel advice for updates. It is compulsory to wear a face mask covering the nose and mouth whenever you are outside of your home.
Public transport is limited. Intercity travel is prohibited. All journeys operate under current COVID-19 restrictions.
Tourists are authorised to travel between airports and designated tourist facilities. Be sure to take confirmation of your bookings with you when travelling.
Accommodation
You should ensure you have accommodation for the period of your stay, as some hotels may close at short notice.
Public spaces and services
All gatherings are banned except funerals, which are limited to 30 people
Everyone in a public place must observe social distancing (i.e. keep at least one metre apart) and wear a face mask.
Non-essential shops and retail businesses can only open between 8am and 3:30pm. Markets must also close at 3:30pm.
Hotel and lodge bars and restaurants are open to their residents. All other restaurants and fast food outlets can only serve takeaways. Bars and night clubs are closed. Off-licenses may sell take away alcohol only between 10am and 3.30pm.
In addition to these national restrictions, localised lockdowns can be enforced at short notice.
Healthcare in Zimbabwe
If you take regular medication, you should ensure you have a sufficient supply and make sure you can access a repeat prescription in the event of travel delays. Most medicines that require a prescription from a doctor in the UK will require one in Zimbabwe. Zimbabwe pharmacies do not accept prescriptions issued in the UK. There is no reciprocal healthcare agreement between Zimbabwe and the UK. For contact details of English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
If you think you have COVID-19 symptoms, you should contact your medical practitioner for advice.
The government of Zimbabwe has said that anyone who tests positive for COVID-19 will be detained at a place of isolation for 14 days.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Zimbabwe.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Zimbabwe
We will update this page when the Government of Zimbabwe announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to receive email notifications when this page is updated.
The Zimbabwe national vaccination programme started in February 2021 and is using the Covaxin, Sinopharm, Sinovac and Sputnik V vaccines. The Government of Zimbabwe has stated that British nationals resident in Zimbabwe are eligible for vaccination if they choose to join the programme. You should contact your local health care provider to find out more.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad page.
If you’re a British national living in Zimbabwe, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, you should contact your local British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephones numbers are available 24/7.
Sign up for email alerts and follow the British Embassy Harare on Twitter and Facebook.
