

You should also read FCDO’s overall travel advice and regional risks advice.
Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Zimbabwe
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Zimbabwe, attacks cannot be ruled out.
Political situation
Demonstrations and rallies can be unpredictable and may turn violent. Authorities have in the past used force to suppress them, including after post-election protests in August 2018 and fuel demonstrations in January 2019.  Avoid political activity, or activities which could be considered political, including political discussions in public places or online.
It is illegal to make derogatory or insulting comments about the President or to carry material considered to be offensive to the President’s office.
The Southern African Development Community (SADC) will hold its 44th Ordinary Summit of Heads of State and Government in Harare on 17 August 2024. Anticipate increased security measures before and during the summit, with possible disruption to travel.
Blackouts and water rationing
There are frequent, and sometimes long, power blackouts because of electricity shortages. During blackouts, traffic lights may not work. There is also water rationing in parts of the country. Contact your tour operator or hotel for the latest updates.
Mobile network and landlines
The Zimbabwean mobile phone network and landlines are unreliable.
Crime
Protecting your belongings
There is a moderate level of crime in Zimbabwe. People travelling alone may be more vulnerable. Mugging, pickpocketing and jewellery theft are common in city centres, especially after dark. Street lighting can be poor. Be vigilant when leaving banks and cash points. Do not carry or display large amounts of cash in public places.
There have been occasional armed robberies targeting foreign residents. Make sure your accommodation is always secure.
Vehicle crime
There have been thefts and smash-and-grab robberies from vehicles, including:
at the main intersections along the route to Robert Gabriel Mugabe International Airport
along Liberation Legacy Way (Borrowdale Road) and Churchill Road in Harare
on the Masvingo-Beitbridge road
Be particularly vigilant when using these routes. Keep vehicle doors locked and windows closed. Be careful at night and at petrol stations. Do not leave your vehicle unattended in unguarded areas in towns.
Laws and cultural differences
Personal ID
Carry a photocopy of your passport or your Zimbabwean resident ID at all times. Leave your original passport somewhere safe. If you lose your UK passport, get a police report. You may need to show this to immigration to explain why you have no proof of entry when you depart.
Illegal drugs and prison sentences
Zimbabwean laws on the possession, use or trafficking of illegal drugs are strict and carry heavy fines or prison sentences.
Money
Zimbabwe’s economy is unpredictable. Monetary policy can change at short notice.
Zimbabwe has a multi-currency system. You can use US dollars for most transactions. In April 2024, Zimbabwe Gold (ZiG) was introduced as a new currency to replace the Zimbabwean dollar. The US dollar will remain legal tender. 
It is illegal to exchange foreign currency anywhere other than officially licensed dealers such as banks or bureaux de change. Bureaux de change will accept and change foreign currency, particularly US dollars. 
There is a shortage of physical US dollar cash, so it’s not always possible to make withdrawals using an international debit or credit card. Change is rarely available, so carry small denomination notes.
Check in advance what payment methods a restaurant, hotel or tour operator will accept. Some businesses, including some medical providers, may not accept credit or debit cards. Most suppliers prefer US dollars in cash.
Before making a transaction, check the currency in which the price is quoted. Check exchange rates before any transaction, as they can be unpredictable. 
To avoid being overcharged, make sure to say you’re using an international bank card when paying in shops and restaurants and make sure you are charged in the correct currency. 
There can be challenges with international transfers from outside of Zimbabwe.
Using cameras and binoculars in secure areas
It is illegal to take photographs of government offices, airports, military establishments, political party offices, official residences, embassies and other sensitive locations without special permission from the Ministry of Information. It is also illegal to photograph police and armed forces personnel, demonstrations and protests. Laws are strictly enforced. You should exercise caution and avoid photography that might accidentally include sensitive buildings or personnel.
State House in Harare
Armed members of the Presidential Guard patrol the area around State House in Harare (the President’s official residence). They do not allow loitering by motorists, cyclists or pedestrians, and it is illegal to take photographs. The roads in this area are closed from 6pm to 6am. Do not use GPS navigation systems around the President’s residence and, if possible, avoid the area altogether.
Dual nationality
Since 1984 it has been illegal to hold dual nationality. The Constitutional Court recently ruled that some categories of dual nationality are legal, and it is now possible for Zimbabwean citizens by birth to hold dual nationality. However, the legislation remains inconsistent, and the Zimbabwean authorities may obstruct, detain or even seek to prosecute someone they consider an offender. The British Embassy is not able to provide the full range of consular services to people with dual British and Zimbabwean nationality.
Pornographic material
It is illegal to possess or import pornographic material.
Wildlife, animal products and souvenirs
It is illegal to buy, sell, kill or capture any protected wild animal or trade its parts without a licence. Buying or trafficking such goods risks prosecution and prison sentences of up to 9 years.
Camouflage clothing
It is illegal for civilians to wear any form of clothing made from camouflage material.
LGBT+ travellers
Sex between men and same-sex marriage are illegal in Zimbabwe. Zimbabwean society remains conservative towards same-sex relations, especially between men. However, there is a small but active underground LGBT+ scene in Harare and prosecutions are rare. Be aware that showing affection in public could result in unwanted attention.
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers. You can also find more local information from the GALZ Association.
Outdoor activities and adventure tourism
Safari lodges and game reserves
Safety standards in Zimbabwe’s safari lodges and game reserves vary. Check with the Safari Operators Association of Zimbabwe whether operators are trained and licensed. Animal attacks have injured and killed visitors. Treat wild animals with caution and respect and always keep a safe distance from them. Some activities, such as walking or canoe safaris, could pose risks to personal safety. Make sure your travel insurance covers all the activities you plan on doing in Zimbabwe.
Transport risks
Road travel
If you are planning to drive in Zimbabwe, see information on driving abroad.
You need either a 1968 international driving permit (IDP) or a UK driving licence to drive in Zimbabwe. The 1949 IDP is not accepted any more. You cannot buy an IDP outside the UK, so get one before you travel.  
You can drive in Zimbabwe with a UK driving licence for up to 12 months. Make sure you have copies of your passport’s photo page and visa with you in the car at all times. Be ready to show ID if asked and keep the originals in a safe place where you can get them easily.
Obey police signals, stop at roadblocks and tollgates. Make sure you get a receipt if you are asked to pay any fine.
The standard of driving is very poor in Zimbabwe. Traffic accidents are a common cause of death and injury. Hazards include:
deep potholes
broken traffic lights
poorly lit vehicles (including heavy good vehicles and cyclists)
poorly lit roads
badly marked roads
stray livestock
pedestrians
Emergency services may provide very limited help in the event of an accident, and ambulances are often delayed.
You should:
always wear a seatbelt
lock car doors
avoid driving outside main towns at night
travel carefully on roads between cities
carry a comprehensive medical kit
be careful about stopping at laybys
Plan carefully before setting out on long-distance journeys. Get local advice about any places you plan to visit. Fuel is sometimes unavailable and there may be queues. Carry extra fuel or top up your tank whenever possible. Before using your international card to pay for fuel, check your card will be accepted.
It is illegal to continue driving when the President’s motorcade goes past, no matter which side of the road you’re on. If you see the motorcade, pull off the road or on to the side of the road if this is not possible. The security forces have assaulted people for stopping in the wrong place or for not stopping soon enough.
If you’re resident in Zimbabwe, you may want to get a Zimbabwean licence to minimise the chance of problems at roadblocks.
If you’re bringing a vehicle not registered in Zimbabwe into the country, you must have a police vehicle clearance certificate (temporary import permit).
Bus travel
Commuter buses (‘combis’) are often overcrowded, inadequately maintained, uninsured and recklessly driven. Avoid them if possible. Larger intercity buses may also be poorly driven. There have been serious road accidents involving long-distance buses travelling at night.
Taxis
Taxis recommended by hotels are usually reliable and in good condition. Major hotels usually have their own taxis.
Air travel
The UK Air Safety List (ASL) lists all known airlines in Zimbabwe that do not meet international safety standards and are banned from operating commercial air services to and from the UK. Check the UK Air Safety List when considering which airlines to fly with. The list is maintained by the Department for Transport, based on advice from the UK Civil Aviation Authority.
British government employees travelling to and within Zimbabwe have been advised to use carriers that are not on the UK ASL.
Rail travel
The rail system in Zimbabwe is underdeveloped and very poorly maintained. Level crossings are poorly marked, resulting in many accidents. Passenger services are currently suspended. Check with National Railways of Zimbabwe for updates.
Extreme weather and natural disasters
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards.
Flooding
The rainy season runs from November to April. Heavy rainfall can make roads harder to pass and some areas impassable.
