Coronavirus guidance is being updated.
Read the Prime Minister’s statement for the latest information.

This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Zimbabwe as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Zimbabwe to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Informing the British Embassy
If you are affected by the suspension of flights in to and out of Zimbabwe, the British Embassy would like to know who and where you are. You’re encouraged to email the details listed below to the British Embassy’s dedicated mailbox ukinfo.harare@fco.gov.uk:
full name as shown on your passport
date of birth
passport number
full home address and postcode in the UK
where exactly you are currently staying in Zimbabwe
email address and telephone number (check that you are able to receive phone calls from unidentified numbers, including internationally)
any specific medical needs/vulnerabilities
Moving around in Zimbabwe
President Mnangagwa announced on 30 March that everybody in Zimbabwe must stay at home, except to buy essential food or medicine. Only certain categories of key workers are exempt. The duration of the nationwide lockdown has been extended indefinitely until further notice. You should comply with this requirement, wherever you are staying in Zimbabwe.
It is compulsory to wear a face mask covering the nose and mouth whenever you are outside of your home.
All gatherings of more than 50 people are prohibited, unless you need to access an essential service in which case you should try to maintain social distance.
Accommodation
You should ensure you have accommodation for the period of the lockdown, as some hotels may close at short notice.
Visas
The Government of Zimbabwe has announced that all tourist visas have been automatically extended for the duration of the lockdown.
Health
The Government of Zimbabwe has said that anyone displaying a symptom associated with coronavirus will be placed in a Government of Zimbabwe facility for testing. Anyone who tests positive will be treated in a Government of Zimbabwe treatment centre.
If you take regular medication, you should ensure you have a sufficient supply.
For contact of English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Zimbabwe.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Zimbabwe, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, you should contact your local British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephones numbers are available 24/7.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
