The FCDO advises against all but essential travel to:
the whole of Zimbabwe based on the current assessment of COVID-19 risks.
From 9 January, visitors arriving into England who have been in or transited through Zimbabwe in the previous 10 days will not be permitted entry. British and Irish nationals, and third country nationals with residence rights in the UK arriving in England from Zimbabwe will be required to quarantine in a hotel. Different requirements apply for arrivals into Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland.
The FCDO is not advising those already travelling in Zimbabwe to leave at this time. Travellers should follow the advice of the local authorities on how best to protect themselves and others, including any measures that they bring in to control the virus. You should contact your tour operator or airline if you have any questions about your return journey.
Travel to Zimbabwe is subject to entry restrictions
Non-residents entering Zimbabwe must possess a negative COVID-19 test result certificate, issued no more than 48 hours before their departure to Zimbabwe. Those who arrive in Zimbabwe without a negative PCR test certificate are required to quarantine at a designated hotel at their own expense. Those arriving with a negative PCR test certificate shall self-quarantine for 10 days from their date of arrival in Zimbabwe
Returning citizens or residents of Zimbabwe who do not have a valid negative PCR test certificate on arrival are required to quarantine for 10 days at a designated hotel or other designated place of quarantine at their own expense and will only be released after a negative COVID-19 test result. Returning residents or citizens of Zimbabwe with proof of a negative PCR test certificate can self-quarantine at home for 10 days
Enforcement of quarantine may vary
See Entry requirements for more information before you plan to travel.
Preparing for your return journey to the UK
If you’re returning to the UK from overseas, you will need to:
provide your journey and contact details before you travel
check if you need to self-isolate on your return
If your return journey to the UK transits another country, you should check whether it is subject to a travel ban or any other additional requirements. If so, contact your travel provider or check FCDO travel advice for that country.
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
If you’re planning travel to Zimbabwe, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check your cover. See the FCDO’s guidance on foreign travel insurance.
For information about COVID-19 vaccines, see the Coronavirus page.
In Zimbabwe, there is a curfew between 10pm and 5:30am, which is being enforced by the security services. The Zimbabwean government has said that restaurants can open for takeaways and sit down meals at 50% capacity, and can stay open until 9:00pm. Bars remain closed. Essential services such as hospitals, pharmacies and supermarkets remain open between 8am and 7pm only. Tourist facilities and National Parks remain open subject to COVID-19 safety measures.
You should avoid any political gatherings or demonstrations. These can be unpredictable, can turn violent without notice and the response from the security forces may be disproportionate. You should exercise a high degree of caution and monitor local media and this travel advice for updates.
Taking photographs of members of police and armed forces personnel and of demonstrations and protests is not permitted. You should avoid political activity, or activities which could be considered political, including political discussions in public places. Ensure you carry identification, so that you can produce it if required to do so by the security forces. See Political situation
Zimbabwe’s economic situation remains unpredictable. Whilst the primary legal tender in Zimbabwe is the “Zimbabwe Dollar”, it is currently possible for tourists to transact using the US Dollar at the official exchange rate. This may change without notice. There is a shortage of physical cash so it is not always possible to make cash withdrawals using an international bank card. You should check with your tour operator or hotel what payment methods will be accepted. See Money
Zimbabwe is currently experiencing some electricity shortages resulting in extended periods without power. During blackouts, you should exercise a high degree of caution when driving as traffic lights may not be operational. Water rationing is being experienced in certain parts of the country. Contact your tour operator or hotel for latest updates.
Availability of fuel is sporadic and queues are common. You are advised to check in advance if you can make payment with an international payment card. See Road travel
There’s a moderate level of crime in Zimbabwe. Remain vigilant, especially after dark, and make sure accommodation and vehicles are secure. See Safety and security
Always carry identity documentation or a copy of your passport. See Local laws and customs
Holiday and business visas are available at the port of entry. Don’t violate the conditions of your visa. See Visas
Dual British-Zimbabwean nationals who travel to Zimbabwe must have a valid travel document to re-enter the United Kingdom. It’s not possible to re-enter the UK using a Zimbabwean passport or emergency travel document without a visa or entry clearance endorsed. See Dual nationals
Air Zimbabwe has been refused permission to operate flights to the EU because the airline has been unable to demonstrate that it complies with international air safety standards. British government employees travelling to and within Zimbabwe have been advised to use carriers that aren’t subject to the EU operating ban. See Air travel
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Zimbabwe, attacks can’t be ruled out. See Terrorism
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.
