Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Samoa on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
Commercial flights to and from Samoa remain very limited. Check with your travel company for the latest information, including on transit airports and any specific requirements they have.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Samoa.
Returning to the UK
Travelling from and returning to the UK
Check what you must do to travel abroad and return to England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
If you plan to pass through another country to return to the UK, check the travel advice for the country you’re transiting.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Samoa
A State of Emergency was declared on 20 March 2020.
Public transport, including bus and ferry services, have now resumed a normal schedule, apart from on Sundays.
Accommodation
Accommodation, including hotels and private rentals, is available in Samoa, though certain requirements may be applicable.
Public places and services
The Samoan government announced on 10 June 2021 that it was further relaxing restrictions brought in to limit the spread of COVID-19. Under the new restrictions, some gatherings such as church services, village meetings, and non-contact sport events are permitted. Markets have been allowed to reopen, although street vendors remain prohibited from selling on footpaths. Restaurants and entertainment venues have also been allowed to reopen at reduced capacity, due to social distancing rules. A ban on most gatherings and public activities remains in place on Sundays.
Healthcare in Samoa
You should monitor the Samoan Health Advisory website.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Samoa.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Samoa
Wherever possible British nationals should aim to be vaccinated in the country where they live. We will update this page when the Government of Samoa announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Samoan national vaccination programme started in March 2021 and is using the AstraZeneca vaccine. The Government of Samoa has stated that British nationals resident in Samoa are eligible for vaccination Further information on the vaccination programme is available on the Government of Samoa Ministry of Health website.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in Samoa, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
