The information on this page covers the most common types of travel and reflects the UK government’s understanding of the rules currently in place. Unless otherwise stated, this information is for travellers using a full ‘British Citizen’ passport.
The authorities in the country or territory you’re travelling to are responsible for setting and enforcing the rules for entry. If you’re unclear about any aspect of the entry requirements, or you need further reassurance, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
You should also consider checking with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Entry rules in response to coronavirus (COVID-19)
Entry to Samoa
Only permanent residents and essential workers are permitted to enter Samoa at this time.
All international cruise ships and yachts will not be granted entry into Samoa.
Some countries in the region have also introduced travel restrictions to and from the Pacific islands. You should check specifics for any countries that might be involved in your travel when planning a trip to and/or from Samoa.
In this context, all travellers from outside of New Zealand must spend 28 days in New Zealand before onward travel to Samoa and must comply with all requirements. All passengers entering Samoa from New Zealand will be quarantined for 14 days at a designated facility.
Travellers from New Zealand are required: to complete the Health Declaration Card in flight; to have a COVID-19 test within three days before arrival; and to undergo a medical examination by a Registered Medical Practitioner within three days before arrival.
You will not be permitted to board the plane if you have a positive COVID-19 test or a COVID-19 test has not been done. Additionally, you will not be allowed to board if you have any of the following symptoms: cough; fever; sore throat; or flu-like symptoms.
All travellers are required to present a hard copy of a COVID-19 test and medical report on arrival to health officers. Failure can result in denial of entry, with individuals returned to the point of departure before Samoa.
Quarantine requirements
You will be quarantined for 14 days upon arrival into Samoa at a designated location. You must bring your own personal necessities, e.g. soap, tooth brush, toothpaste, to last for the 14 days of quarantine.
Passengers are advised to check in 1 piece of luggage (max 20 kgs) when boarding. If you have any known medical conditions, please ensure you have enough medication to last for 2 months and inform relevant officials on arrival. You are not allowed to bring alcohol into the quarantine site or allowed to consume any alcohol. Passengers who are on special diets will be responsible to pay for their own special dietary needs. You are required to wear a face mask at all times and advised to maintain social distancing in flight.
Whilst in quarantine the cost of accommodation, breakfast and lunch for passengers should be borne by the Samoan Government, but dinner will be the passenger’s responsibility. All children and infants less than 18 years must be accompanied by a parent or legal guardian. Parents must ensure all immunisations are up to date. Parents/legal guardians travelling with children must ensure sufficient supplies of basic needs while in quarantine, e.g. diapers, wipes, formula. A family member must travel with passengers having chronic medical conditions, the elderly and those with special needs. There are penalties if the conditions of the quarantine are breached.
Travel via Australia or New Zealand
The Government of Australia has announced that from 9pm Australia Eastern Standard Time on 20 March, entry to the country will only be permitted to Australian citizens or permanent residents. This follows a similar announcement by New Zealand from 19 March.
Regular entry requirements
Visas
Visas are not required for stays of up to 60 days.  As a visitor you must have an onward or return ticket and a valid visa (if required) for the next country to which you are travelling.  Requests for an extension of your stay must be made to the local Immigration Office.  Further information on entry requirements can be found on the Samoa Immigration Department’s website. 
A visa is required for visits of longer than 60 days. Applications for visas can be made at Samoa’s overseas missions in Brussels, Wellington, Auckland, Canberra or New York, or to the Immigration Office at the Prime Minister’s Department (PO Box L1861, Apia, Samoa).
Passport validity  
Your passport should be valid for a minimum period of six months from the date of entry into Samoa. 
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are accepted for entry and exit from Samoa. Your ETD must be valid for at least 6 months.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
Departure tax  
All visitors (including children over 11 years) are required to pay a departure tax of $ST 40.
