Visit your health professional at least 4 to 6 weeks before your trip to check whether you need any vaccinations or other preventive measures.
Check the latest country-specific information and advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website or from NHS (Scotland) on the fitfortravel website.
Useful information and advice about healthcare abroad is also available on the NHS Choices website. Health care facilities in Samoa are adequate for routine medical treatment, but are limited in range and availability. Doctors and hospitals often expect immediate cash payment for health services.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
On 17 November 2019 Samoa declared a health emergency following several deaths linked to the ongoing measles outbreak. You should monitor the NaTHNaC website for the latest updates and advice.
On 22 November 2019 reports were received that Samoan Customs are requiring proof of measles immunisation to enter the county. Air New Zealand is advising travelers to Samoa to ensure they have proof of such immunisation. Additionally the government has banned all travel by people under the age of 19 between Upolu and Savaii, until further notice. There are also bans on pregnant women attending their work place.
In the event of a medical emergency, evacuation to Australia, New Zealand or Hawaii is likely to be the only option for treatment. You may find it hard to get some specialised prescription medicines in Samoa.
Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation.
UK health authorities have classified Samoa as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For information and advice about the risks associated with Zika virus, visit the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
Cases of dengue fever have been confirmed in Samoa. You should take steps to avoid being bitten by mosquitoes.
Water-borne, food-borne and other infectious diseases (including typhoid, hepatitis, filariasis and tuberculosis) occur.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 996 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
