

Terrorism  
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.      
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad. 
Terrorism in Samoa 
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Samoa, attacks cannot be ruled out. 
Crime 
The level of serious crime is low, and incidents of petty theft are uncommon and opportunistic.   
Do not leave your belongings unattended. Use hotel safes or deposit boxes for passports and valuables. 
Laws and cultural differences  
Dress code 
Local communities expect you to dress modestly when visiting towns and villages. Swimwear is acceptable on the beach or by streams and waterfalls, but anywhere else it is likely to receive negative attention. 
Mobile phone coverage 
Phone coverage in rural areas and outlying islands can be limited or non-existent. Many UK mobile phones do not work, as your provider may not have an international roaming agreement in Samoa.  
You can buy Vodafone and Digicel SIM cards at the airport and at convenience stores and supermarkets. You must register your SIM card if you buy it locally. 
Alcohol laws and bans 
It is illegal to drink alcohol in public except at bars or restaurants. The legal drinking age is 21. 
Illegal drugs and prison sentences 
Possession of illegal drugs carries a possible 14-year prison sentence. 
LGBT+ travellers 
Same-sex sexual activity is illegal in Samoa and same-sex marriage is not recognised. Showing affection in public is likely to receive negative attention.  
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers. 
Outdoor activities and adventure tourism  
Swimming and surfing safety 
Samoa’s tides can produce powerful currents in ocean lagoons. Take local advice before swimming. There have been fatal accidents at popular beaches.  
Many waves break directly on to reefs and the currents can be harsh. Take local advice before surfing.  
For more advice, see water safety on holiday from the Royal Life Saving Society. 
Scuba diving 
Dive companies and tour operators may have limited resources and do not always observe safety and maintenance standards.  
Check that your travel insurance covers you and see if the policy has conditions – for example, using a qualified instructor.  
Ask the dive operator about the safety procedures they use. If you’re not satisfied, use a different provider. 
Stray dogs 
Stray dogs are common in Apia and in many villages. They can become aggressive if you approach them or if they feel threatened. There have been cases of attacks by dogs. Keep your distance when cycling or walking. 
Transport risks  
Road travel  
If you are planning to drive in Samoa, see information on driving abroad.  
To drive in Samoa, you must buy a temporary driving permit, which requires your UK driving licence. Car rental companies will help you with this. You can use the permit for up to 90 days a year. To drive for a longer period, you must get a Samoan driving licence. 
The speed limit is 40kmph in towns and villages and 56kmph outside. If you have an accident, you must report it to the police within 24 hours. When driving near villages watch for children and animals on the roads. Avoid driving at night as roads are poorly lit and any hazards make driving very dangerous. 
Extreme weather and natural disasters 
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards. 
Earthquakes and tsunamis 
Samoa is part of the Pacific Ring of Fire, an active zone where earthquakes and tremors are a constant risk. The last major earthquake was in 2009.  
The US Federal Emergency Management Agency website has advice about what to do before, during and after an earthquake and resulting tsunamis. 
Tropical cyclones 
The tropical cyclone season normally runs from November to the end of April, but most rain falls from December to March. Higher rainfall inland can cause flooding. Monitor local and international weather updates from the World Meteorological Organization, the Samoa Meteorology Division or the Fiji Meteorological Service.   
