If you are arriving in the UK from Samoa on or after 4am on 18 January you will need to self-isolate on your arrival, unless you have a valid exemption. Check the latest guidance for England, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales.
Travel to Samoa is subject to entry restrictions
Samoa’s international borders are currently closed under an ongoing State of Emergency, unless approved by the Samoan government due to exceptional circumstances, e.g. repatriation.
The Samoan Ministry of Health issued updated travel advice on 30 December 2020 which denies entry to travellers originating from or transiting the UK and South Africa. This is due to the emergence of a COVID-19 variant.
The Samoan government announced that, with effect from 26 March 2020, all international travel to and from Samoa by plane will cease until further notice.
See Entry requirements for more information before you plan to travel.
Preparing for your return journey to the UK
If you’re returning to the UK from overseas, you will need to:
provide your journey and contact details before you travel
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
If you’re planning travel to Samoa, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) guidance on foreign travel insurance.
Most visits to Samoa are trouble-free but incidents of petty theft do happen from time to time.
UK health authorities have classified Samoa as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For information and advice about the risks associated with Zika virus, visit the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
Roads often cross small streams; you should avoid driving at night outside built up areas. See Road travel
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Samoa, attacks can not be ruled out. See Terrorism
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.
