Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Mexico on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
Commercial flights are operating to and from Mexico. Check with your travel company for the latest information.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Mexico.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements. You should contact local authorities for information on testing facilities (only available in Spanish).
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Mexico
People should remain at home wherever possible, and particularly the over 60s, those with underlying medical conditions, and pregnant women.
Follow the advice of the local authorities. Individual states in Mexico are imposing additional measures and restrictions. The Mexican government has put into place a traffic light system to manage the easing of restrictions, this varies from state to state; review local government websites for detailed information for where you are.
Local government sites
Mexico City Guanajuato Quintana Roo
Aguascalientes Guerrero San Luis Potosí
Baja California Hidalgo Sinaloa
Baja California Sur Jalisco Sonora
Campeche Michoacán Tabasco
Chiapas Morelos Tamaulipas
Chihuahua Nayarit Tlaxcala
Coahuila Nuevo León Veracruz
Colima Oaxaca Yucatán
Durango Puebla Zacatecas
Estado de México Querétaro  
Accommodation
Individual states in Mexico are imposing additional measures and restrictions; review local government websites (in Spanish) for detailed information for where you are.
Public places and services
Individual states in Mexico are imposing additional measures and restrictions; review local government websites (in Spanish) for detailed information for where you are.
You can find further advice and information on the measures imposed in Mexico City on the Mexico City Government website.
Healthcare in Mexico
If you present symptoms after having entered the country, you should call 800 0044 800. You will be attended by trained personnel of the Ministry of Health.
For specific helplines for the different states in Mexico, see the Mexican Government’s “Direct Line COVID-19” directory.
The app called “COVID-19MX”, created by the Mexican government, allows you to get a health test and locate your nearest medical facilities (including COVID-19 hospitals).
For further information (in Spanish), see the Mexican Ministry of Health website.
If you are in Mexico City, you can also send a free of charge text message saying “covid19” to 51515 (service only available in Spanish).
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Mexico.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Mexico
Wherever possible British nationals should aim to be vaccinated in the country where they live. As further information is available about the national vaccination programme, this page will be updated. Sign up to get email notifications.
COVID-19 vaccines for registered residents in Mexico
We will update this page when the Government of Mexico announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Mexican national vaccination programme started in December 2020 and is using the AstraZeneca, CanSino, Janssen (Johnson and Johnson) Pfizer-BioNTech, Sinovac and Sputnik V vaccines. The Government of Mexico has stated that British nationals resident in Mexico are eligible for vaccination if they choose to join the programme.
The Mexican authorities have issued the following guidance on how to get a vaccine in Mexico. To register for a vaccine you will need a valid CURP (Mexican National Registration Number), a unique number issued to you when you registered as a resident in Mexico.
If you hold a valid CURP, you can now register to receive the COVID-19 vaccine if you fall into one of the following categories;
30 years old or over
18 years or over and pregnant
Teachers working in Mexico City
If you fall into one of these categories, please register on the Mexican Ministry of Health vaccination page (in Spanish). Note down your vaccine registry number and wait to be contacted by the local authorities for your vaccination appointment. Due to the high volume of visitors on the website, you may need to try at a different time.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in Mexico, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
