At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Coronavirus
The Mexican authorities have introduced a number of precautionary measures in response to the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. You should comply with additional screening measures put in place by the authorities. Given the fast changing situation, you should check the latest entry requirements for your destination and keep in touch with your airline, cruise line or tour operator. New restrictions may be imposed with little warning. Please note that some airlines are imposing their own additional restrictions on travelers, different from the Mexican government guidelines. These restrictions may apply for domestic and international flights. Review the airline requirements carefully before purchasing any flights and before you travel.
The Mexican government has announced the closure of all schools and universities from 20th March until 20th April. In addition, the Ministry of Health has recommended suspending all non-essential activities and to cancel all large-scale events of more than 5000 people, starting on 23rd March.If you present symptoms upon arrival at an airport in Mexico, you should ask for the International Health Team (“Sanidad Internacional”). If you present symptoms after having entered the country, you should call 800 0044 800. You will be attended by trained personnel of the Ministry of Health. For further information (in Spanish), please see the Mexican Ministry of Health website.
If you are in Mexico City, you can also send a free of charge text message saying “covid19” to 51515 (service only available in Spanish).
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
You can find more information about cases in Mexico on the TravelHealthPro website.
Other health risks
UK health authorities have classified Mexico as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For more information and advice, visit the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
On arrival in Mexico City and other high altitude areas, you may feel a lack of energy, shortness of breath or headaches. This NaTHNaC factsheet includes advice on how to reduce the risk of altitude sickness and what to do if you develop symptoms.
High levels of air pollution can occur in Mexico City and may aggravate heart, lung or respiratory conditions. Children, the elderly and those with pre-existing medical conditions may be especially affected. You can check the pollution index levels for many cities in real time.
Drink only boiled or bottled water and avoid ice in drinks.
In the last 3 years there has been an increase in reported cases of a food and water bug, cyclospora, affecting travellers returning from Mexico, particularly from the Riviera Maya region between the months of May and June. You should follow the advice of the National Travel Health Network and Centre.
Local medical care
Not all hospitals will agree to deal directly with medical insurance companies. You should be prepared to pay for treatment yourself up front and then seek a refund. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation.
Cases of Chikungunya virus have been confirmed in Mexico. For more details about this outbreak, see the website of the National Health Network and Centre. You should take steps to avoid being bitten by mosquitoes.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 911 and ask for an ambulance. In Mexico City, you can also use the emergency buttons on CCTV cameras visible across the city which will immediately connect you to the emergency services. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
