Hurricanes
The hurricane season in Mexico normally runs from June to November and can affect both the Pacific and Atlantic coasts. Be aware that effects of tropical storms and hurricanes can span hundreds of miles from the centre of the storm, causing flooding, landslides and disruption to local services, including transport.
Hurricane Delta is expected to pass through the Yucátan peninsula in the early hours of Wednesday 7 October. It is forecast to be a major hurricane when it reaches Mexico. The areas affected may include tourist resorts on the Caribbean coast of the country (including Cancun, Cozumel, Playa del Carmen, Tulum and Isla de las Mujeres). Local authorities have confirmed the evacuation of some hotels in the area and the island of Holbox. Further evacuation orders for other areas may follow. We urge all tourists and residents to follow the advice of the local authorities. Airports in Cancun and Cozumel will close from 1700hrs on 6 October. Please check with your airline or travel agent for details of when flights will resume.
Monitor local and international weather updates from the US National Hurricane Center and check with the local authorities or your tour operator for any changes to your travel plans.
See our tropical cyclones page for information and advice about what to do if you’re caught up in a storm.
Earthquakes
Most of Mexico is occasionally subject to earthquakes. Tremors occur regularly, particularly in the states of Oaxaca and Guerrero.
The US Federal Emergency Management Agency has advice about what to do before, during and after an earthquake or tsunami as does the Mexican Ministry of Civil Protection (in Spanish).
If you’re travelling in Mexico City you can download the 911 CDMX app, which warns you an earthquake will happen 60 seconds before the movement starts. Although these alarms are very useful, they can’t detect every kind of earthquake there can be.
Volcanoes
The Popocatepetl and Colima volcanoes are active and closed to the public. There are danger zones around both volcanoes, the size of which can change depending on the current level of activity. The latest information on the current status of the Colima volcano can be found on the website of the University of Colima’s Volcano Observatory. For updates on the Popocatepetl volcano, visit the website of the Mexican Disaster Prevention Centre.
