!
Warning
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to parts of Mexico.

This section has safety advice for regions of Mexico. It only covers regions where FCDO has specific advice.
You should also read FCDO’s overall travel advice and safety and security advice.
North
Drug-related violence affects the northern states of Sonora, Chihuahua, Coahuila, Nuevo Leon, Tamaulipas, Sinaloa and Durango.
Many fatalities are suspected gang members killed in violent clashes between the different organisations competing for control of trafficking routes into the USA. Armed clashes between security forces and drug groups can happen at any time without warning. Take extreme care outside tourist areas in all these states.
Baja California, including Tijuana
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to the city of Tijuana, except:
airside transit through Tijuana airport
the Cross Border Xpress bridge from the airport linking terminals across the Mexican-US border
the federal toll road 1D and Via Rápida through Tijuana to the border
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to the city of Tecate in Baja California, including roads between Tijuana and Tecate.  
If you cross the border by toll road 1D, try to do so during daylight hours or be very cautious after dark. Tijuana is an extremely violent city. Criminals could target you or you could get caught up in conflicts between rival groups.
Many businesses, including shops, follow an unofficial curfew, only opening during daylight hours due to the security threat. Organised crime groups are fighting for control over the city’s drug trade and trafficking routes. There are high rates of kidnapping, murder and organised crime activity, particularly drug, human and arms trafficking.
Armed attacks and targeted killings happen across the state. Violent robberies are a particular issue in the urban centres of Tijuana, Mexicali and Ensenada. Be careful in Tijuana, Mexicali, Ensenada and Rosarito – armed criminals in these towns have targeted stores and bystanders in response to disputes with the government. There have also been incidents of vehicles being targeted by armed attacks. Stick to established tourist routes and destinations across the state and always stay aware of your surroundings.
Take care in Ciudad Juárez or other cities in northern states. Travel during daylight hours when possible, tell relatives or friends of your travel plans and only use reputable hotels.
Take the same precautions in the state of Baja California, including Tijuana. There is drug-related crime in Baja California Sur, including Los Cabos.
Chihuahua
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to the state of Chihuahua, except:
the city of Chihuahua
the border crossing in Ciudad Juárez (accessed by federal toll road 45)
federal toll road 45D connecting the cities of Chihuahua and Ciudad Juárez
the Copper Canyon rail route to and from Chihuahua and towns immediately on this route including Creel
the road from Creel via San Juanito to San Pedro
state highway 16 from San Pedro to Chihuahua
There are high levels of organised crime activity, particularly human and drugs trafficking. There is illegal drug cultivation in rural areas of the state, with associated criminal activity.
If you visit the Copper Canyon rail route, do not walk alone in the canyon or stray from the tourist trail. Complete all your activities within daylight hours. There is a risk you could be caught up in conflicts between rival organised crime groups operating in the area.
Sinaloa
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to the state of Sinaloa, except:
the cities of Los Mochis and Mazatlán
road 32 that runs between El Fuerte and Los Mochis
the 15D federal toll road that runs the length of the state
the Copper Canyon rail route to and from Los Mochis, El Fuerte and the towns immediately on this route
Armed robbery and vehicle theft has happened in El Fuerte. Avoid driving at night on the route between El Fuerte and Los Mochis.
There are high levels of drug cultivation in rural areas, leading to conflict between organised crime groups fighting for control.
Due to the presence of organised crime, there are high levels of drug-related violence. There are frequent gun battles between government security forces and organised crime groups, including in the city of Culiacán, leading to deaths and the destruction of security infrastructure.
Criminals do not usually target tourists, but you could be a victim of violence due to mistaken identity or on suspicion of spying for other organised criminal gangs – particularly if you are off the beaten tourist track.
Tamaulipas
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to the state of Tamaulipas, except:
the border crossing at Nuevo Laredo accessed from Monterrey by federal toll road 85D – you should travel during daylight hours
federal highways 80, 81 and 85 between Tampico, Ciudad de Victoria and Magueyes, and the entire area of Tamaulipas south of these highways
Tamaulipas is dangerous due to the presence of many organised crime groups who fight for control of drug trafficking routes. There is a risk of armed robbery and kidnap.
Zacatecas
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to the state of Zacatecas.
The state is extremely dangerous due to battles between organised crime groups for control of drug trafficking routes and rural areas of the state.
There are high levels of drug-related violence due to the strong presence of organised crime. Gun battles between state security forces and organised crime groups are frequent, leading to deaths and the destruction of security infrastructure.
East
There has been an increase in security incidents in the states of Tabasco and Veracruz, including the city of Veracruz. Illegal roadblocks are reported frequently. Be extremely cautious.
West and Central
Guanajuato
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to the areas south-west of the road 45D. This includes the cities of Celaya and Irapuato as well as the municipalities of:
Abasolo
Acámbaro
Cuerámaro
Huanímaro
Irapuato
Jaral del Progreso
Manuel Doblado
Moroleón
Pénjamo
Pueblo Nuevo
Purisima del Rincón
Romita
Salamanca
Salvatierra
San Francisco del Rincón
Santiago Maravatío
Silao de la Victoria
Uriangato
Valle de Santiago
Yuriria
Guanajuato is a drug trafficking route. There has been an increase in security incidents and drug-related violence in the state of Guanajuato. Fuel thefts from plants and pipelines also happen. Organised crime activity is rampant, particularly in the south of the state. Shootouts are of particular concern in the state of Guanajuato as they can happen in populated areas and bystanders have been caught in the crossfire.
Michoacán
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to the state of Michoacán, except the:
city of Morelia accessed by federal toll roads 15D, 126 and 43; and the federal toll road 48D between the city of Morelia and the General Francisco Mujica airport
town of Pátzcuaro accessed by federal toll roads 14D and 15 from Morelia, and boat trips out to islands on Lake Pátzcuaro
federal highway 15D
Michoacán is one of Mexico’s most violent states with high levels of organised crime and very little security presence. The state’s rural terrain makes it difficult for state security forces to respond to incidents.
There have been reports of local crime groups running illegal roadblocks and checkpoints in an attempt to control who enters and leaves. The Michoacán state government recommends foreign nationals to avoid this region.
Organised criminals are likely to be suspicious of foreign nationals in rural Michoacán. There is a high possibility of a misunderstanding resulting in violence. 
Jalisco
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to the areas south and south-west of Lake Chapala to the border state of Colima, specifically the municipalities of:
Acatlán de Juárez
Amacueca
Ameca
Atemajac de Brizuela
Atengo
Atenguillo
Atoyac
Autlán de Navarro
Ayutla
Casimiro Castillo
Chiquilistlán
Cocula
Cuautitlán de García Barragán
Cuautla
Ejutla
El Grullo
El Limón
Gómez Farias
Guachinango
Juchitlán
Mixtlán
San Gabriel
San Marcos
San Martín Hidalgo
Sayula
Tapalpa
Techaluta de Montenegro
Tecolotlán
Tenamaxtlán
Teocuitatlán de Corona
Tolimán
Tonaya
Tuxcacuesco
Tuxcueca
Unión de Tula
Villa Corona
Villa Purificación
Zacoalco de Torres
Zapotitlán de Vadill
Zapotlán el Grande
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to the northern municipalities of:
Bolaños
Chimaltitán
Colotlán
Hostotipaquillo
Huejúcar
Huequilla el Alto
Mezquitic
San Martin de Bolaños
Santa Maria de los Ángeles
Totatiche
Villa Guerrero
This is due to inaccessibility for security forces, lack of state control, drugs cultivation and high levels of violence between rival criminal groups.
Colima
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to the whole state of Colima, except the city of Manzanillo accessed by sea or by air via Manzanillo-Costalegre International Airport, and direct travel via road 200 from the airport to Manzanillo. Do not travel by other routes to the city of Manzanillo.
Colima has high levels of organised crime activity. Criminal organisations fight each other for control over the state, leading to gun battles on the streets of Colima City and throughout rural areas.
Guerrero, including Acapulco
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to the state of Guerrero, except the town of Zihuatanejo/Ixtapa accessed by air.
Guerrero is a violent state with a history of insecurity. Organised crime is present throughout the state, including in central Acapulco and Chilpancingo. Armed crime, including shootings and executions, has happened both in and outside tourist areas in Acapulco and other areas of the state.
In the aftermath of Hurricane Otis, normal work by local authorities to reduce risks to tourists in Acapulco’s tourist area has stopped while they focus on recovery efforts . There are reports of an increase in crime, robbery and looting across the city, including in previously designated tourist areas. Take extreme care if you travel to Acapulco.
Local crime groups control toll booths at illegal roadblocks. If you come across these, you will need cash to pay the fee so you can continue. If you’re driving in Guerrero, avoid travel after dark and use toll roads where possible, although you may still experience disruptions.
The interior of the state is dangerous. Organised crime groups and local ‘self-defence’ groups often exert control over territory. These groups are likely to be suspicious of foreign nationals in rural Guerrero. There is a high possibility of a misunderstanding resulting in violence. There has been armed crime in and outside tourist areas in the state.
Centre
Criminal activity is a problem in the state of Mexico (‘Estado de México’). Take care when travelling through the state, as well as outside of tourist areas. There has been:
armed robbery on public transport
vehicle theft on the highway
petty crime
South
Chiapas
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to within 40km of the Guatemalan border between the Pacific Coast up to and including the border crossing at Gracias a Dio.
FCDO advises against all but essential travel on Federal Highway 199 (Carretera Federal 199) between Rancho Nuevo (just outside San Cristobal de las Casas) and the Chancalá junction just outside Palenque (where Federal Highway 199 meets Federal Highway 307).
The border between Chiapas and Guatemala is dangerous due to the presence of many organised crime groups who fight for control of drug- and human-trafficking routes. Gangs do not usually target tourists, but you could be a victim of violence due to mistaken identity or on suspicion of spying for other organised criminal gangs. There is a risk of being caught in crossfire between rival organised crime groups.
Illegal roadblocks and checkpoints are reported frequently on Federal Highway 199 (Carretera Federal 199) between Rancho Nuevo, just outside San Cristobal de las Casas, and Palenque. Protests by indigenous groups often block the road. There is a risk of kidnapping.
