Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

There remain commercial options to return to the UK from Mexico.
If you live in the UK and are currently visiting Mexico, you’re strongly advised to return now by commercial means. Don’t run the risk of getting stranded.
UK special charter flights will only operate for priority countries where commercial flights are not possible. You should not assume that these flights will become available in countries where commercial routes are operating. Please do not contact the contracted travel management company if no flight is advertised here.
Flights
Various options remain to travel to the UK via the USA, Canada, France and the Netherlands. Please review our travel advice for any country you intend to transit or enter before booking any flights.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Restrictions
Please note that some airlines are imposing their own additional restrictions on travelers, different from the Mexican government guidelines. These restrictions may apply for domestic and international flights. Review the airline requirements carefully before purchasing any flights and before you travel.
The land border between the US and Mexico will close at midnight on Saturday 21st March to all non-essential traffic for 30 days. This closure applies primarily to tourism and recreational travel. Cargo, trade and healthcare workers will still be able to cross the border. Please check with your closest US Embassy/Consulate before attempting to cross the border.
Arrival in the UK
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Further information
Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British Embassy on Twitter and Facebook.
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
