Coronavirus guidance is being updated.
Read the Prime Minister’s statement for the latest information.

This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Mexico as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
The Coronavirus health emergency in Mexico continues, with Mexico City still on maximum alert. You can find further advice and information on the measures imposed in Mexico City on the Mexico City Government website.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Mexico to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Mexico
For information on entering Mexico, see Entry Requirements
People should remain at home wherever possible, and particularly the over 60s, those with underlying medical conditions, and pregnant women.
Hotels are no longer receiving reservations and only some hotels are authorised to offer limited accommodation to foreign nationals for humanitarian reasons. The Mexican Ministry of Tourism and Ministry of Health request that non-resident foreign nationals currently in Mexico return to their home countries immediately.
Follow the advice of the local authorities. Individual states in Mexico are imposing additional measures and restrictions; review local government websites for detailed information for where you are.
Health
If you present symptoms after having entered the country, you should call 800 0044 800. You will be attended by trained personnel of the Ministry of Health.
For specific helplines for the different states in Mexico, see the Mexican Government’s “Direct Line COVID-19” directory.
The app called “COVID-19MX”, created by the Mexican government, allows you to get a health test and locate your nearest medical facilities (including COVID Hospitals).
For further information (in Spanish), see the Mexican Ministry of Health website.
If you are in Mexico City, you can also send a free of charge text message saying “covid19” to 51515 (service only available in Spanish).
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Mexico.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Mexico, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
