!
Warning
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to parts of Mexico.

Your travel insurance could be invalidated if you travel against advice from the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO).
Areas where FCDO advises against all but essential travel
State of Baja California
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to the city of Tijuana, except:
airside transit through Tijuana airport
the Cross Border Xpress bridge from the airport linking terminals across the Mexican-US border
the federal toll road 1D and Via Rápida through Tijuana to the border
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to the city of Tecate in Baja California, including roads between Tijuana and Tecate.
There is another state called Baja California Sur that is unaffected by these warnings.
State of Chihuahua
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to the state of Chihuahua, except:
the city of Chihuahua
the border crossing in Ciudad Juárez (accessed by federal toll road 45)
federal toll road 45D connecting the cities of Chihuahua and Ciudad Juárez
the Copper Canyon rail route to and from Chihuahua and towns immediately on this route including Creel
the road from Creel via San Juanito to San Pedro
state highway 16 from San Pedro to Chihuahua
State of Sinaloa
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to the state of Sinaloa, except:
the cities of Los Mochis and Mazatlán
road 32 that runs between El Fuerte and Los Mochis
the 15D federal toll road that runs the length of the state
the Copper Canyon rail route to and from Los Mochis, El Fuerte and the towns immediately on this route
State of Tamaulipas
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to the state of Tamaulipas, except:
the border crossing at Nuevo Laredo accessed by federal toll road 85D from Monterrey
federal highways 80, 81 and 85 between Tampico, Ciudad de Victoria and Magueyes, and the entire area of Tamaulipas south of these highways
State of Zacatecas
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to the state of Zacatecas.
State of Guanajuato
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to the areas south-west of road 45D.
State of Michoacán
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to the state of Michoacán, except the:
city of Morelia accessed by federal toll roads 15D, 126 and 43; and the federal toll road 48D between the city of Morelia and the General Francisco Mujica airport
town of Pátzcuaro accessed by federal toll roads 14D and 15 from Morelia, and boat trips out to islands on Lake Pátzcuaro
Federal Highway 15D
State of Jalisco
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to the areas south and south-west of Lake Chapala to the border with the state of Colima.
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to the northern municipalities of:
Bolaños
Chimaltitán
Colotlán
Hostotipaquillo
Huejúcar
Huequilla el Alto
Mezquitic
San Martin de Bolaños
Santa Maria de los Ángeles
Totatiche
Villa Guerrero
State of Colima
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to the state of Colima, except the city of Manzanillo accessed by sea or air via the Manzanillo-Costalegre International Airport, and direct travel via road 200 from the airport to Manzanillo.
State of Guerrero
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to the state of Guerrero, except the town of Zihuatanejo/Ixtapa accessed by air.
State of Chiapas
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to within 40km of the Guatemalan border between the Pacific Coast up to and including the border crossing at Gracias a Dio.
FCDO advises against all but essential travel on Federal Highway 199 (Carretera Federal 199) between Rancho Nuevo (just outside San Cristobal de las Casas) and the Chancalá junction just outside Palenque (where Federal Highway 199 meets Federal Highway 307).
Find out more about why FCDO advises against travel to these areas.
Hurricane Beryl
Hurricane conditions are expected from the evening of 4 July along the coast of the Yucatan Peninsula, as a result of Hurricane Beryl. A hurricane warning has been announced for the entire east coast of the Yucatan, including Cancun, Tulum, Cozumel, and Playa del Carmen. A tropical storm warning is in place across the north and west coast of the Yucatan, from Campeche to Holbox.
You should closely monitor local and international weather updates from the US National Hurricane Center, or the Mexican Meteorological Service (in Spanish).
 Follow the advice of local authorities and your tour operator, including any evacuation orders. If you’re due to travel in the coming days, keep in contact with your tour operator and/or airline.
You should keep up to date with the status of local transport. Flights, including from Cancun Airport, may be cancelled at short notice. Tulum Airport will be closed until 7 July at 12:00 local time. Ferry services are suspended and are expected to resume on Saturday 6 July. Bus services are suspended until further notice.
Click on the links for information about hurricane shelters in: Quintana Roo, Merida, and Yucatan. 
Keep up to date with FCDO travel advice and social media. You can sign up for our email alert service to be notified of any updates to our travel advice.
See extreme weather and natural hazards for advice about how to prepare for travel during hurricane season and what to do ahead of a storm.
Before you travel
No travel can be guaranteed safe. Read all the advice in this guide and any specific travel advice that applies to you: 
women travellers
disabled travellers
LGBT+ travellers
solo and independent travel
volunteering and adventure travel
Travel insurance
If you choose to travel, research your destinations and get appropriate travel insurance. Insurance should cover your itinerary, planned activities and expenses in an emergency.
About FCDO travel advice
FCDO provides advice about risks of travel to help British nationals make informed decisions. Find out more about FCDO travel advice.
Follow and contact FCDO travel on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram. You can also sign up to get email notifications when this advice is updated.
