Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Togo on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
You should contact local authorities for information on testing facilities (available in French only).
International travel
Commercial flights to and from Togo remain very limited. Check with your travel company for the latest information.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Togo.
Returning to the UK
Travelling from and returning to the UK
Check what you must do to travel abroad and return to England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
If you plan to pass through another country to return to the UK, check the travel advice for the country you’re transiting.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Togo
Travel around the whole of the country is permitted.
Accommodation
Hotels in Togo are generally open.
Public places and services
The wearing of face masks in public is mandatory including for children aged 5 years old and above.
The following measures will come into effect from 10 September 2021 for a one month period:
Cultural, sporting and political events are banned
Civil, religious and traditional marriage celebrations
Places of worship are closed
Only 15 people may attend burials, authorisation must be obtained from the local prefet before a burial can take place
Bar and nightclubs may be closed
In-person meetings and workshops are banned
Proof of vaccination is required to enter public administrative buildings. (See ‘Demonstrating your COVID-19 status’)
Health
Unlike in the UK, you will need to go to a pharmacy to obtain most over-the-counter medicines. They are not sold in supermarkets in Togo. Where possible, purchase known brands. Pharmacies are widely available and are usually identified by a green cross. They will accept prescriptions from the UK.
Anyone with concerns about coronavirus should call the government hotline on +228 91674242 or +228 22222073. There is also a freephone information number on 111. For more up-to-date information, in French, about the situation in Togo check the government website.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Togo.
Testing positive for COVID-19 in Togo
COVID-19 test results are sent via an SMS text message or email.
Those who test positive must isolate at a government appointed facility at their own cost. You will need to isolate for 14 days.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Togo
We will update this page when the Government of Togo announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Togolese national vaccination programme started in March 2021 and is currently using the Astra/Zeneca and the Sinopharm Véro Cell vaccines. The Government of Togo has stated that British nationals resident in Togo are eligible for vaccination if they choose to join the programme. Official information about the national vaccination programme, including your eligibility can be found on the Togolese Government website (information in French).
If you have received both doses of your COVID-19 vaccine in Togo, the Togolese Government will give you a ‘PasseCOVID’ certificate to show you have had them. For further information visit Togolese Government website (in French) or via mobile by dialling *844#
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in Togo, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
