This page has information on travelling to Togo. Check what you must do to return to the UK.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport from the UK, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Togo set and enforce entry rules.
All travellers
Land borders are closed until further notice.
All passengers arriving in Togo must have a negative PCR test result dated no more than 7 days before departure.
In addition, at least 24 hours before arrival all travellers (except for transit passengers who remain airside) must complete an online immigration and health form and pay for a COVID-19 test (on the same website) to be taken on arrival at Eyadema Gnassingbe International Airport. The cost of the test is CFA 25,000 payable by credit/debit card or mobile money. You will need a print-out of the electronic receipt to be allowed to board the aircraft.
Travellers must self-isolate at their own accommodation until the second PCR test results are received within 24 to 48 hours by email.
You will need a visa to enter or travel through Togo as a visitor. You are advised to get a visa before travel. Visas issued on arrival in Togo are limited to 7 days and getting an extension can be time-consuming. For more information and advice, contact the Embassy of Togo in London.
If you’re fully vaccinated
Entry requirements for Togo are the same for all travellers, regardless of COVID-19 vaccination status. See All travellers.
Proof of vaccination status
Togo will accept the UK’s digital proof of COVID-19 vaccination record. They will not accept the UK’s letter version or proof of recovery. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
If you’re not fully vaccinated
Entry requirements for Togo are the same for all travellers, regardless of COVID-19 vaccination status. See All travellers.
Children and young people
Entry requirements for Togo are the same for all travellers, including children and young people. See All travellers.
If you’re transiting through Togo
Transiting is when you pass through one country on the way to your final destination.
If you are transiting through Togo on your way to another country and staying airside at the airport you need to have a negative PCR test result dated no more than 7 days before departure. You should only complete an online immigration and health form and pay for a further COVID-19 on arrival at Eyadema Gnassingbe International Airport if you need to leave the airside zone.
Exemptions
There are no exemptions to Togo’s entry requirements.
Compassionate reasons
Please contact the Embassy of Togo in London if you need to travel at short notice for compassionate reasons.
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
Passport validity
If you are visiting Togo, your passport should be valid for six months from the date you arrive.
If you are a resident in Togo, your passport must be valid for six months from the date you arrive.
Check with your travel provider to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Visas
British passport holders need a visa to enter Togo. You are advised to get a visa before travel. Visas issued on arrival in Togo are limited to 7 days and getting an extension can be time-consuming. For more information and advice, contact the Embassy of Togo in London.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are accepted for entry to and exit from Togo.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
Returning to the UK
All travellers departing Togo must complete an online immigration and health form and pay for a COVID-19 test (on the same website). Travellers must take a PCR test within 72 hours before their departure.
The cost of the test is CFA 25,000 payable by credit/debit card or mobile money. You will need a print-out of the electronic receipt and test results to be allowed to board the aircraft.
Check what you must do to return to the UK.
