Coronavirus guidance is being updated.
Read the Prime Minister’s address for the latest information.

There remain commercial options available on Ethiopian Airlines to return to the UK from Togo. If you are usually based in the UK, you are strongly advised to return to the UK now by commercial means. Don’t run the risk of getting stranded.
Air France has operated several special flights for repatriation purposes after its final commercial flight but no further flights are confirmed at this time. If further flights are announced, these will likely become available at short notice.
UK special charter flights will only operate for priority countries where commercial flights are not possible. You should not assume these flights will become available in countries where commercial routes are operating. Please do not contact the contracted travel management company if no flight is advertised here.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK.
For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
What to do
If you’re unable to leave at this time, you should:
follow the advice of local authorities, including local measures to help minimise your risk of exposure to coronavirus (COVID-19)
find accommodation that’s suitable for your needs
keep up-to-date with our travel advice and the latest information from transport providers and local authorities on your departure options
keep in regular contact with family and friends at home, so they know you are safe and well
See more information and advice about staying where you are if you cannot return to the UK.
Your journey home
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance whilst you remain in Togo, you can contact the British High Commission in Accra on +233 302 213 250. However consular support is very limited in Togo.
To get the latest information, sign up for travel advice email alerts.
and-others) on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
