!
Warning
FCDO advises against all travel to parts of Togo.

Terrorism 
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.    
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Togo
Terrorists are very likely to try and carry out attacks in Togo.
The main threat is from Al-Qaida in the Islamic Magreb (AQIM) and its associated groups, who are active mainly in the northern region of the country near the Burkina Faso border. However, attacks could be indiscriminate, including in places frequented by foreign nationals, such as:
beach resorts
hotels
cafés and restaurants
government buildings
military bases and security installations
Stay aware of your surroundings, keep up to date with local media reports and follow the advice of local authorities.
Political situation
Togo will hold regional and legislative elections on 29 April. During this period, British nationals should exercise heightened security awareness, avoid large crowds, monitor local media and follow curfews set by the Togolese authorities. If you’re in an area when a demonstration happens, leave immediately.
The cities of Sokodé, Bafilo and Mango have a history of violent demonstrations where protesters and security forces have been injured and killed.
Togo-Burkina Faso border
FCDO advises against all travel to within 5km of the border with Burkina Faso, due to the security situation in Burkina Faso and the risk of kidnapping in the region.
Togo’s other borders
Togo’s borders can close at short notice. The Government of Togo has announced that all international land borders will be closed on 29 April, the date of the national election. Air travel will be unaffected by this land border closure.
Crime
Violent crime, theft and pickpocketing are common in Togo, particularly on the beaches and markets of Lomé. Attacks take place during the day and at night.
You can protect yourself and your belongings by:
not travelling alone, especially at night
not carrying valuables or large amounts of cash with you
making sure purses and bags are closed and not easy to grab
There have also been reports of carjackings. Armed criminals may stage a traffic accident so they can flag down vehicles.
Scams
Scam artists target foreign visitors and residents. The scams come in many forms – romance and friendship, business ventures, work and employment opportunities – and can cause financial loss. Warn your friends and family to be sceptical if they’re asked to transfer funds to you in Togo. Tell them to contact you to check you’ve made this request.
Laws and cultural differences
Personal ID
Carry a copy of the photo page of your passport with you at all times. Make sure you’re able to access the original quickly if needed.
Illegal drugs and prison sentences
Possession, use or trafficking of illegal drugs is a serious offence and can result in fines and a prison sentence.
Using cameras in secure areas
It’s illegal to take photographs of or near sensitive or official sites such as:
military installations
government buildings
airport buildings
LGBT+ travellers
Same-sex sexual relationships are illegal in Togo and penalties are severe. You could be fined or given a prison sentence.
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Money
Togo is a cash-based society so bring enough cash with you to cover your visit. Credit cards are not widely accepted. Some hotels and restaurants will accept credit cards, but card-paying machines are not reliable so you may be asked to pay in cash.
Some ATMs in the capital, Lomé, accept international cards and dispense local currency.     
Outdoor activities
Swimming safety
Ocean currents are very strong along the coast and there are a number of drownings each year. Dangerous beaches are unlikely to have warning signs. Follow local advice before swimming.
See water safety on holiday from the Royal Life Saving Society.
Transport risks
Road travel
If you are planning to drive in Togo, see information on driving abroad.
 
You can use a UK photocard driving licence to drive in Togo for up to 6 months. If you still have a paper driving licence, you may need to update it to a photocard licence.
If you’re staying for longer than 6 months, you’ll need get the 1949 version of the international driving permit (IDP). You cannot buy an IDP outside the UK, so get one before you travel.
Hire car companies often have stricter requirements for their customers, such as a year of driving experience, a higher minimum age and holding an IDP. 
Drink-driving is a serious offence in Togo. There are no set blood alcohol content limits, but if traffic control officers suspect you of drink-driving they can order a medical exam. Punishments range from a fine and a prison sentence of one to 3 years.
Road conditions
Roads outside towns and cities are poorly lit. During the rainy season, minor unpaved roads may be blocked.
You may encounter official and unofficial roadblocks. Stop at control points if asked. Turn on your interior vehicle lights and only continue when you’re told you can.
Driving standards in Togo are poor and add to the risk of accidents. Public transport vehicles can be poorly maintained and are often driven over the speed limit.
Sea travel
There have been incidents of piracy and armed robbery against large vessels in Togolese waters and those of neighbouring countries. Mariners should take appropriate precautions.
