The information on this page covers the most common types of travel and reflects the UK government’s understanding of the rules currently in place. Unless otherwise stated, this information is for travellers using a full ‘British Citizen’ passport.
The authorities in the country or territory you’re travelling to are responsible for setting and enforcing the rules for entry. If you’re unclear about any aspect of the entry requirements, or you need further reassurance, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
You should also consider checking with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Visas
British passport holders don’t need a visa to travel to Macedonia for up to 3 months.
Holders of UK Refugee Travel Documents travelling to Macedonia or transiting the country en-route to Kosovo, must obtain visas for travel to, or transit through, Macedonia from the Macedonian Embassy in London.
If you plan to stay for longer than 3 months, contact the Macedonian Embassy in London.
Unaccompanied minors (children under 18) must have a letter of consent from their parents or guardian. Failure to do so may result into refusal of entry and deportation.
Passport validity
Passports and other documents accepted for entry must be valid for a minimum of 90 days from the arrival date.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents are accepted for entry, airside transit and exit from Macedonia. However, they must have at least 3 months validity.
Registering with the police
You must register with the local police in the town/city where you are staying within 24 hours of your arrival in Macedonia, unless you are in a hotel in which case you will be registered automatically on checking-in.
If you don’t register you may receive a fine of between 600 and 1,000 Euros, and be detained or face a court appearance (which may include a restriction on your ability to return to Macedonia).
Travel to Serbia
Foreign nationals, including those from the United Kingdom, have sometimes been denied entry into the Republic of Serbia from Macedonia if they hold entry/exit stamps from Kosovo.
