At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
There is a reciprocal healthcare agreement for British nationals, which entitles you to free emergency treatment in Macedonia. You will need to present your passport and an European Health Insurance Card as proof of entitlement. The health system in all parts of Macedonia is suffering from widespread shortage of medicines and other essentials and you may need to pay some of the initial costs (usually between 50 and 100 Euros). If the treatment is not deemed an emergency then you will have to pay the full cost yourself. Make sure you have adequate travel and medical insurance.
Mosquito-borne diseases including West Nile virus are present in Macedonia.
High levels of air pollution in cities, especially in winter, can affect public health. Children, the elderly and those with pre-existing medical conditions may be especially affected. You can find further information and advice on air quality on the World Health Organization (WHO) website. Keep up to date with local information and seek medical advice on appropriate precautions.
