Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Pitcairn Islands on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Pitcairn Island to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Pitcairn Island.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Pitcairn Island
There are only two metalled roads on Pitcairn. Other roads are dirt tracks. Transport around the island is by quad bike or on foot. All quad bikes are privately owned and therefore most visitors travel on foot. Longer-term visitors who propose using a quad bike need to pass a short quad bike driving test before a licence will be issued by the island Police Officer.
Accommodation
There are no hotels but self-catering and homestay accommodation with local families is available.
Healthcare
Pitcairn Island has a modern and well-equipped medical clinic and a resident doctor, but you should note that the nearest hospital facilities are in French Polynesia or New Zealand, at least 2 days’ sail away. There are no airport facilities on Pitcairn, meaning that evacuation in a medical emergency is not always possible.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Pitcairn Island.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Pitcairn Island
The UK Government has been supplying vaccines to the people of the UK’s Overseas Territories. The Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) is the UK authority responsible for assessing the safety, quality and efficacy of vaccines. MHRA has temporarily authorised under Regulation 174 of Human Medicines Regulations 2012, the Pfizer/BioNTech and Astra Zeneca COVID-19 vaccine for supply in the UK, Crown Dependencies and Overseas Territories for use in Pitcairn Further information on the vaccine programme in Pitcairn can be found at https://www.gov.uk/world/pitcairn-island.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
If you need urgent assistance, see Summary
