This page has information on travelling to Pitcairn Island.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport from the UK, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Pitcairn Island set and enforce entry rules. If you’re unsure how Pitcairn Island’s entry requirements apply to you, contact its UK embassy, high commission or consulate.
All travellers
All travellers should familiarise themselves with the entry rules for Pitcairn Island before travel.
If you’re fully vaccinated
Pitcairn Island will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 recovery and vaccination record and proof of COVID-19 vaccination issued in the Crown Dependencies. Your final vaccine dose must have been administered at least 14 days prior to travel. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
In addition to being fully vaccinated, there are other requirements regarding PCR and RAT testing prior to embarkation and landing. These requirements are different depending on how you travel to Pitcairn. Details are available on the Pitcairn Island Government website.
If you’re not fully vaccinated
If you’re not fully vaccinated, you will not be allowed entry to Pitcairn.
Children and young people
Minors who do not qualify for vaccination in their home country are exempt from the requirement to provide proof of vaccination and can enter Pitcairn.
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
Check with your travel provider to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Passport validity
You must hold a valid passport to enter Pitcairn. Your passport must be valid for the proposed duration of your stay. No additional period of validity beyond this is needed. 
Visas
If you’re an adult wishing to stay on Pitcairn Island for up to 14 days, you do not need a visa prior to arrival. The immigration officer assesses applications for short-term visitors to Pitcairn upon arrival. If you wish to stay on Pitcairn for more than 14 days you must contact the immigration officer on PitcairnIslandimmigration@pitcairn.gov.pn before making any plans to travel.  Without valid entry clearance, the immigration officer will not grant access to Pitcairn. Further details are available on the Pitcairn Island government website.
Yellow fever
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
Travelling with children
Visitors wishing to travel to Pitcairn for more than 14 days with children under 16 years should contact the immigration officer on Pitcairn Island: immigration@pitcairn.gov.pn before making plans to travel. An entry clearance application will need to be completed for any child wishing to visit the island.
Owing to limited medical facilities on Pitcairn Island, the FCDO doesn’t currently allow its staff or contracted staff based on Pitcairn to be accompanied by their children.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK emergency travel documents are valid for entry, exit and transit onto Pitcairn.
