

Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.    
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism on Pitcairn Island
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism on Pitcairn Island, attacks cannot be ruled out.
Crime
Crime against visitors is uncommon.
Laws and cultural differences
Pitcairn Island is a British Overseas Territory and has its own laws. 
Alcohol laws
It is illegal to import or sell alcohol without a licence.
It is also illegal to drink alcohol in a number of public places, including but not limited to all roads, the Landing, the Public Square and the Western Harbour.
Religion
The main religion on Pitcairn is Seventh Day Adventism, and the Sabbath is observed on Saturday. All religions are welcome in the church.
Grocery store
There is one grocery store on Pitcairn Island, which is open for 2 hours on Sundays, Tuesdays and Thursdays.
Accommodation
There are no hotels but self-catering and homestay accommodation with local families is available. You must book accommodation in advance in order to travel to Pitcairn.
Mobile network and internet
There is no mobile phone network on Pitcairn. VoIP calls are possible but only from people’s houses.   
Internet facilities are available to the public at the Landing and outside the grocery store, and at most homes on the island through Starlink. Homestay guests will normally have access to local wifi facilities, possibly at additional cost.
LGBT+ travellers
Same-sex marriage has been legal on Pitcairn Island since 2015.
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Outdoor activities and adventure tourism      
Pitcairn Island has walking trails with varying degrees of difficulty. Trails to Down Rope, Tautama and Christian’s Cave are narrow, slippery and not well marked – you should only go on these trails if an islander comes with you.
Cliffs on Pitcairn are unstable and may crumble. 
See water safety on holiday from the Royal Life Saving Society.
It can take days and possibly weeks to get medical treatment if you’re seriously injured during outdoor activities. Serious cases require medical evacuation by boat to Mangareva and then flight to Tahiti, or boat/flight to New Zealand, due to limited medical facilities on Pitcairn.
Transport risks
Road travel
There are a limited number of concrete roads on Pitcairn, mostly in Adamstown. Other roads are dirt tracks.
People walk or use quad bikes to get around. Most visitors walk because all quad bikes are privately owned. Longer-term visitors who want to use a quad bike must pass a short driving test, set by the Police Officer, to get a licence.
Air travel
You cannot travel to Pitcairn by air. Pitcairn is visited around 20 times a year by a supply ship, the Silver Supporter, travelling from the island of Mangareva in French Polynesia. See the Pitcairn Islands Tourism website for shipping service information, including sailing dates and passenger fares.
Transferring by longboat
There is no harbour or jetty on Pitcairn. Visitors transfer from the Silver Supporter supply ship to Pitcairn in a longboat. This can be difficult in poor weather, particularly for people with limited mobility. Crew provide life jackets, full instructions and help during the transfer.
Visitors coming ashore from cruise liners normally use the vessels’ own tenders. 
Extreme weather and natural disasters
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards.
There is a risk of landslides or rockfalls on Pitcairn following heavy rain.
Cyclones do not normally affect Pitcairn.
