The Pitcairn Islands group is a British Overseas Territory. It comprises the islands of Pitcairn, Henderson, Ducie and Oeno. Pitcairn is the only inhabited island.
Travel to Pitcairn Island is subject to entry restrictions
Pitcairn Island has closed its borders. No vessels apart from the Islands supply vessel are permitted to land.
Only returning residents and those who will be temporarily resident on Pitcairn Island for reasons of work are permitted to travel on the supply vessel during its 14 day journey between New Zealand and Pitcairn. All these individuals must follow Pitcairn Island’s coronavirus protocols, which include pre-departure testing.
Pitcairn Island is free of coronavirus, and has been for the duration of the global pandemic.
See Entry requirements for more information before you plan to travel.
Returning to the UK
Pitcairn Island is on the green list for entering England. Check what you must do to enter England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
If your return journey to the UK transits another country, you should check whether it is subject to a travel ban or any other additional requirements. If so, contact your travel provider.
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
If you’re planning travel to Pitcairn Island , find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCDO guidance on foreign travel insurance.
For information about COVID-19 vaccines, see the Coronavirus page.
Pitcairn Island is a British Overseas Territory. There is no formal British diplomatic representation on the island and the local authorities deal with all requests for consular assistance. In the event of any problems, contact the island’s Administrator at administrator@pitcairn.gov.pn. Consular assistance is extremely limited and medical facilities are also limited.
If you wish to stay on Pitcairn for more than 14 days, you must contact the immigration officer on Pitcairn Island: immigration@pitcairn.gov.pn before making any plans to travel. See Entry Requirements
There is no access to the island by air. Details of the shipping service to Pitcairn can be found on the Pitcairn Islands Tourism website. Transfer between the ship and the island is by longboat and can be difficult in poor weather. There are no hotels but self-catering and homestay accommodation with local families is available.
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Pitcairn Island, attacks can not be ruled out. See Terrorism
Medical facilities are limited. See Health.
