Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Oman on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
A limited schedule of international flights has resumed but there are no direct flights between Oman and the UK. Travellers who have been in or transited through the United Kingdom in the previous 14 days cannot enter Oman, with the exception of Omani citizens.
British citizens with valid residence permits can enter Oman, unless they have been in or transited the United Kingdom in the previous 14 days.
British nationals over the age of 16 must:
take a PCR test no more than 72 hours before arrival in Oman;
complete an online pre-registration form;
have proof of hotel accommodation for mandatory self-isolation (booked through the HMushrif app);
travel/health insurance which covers at least 30 days of COVID-19 treatment;
take a PCR test on landing;
complete 7 days self-isolation; and
take a PCR test on day 8.
If you are aged 18 or over, you should self-isolate at a hotel in Oman at your own expense. This must be booked via the HMushrif app.
Exceptions are in place if you are 60 years of age or over or have a document from your health provider stating that for medical reasons you cannot self-isolate in a hotel. You are also exempt if you are under 18 years old and travelling unaccompanied. In these circumstances you must self-isolate at home for 7 days.
If your test on day 8 is negative, there is no need to continue self-isolating.
You should stay in touch with your airline, hotel and monitor local media before you travel.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Oman.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements. You should contact the Ministry of Health (24441999) or the aviation authorities for information on testing facilities.
From 8 June, direct flights can arrive in England from Oman, but they must arrive at dedicated terminals at Heathrow and Birmingham airports. Different requirements may apply for arrivals into Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Oman
Restrictions on road travel within Oman, including police checkpoints, might be introduced at short notice. You should monitor local news sources or official social media accounts (including the Oman VS COVID19 twitter account) for the latest information. Always follow the instructions of the local authorities.
Failure to follow these instructions could result in a fine and/or prosecution.
Accommodation
Hotels are open (though hotel amenities are subject to COVID-19 restrictions). Contact your travel agent, or hotels direct, to find out what rules are in place during your stay.
Public places and services
The Omani government has stated that no public gatherings should take place, and masks should be worn in public places.
You should be aware that public places may have limited access or could be subject to temporary closure by the authorities at short notice, across Oman.
A movement ban (on people and vehicles) is currently in force between 8pm and 4am Oman time. From Friday 16 July to Saturday 31 July, no movement will be allowed between 5pm and 4am Oman time, except during the Eid Al Adha public holiday from 20 to 23 July when no movement will be permitted at all.
There is no movement ban in Musandam governorate but residents wanting to visit must have had at least one vaccination. Non-residents wishing to visit must be fully vaccinated. The same vaccination requirements are also in force for anyone wanting to visit Dhofar governorate.
Healthcare in Oman
If you think you have COVID-19 symptoms, you should call the Ministry of Health in Oman on +968 2444 1999. They will advise you on next steps, local testing facilities, etc. You should also speak to your healthcare provider and/or insurance company.
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Oman.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Oman
Wherever possible British nationals should aim to be vaccinated in the country where they live. As further information is available about the national vaccination programme, this page will be updated. Sign up to get email notifications.
The Omani government expects sponsors to facilitate COVID-19 vaccinations for their expatriate employees and dependents. If you are resident in Oman, you should check with your sponsor what plans they have in place for vaccinations.
Alternatively, you can register to be vaccinated at personal expense, at any private medical clinic administering COVID-19 vaccines.
The Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) is the UK authority responsible for assessing the safety, quality and efficacy of vaccines. It has authorised the Pfizer/BioNTech, Oxford/AstraZeneca and Moderna vaccines for temporary supply and use in the UK. Find out more about MHRA approval for these vaccines.
British nationals living overseas should seek medical advice from their local healthcare provider in the country where they reside. Information about vaccines used in other national programmes, including regulatory status, should be available from the local authorities. This list of Stringent Regulatory Authorities recognised by the World Health Organisation may also be a useful source of additional information. Find out more about COVID-19 vaccines on the World Health Organisation COVID-19 vaccines page.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
