This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Oman set and enforce entry rules. For further information contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to. You should also consider checking with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Entry rules in response to coronavirus
If you are unsure if you meet the requirements (or consider you have exceptional circumstances) to enter Oman please speak to your nearest Oman Embassy and/or your sponsor in Oman.
British nationals arriving in Oman from the UK must:
present a certificate with QR code confirming a negative PCR test result (for flights shorter than 8 hours, this test must be taken no more than 72 hours before arrival in Oman; for flights longer than 8 hours, this test must be taken no more than 96 hours before arrival in Oman)
before arrival, complete a pre-registration form at the eMushrif website and upload COVID-19 vaccine certification and PCR test result, both containing QR codes. There may be a small charge for completion of this form. (See ‘Demonstrating your COVID-19 status’)
have proof of travel/health insurance which covers at least 30 days of COVID-19 treatment.
If you do not have evidence of a negative PCR result or a QR code on your PCR test result, it is our understanding you will be required to pay for and take a PCR test upon arrival. You should pay for this in advance on the eMushrif website. On arrival you will be required to pay for and wear an electronic tracking bracelet and self-isolate until you receive a negative test result. If you receive a positive test result, you will be required to self-isolate for ten days starting from the date of the test.
If you are unable to meet the Omani authorities’ requirements for proof of vaccine, or you have not been vaccinated, you must:
present a certificate with QR code confirming a negative PCR test result (for flights shorter than 8 hours, this test must be taken no more than 72 hours before arrival in Oman; for flights longer than 8 hours, this test must be taken no more than 96 hours before arrival in Oman)
take a PCR test upon arrival. You should pay for this in advance on the eMushrif website
pay for and wear an electronic tracking bracelet and self-isolate until you receive a negative test result. If you receive a positive test result, you will be required to self-isolate for ten days starting from the date of the test
comply with institutional quarantine for 7 days, booked in advance through the eMushrif website
take a PCR test on the 8th day
British nationals (excluding healthcare workers) who have visited South Africa, Namibia, Botswana, Zimbabwe, Lesotho, Eswatini and Mozambique in the last 14 days (including transit) will not be permitted to enter Oman. If you are a healthcare worker, and therefore exempt from this rule, you will be required to take a PCR test on arrival in Oman and undertake 7 day institutional quarantine (booked in advance through the eMushrif website on arrival, followed by another PCR test on the 8th day.
If you need further clarification of the vaccine requirements for entry to Oman, you should contact your nearest Oman Embassy and, or your airline.
If you have recovered from COVID-19 and have a positive PCR test result, you will be required to show proof that you have completed the required isolation period in the country you have travelled from.
British nationals aged 18 and under are not required to show evidence of COVID-19 vaccine or PCR test, or register on the Tarassud+ application.
British nationals with a medical exemption preventing you from taking the COVID-19 vaccination should carry proof of this when travelling. You will not be required to present a COVID-19 vaccination certificate but will still be required to follow the applicable rules on PCR testing.
Approved COVID-19 vaccinations in Oman are: AstraZeneca (Vaxzevria and Covishield), Pfizer-BioNTech, Moderna, Janssen (Johnson and Johnson), Sinovac, Sinopharm, Sputnik V and Covaxin.
Your airline may have rules that conflict with those set out by the Omani authorities (e.g. requiring you to provide a negative PCR test before boarding).
Demonstrating your COVID-19 status
Oman will only accept the UK’s letter version of proof of COVID-19 recovery and vaccination record. They will not accept digital proof. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
Travel by land
To cross into Oman by land, you must:
present a certificate with QR code confirming you are fully vaccinated with one of the COVID-19 vaccines approved for use in Oman. The last dose must have been administered no less than 14 days before your arrival in Oman. (See ‘Demonstrating your COVID-19 status’)
present a certificate with QR code confirming a negative PCR test result (taken no more than 72 hours before arrival in Oman)
before arrival, complete a pre-registration form at the eMushrif website and upload your COVID-19 vaccine certification and PCR test result, both containing QR codes. There may be a small charge for completion of this form
Data collection
Prior to travelling, you should download the Tarassud+ track and trace application and the HMushrif application if possible.
Testing on departure
On departure you will have your temperature checked. If you show symptoms of coronavirus, you may be prevented from travelling. You must also comply with whatever the entry and testing requirements are at the country you intend to travel to.
Regular entry requirements
Visas
See ‘entry rules in response to coronavirus’ section.
British nationals need a visa to enter Oman. Visit visas are available on arrival at the airport, however it is recommended that you apply for a visa before you travel. Applications can be made through the Royal Oman Police portal. If you are travelling as a tourist, you can apply for an unsponsored visa. For all other visas, please follow the guidance on the portal or talk to your sponsor/employer in Oman.
Passport validity
Your passport should have at least 6 months’ validity remaining on your date of entry to Oman.
Oman doesn’t recognise dual nationality. If you hold both British and Oman nationalities and this becomes known to the Omani authorities, they may confiscate your Omani or British passport.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are valid for entry, exit and transit in Oman however they must have at least 6 months’ remaining validity. Residents and tourists will need to get an exit stamp before leaving. If you are exiting on an ETD because your full validity passport has been lost or stolen, you must obtain a police report in order to exit Oman. This report can be obtained at the Lost Passport Reporting Office, Royal Oman Police Civil Status Office nearest you. You should allow sufficient time to collect this report as it can take up to two days to be processed. Without this report you may experience difficulties at the airport, including being prevented from leaving on your booked flight.
Check your passport carefully to make sure it’s legal and valid so that you don’t need an ETD.
Travelling with medication
Some prescribed and over the counter medicines available in the UK are banned substances in Oman. If you’re travelling to Oman with prescription drugs, carry a copy of the prescription. For further information, check with Oman’s Ministry of Health well in advance of travel.
