At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist are available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. If you’re travelling to Oman with prescription drugs, carry a copy of the prescription. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Coronavirus
There is an ongoing outbreak of coronavirus (COVID-19). The virus originated in China, but cases have been confirmed in other countries, including Oman.
The Omani government has announced that anyone who entered Oman from 2 March 2020 is required to self-quarantine for 14 days. Failure to follow these instructions could result in prosecution.
The Omani government has also announced that from 18 March, the following places will be closed across Oman: mosques and other places of worship; events and conferences; all tourist sites (including wadis and picnic areas); all shops in shopping malls (except supermarkets, clinics, pharmacies and opticians); souqs and other traditional markets; restaurants and cafes (including in hotels) except for takeaway; gyms, spas and hairdressers. The government has stated that no public gatherings, including on beaches, should take place.
You should comply with any additional screening measures put in place by the local authorities. If you have any questions about these measures or the quarantine instructions, you can call the Ministry of Health in Oman on +968 2444 1999.
Further advice is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
You can find more information about cases in Oman on the TravelHealthPro country page.
Local medical care
Healthcare facilities in Oman are similar to those in the UK. British nationals are required to use the private healthcare system. Visitors who don’t have travel insurance or the means to settle any charges may be prevented from leaving the country until the debt is paid. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 9999 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
The heat can be extreme and deaths have occurred due to dehydration and heat exhaustion. When hiking in Oman be sure to follow marked hiking trails.
