Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

There are currently no commercial options available to return to the UK from Oman. Oman suspended all international flights on Sunday 29 March and land borders are closed.
We know this is concerning for British people trying to leave Oman. The UK government is working closely with the airlines, the Omani authorities and British companies exploring private repatriation for their staff, to make sure options are available for you to return to the UK as soon as possible.
What to do
If you cannot leave Oman at this time, you should:
follow the advice of the local authorities, including local measures to help minimise your risk of exposure to coronavirus
find accommodation that’s suitable for your needs
keep in regular contact with family and friends at home, so they know you are safe and well
See more information and advice about staying where you are if you cannot return to the UK.
Future travel options
The UK government is working closely with the airlines, the Omani authorities and British companies exploring private repatriation for their staff, to make sure options are available for you to return to the UK as soon as possible.
This travel advice will be updated when departure options become available.
Following the flight to the UK on 10 April, it is possible there may be availability on a commercial flight from Muscat to Frankfurt, Germany on 30 April. If you are a British national and wish to take advantage of this flight, please contact the British Embassy Muscat at muscat.enquiries@fco.gov.uk by 12:00 local time on 28 April 2020. The Embassy will then pass on your details to the commercial carrier who will administer the booking and payment (subject to availability). Passengers have to make their own onward arrangements from Frankfurt. For each person in your party please provide:
Name
Passport number
Current location
Contact details (email and telephone, if possible)
Reason for departure
Details of any other nationalities you hold
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Arrival in the UK
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British Embassy in Muscat on +968 2460 9000.
The Embassy cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone. This page will be updated when departure options become available.
Visas
The Royal Oman Police has confirmed that visitors to Oman who could not leave the country owing to the closure of borders will not be penalised for overstaying their visas.
If you have any questions on the validity or expiry of your visa, contact the Royal Oman Police directly.
Further information
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
