

Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.    
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Oman
Terrorist attacks in Oman cannot be ruled out.
Attacks could be indiscriminate including in places visited by foreigners.
Terrorists have threatened to carry out attacks in the Gulf region, including on:
Residential compounds
Military, oil, transport and aviation interests
Public places, including restaurants, hotels, beaches, shopping centres and places of worship
Stay aware of your surroundings, keep up to date with local media reports and follow the advice of local authorities.
Examples of significant incidents include: 
in July 2024, 6 people were killed and others injured in a shooting incident in the vicinity of a mosque, in the Wadi Kabir area of Muscat.
Regional risks
Ongoing hostilities in the region and between Israel and Iran could escalate quickly and pose security risks for the wider region.  
There is a possibility of travel disruption, including short-notice airspace closures, delayed and cancelled flights, and other unanticipated travel impacts. 
You should: 
monitor local and international media for the latest information 
be vigilant and follow the instructions of local authorities 
check with relevant airlines for the latest updates before travelling
Political situation
Developments in the Middle East continue to affect public opinion in Oman. In October 2023, there was a small, peaceful demonstration outside the British Embassy. Further unannounced demonstrations are possible throughout the country. Stay alert and avoid large crowds.
Be aware of local sensitivities on these issues and follow the advice of the Omani authorities. Follow news reports and be alert to local and regional developments, which might trigger public disturbances.
Crime
Sexual assault
Personal attacks against foreign nationals, including sexual assault and rape, are relatively rare, but happen. Take care when walking or travelling alone, particularly at night. You should maintain at least the same level of personal security awareness as you would in the UK. See advice for women travelling abroad.
Laws and cultural differences
Oman’s laws and customs are very different to those in the UK and reflect the fact that Oman is an Islamic country. You should respect local traditions, customs, laws and religions at all times. Make sure your actions do not offend, especially during the holy month of Ramadan or if you plan to visit religious areas.
Personal ID
Always carry a copy of the photo page of your passport and keep the original in a safe place. If you live in Oman, carry your Omani ID.
Ramadan    
Ramadan is a holy month for Muslims. The dates vary by year and country. During this time, do not:
eat, drink, smoke or chew gum in public in the daytime, including in your car
play loud music or dance
swear in public
Get more advice when you arrive from your tour guide, hotel or business contacts.
You should also:
check opening hours of shops and restaurants
be aware that if hotels and restaurants are providing food or drink in fasting hours, they may separate you from Islamic guests, for example with screens
follow local dress codes – clothing that does not meet local dress codes may cause more offence at this time
be aware that fasting can cause tiredness, particularly during the later afternoon and early evening
be patient and show tolerance
Alcohol laws
Tourists and visitors can buy and drink alcohol in licensed venues, such as hotels, restaurants and clubs. The legal drinking age is 21.
Non-Muslim residents can get a licence to drink alcohol at home from the Royal Oman Police. Liquor licences are not available to non-residents.    
It is illegal to drink alcohol in public, be drunk in public or to drink-drive. The police have arrested and charged British nationals for these offences. Border police may arrest passengers travelling through Omani airports or seaports under the influence of alcohol.
E-cigarette and vape bans
It is illegal to import or use e-cigarettes or vape products in Oman.
Blood test following arrest
If you are arrested, the authorities may require you to take a blood test, particularly if they suspect you have used drugs or alcohol. If you refuse, you could be arrested for your failure to comply.
Dress codes
You should dress modestly in public areas including in shopping malls. Your clothing should cover the tops of your arms and legs (below the knee), and underwear should not be visible.
Wearing tight-fitting clothes is likely to attract attention. Do not wear swimming costumes or beachwear in public areas, except on tourist beaches or at swimming pools.
Cross-dressing is illegal.
Unmarried couples 
It is illegal to live with or share a hotel room with someone of the opposite sex if you are not married or closely related.
You may have difficulty registering the birth of a baby born in Oman if you are unmarried or in a relationship the Omani authorities do not recognise as marriage.
Illegal drugs penalties
There are severe penalties for importing, trafficking, smuggling and possessing drugs, even residual amounts. In some cases, offenders could get the death penalty. There is no distinction in Omani law between ‘soft’ and ‘hard’ drugs – both are treated with equal severity.
Public offences
It is illegal to swear and make rude gestures, including while driving. You can also be charged with obscenity for social media posts or shared photos or videos.
Showing affection in public is frowned upon and may bring you to the attention of the police.
Pornography
It is illegal to create, import or share pornographic images and videos, even if created for personal use with the consent of those involved.
Using cameras and binoculars
It is illegal to photograph some government buildings and military sites. Do not photograph people without their permission. Hobbies like bird watching and plane spotting may be misunderstood – particularly near military sites, government buildings and airports.
Drones
It is illegal to fly drones or any other remote-controlled flying device without a valid licence or in restricted airspace.
LGBT+ travellers
Same-sex sexual activity is illegal in Oman. Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Financial crimes and unpaid bills
Foreign nationals must pay all debts and traffic fines before leaving Oman. You can check if you have outstanding traffic fines via the ROP app or online service: Royal Oman Police Website - Online Services - Traffic Offense Payment.
Financial crimes and unpaid bills include:
fraud
giving somebody a cheque which bounces (including post-dated and ‘security’ cheques)
non-payment of bills (for example property rent, hotel bills or car hire)
You may also be liable for cheques that you have signed on behalf of a company.
Financial crimes can be punished with:
imprisonment
fines
deportation
freezing bank accounts and other assets
seizing of any end-of-service benefits or bonuses
blocking your access to possible future sponsors (employers)
delay and/or prevention from leaving the country
See more details about financial crimes if you are living and working in Oman.
Child custody cases
The border authorities may prevent children from leaving Oman if they are the subject of a child custody dispute.
Outdoor activities and adventure tourism     
Swimming safety
See water safety on holiday from the Royal Life Saving Society.
Hiking and mountaineering
When hiking in Oman, be sure to follow marked hiking trails.  
Extreme heat has caused deaths in Oman due to dehydration and heat exhaustion – see advice for travellers affected by extreme heat.
Transport risks
Road travel
If you are planning to drive in Oman, see information on driving abroad.
You can use a UK photocard driving licence to drive a rental car in Oman for the first 6 weeks after you arrive. If you still have a paper driving licence, you may need to update it to a photocard licence or get the 1949 version of the international driving permit (IDP) as well.
If you live in Oman or are staying longer than 6 weeks, you must get an Omani licence.
Hire car companies often have stricter requirements for their customers, such as a year of driving experience, a higher minimum age and holding an IDP.
Drink-driving is a serious offence in Oman. If you are tested and found to have any alcohol in your system, you may get a fine and possible imprisonment.
Reporting traffic accidents
If you are involved in a serious traffic accident and do not need emergency treatment, you must stay with your vehicle and call the Royal Oman Police on 9999.
Serious accidents include those with:
severe damage to vehicles
injuries or deaths
damage to public or private property
drink-driving or drugs
one or more drivers without a licence (or with a suspended licence)
uninsured vehicles
military or security vehicles
You may not need to call the police after a minor accident, but you must complete a minor road traffic accident form. You must keep a form in your car – you can get one from your insurance company and at a police station. Car rental companies are responsible for keeping forms in their cars.
In a minor accident there is generally:
limited damage to vehicles
no injury or death
no damage to public or private property, apart from vehicles and property belonging to those involved
Rules of the road   
Rules of the road in Oman include:
all passengers must wear seatbelts
all children aged 3 and under must use child car seats
it is illegal to use a mobile phone while driving
The Omani authorities strictly enforce traffic laws. There are severe penalties for traffic offences, including fines of up to 3,000 Omani rials or prison sentences of up to 3 years.
Driving conditions
Driving can be dangerous outside Muscat. There is a risk of hitting wandering camels and goats on the road. Rainfall can cause sudden, severe floods in dry riverbeds and on roads that cross them.
The condition of Omani roads is generally good. Driving standards in Oman are not always as disciplined as those in the UK, and the rate of traffic accidents in Oman is significantly higher.
Desert and mountain travel
Road trips to the desert and mountains can be dangerous unless you’re in a well-equipped 4-wheel-drive vehicle. You should always:
travel in convoy if possible
take a supply of water
take a mobile phone or satellite phone
leave a copy of your travel plans with friends or relatives
make sure you’re insured for this type of travel
Sea travel
The safety of tourist boats may not be up to UK standards. Make sure life jackets are available for all passengers.
Many areas of the Gulf of Aden are restricted. Vessels entering these areas have been detained and inspected, sometimes resulting in arrests. You should make careful enquiries before entering these waters or visiting ports. Consider how regional tensions may affect your route.
Vessels may be at increased risk of maritime attack, including piracy, in:   
the Gulf of Oman
the Northern Arabian Sea
the Gulf of Aden
Bab El Mandeb
See piracy in the Gulf of Aden and Indian Ocean. The threat assessment of the combined international naval counter-piracy forces is that sailing yachts should not enter the designated high-risk area, due to the risk of hijacking.
Extreme weather and natural disasters
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards.
Tropical cyclones
Tropical cyclones from the Indian Ocean sometimes affect Oman in July and August, disrupting services and utilities.
You should:
follow official weather warnings
check local weather forecasts and World Meteorological Organization reports for Oman
get advice about travelling conditions, particularly if you’re planning off-road travel or adventure tourism
Flash floods
Flash floods can cause injuries and deaths. Wadis (dry riverbeds) in Oman are prone to flash flooding after heavy rainfall from October to March.
Before travelling to a wadi, check the weather forecast and avoid places where heavy rain is expected and for at least one day afterwards.
If you’re caught in a flash flood:
go to a high point
do not try to cross the water
drive to a dry spot if you’re in a vehicle
Follow any instructions or guidance from the Royal Oman Police.
