Coronavirus guidance is being updated.
Read what you can and cannot do

This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Oman as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Oman to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Oman
The following places are closed across Oman:
mosques and other places of worship;
events and conferences;
all tourist sites (including wadis and picnic areas);
all shops in shopping malls (except supermarkets, clinics, pharmacies and opticians);
souqs and other traditional markets;
restaurants and cafes (including in hotels) except for takeaway/delivery;
gyms, spas and hairdressers.
The government has stated that no public gatherings, including on beaches, should take place.
Restrictions on road travel within Oman, including police checkpoints, might be introduced at short notice. You should monitor local news sources or official social media accounts (including the Oman VS COVID19 twitter account) for the latest information. Always follow the instructions of the local authorities.
Visas
The Royal Oman Police has confirmed that visitors to Oman who could not leave the country owing to the closure of borders will not be penalised for overstaying their visas.
If you have any questions on the validity or expiry of your visa, contact the Royal Oman Police directly.
Health
You should comply with any additional screening measures put in place by the local authorities. If you have any questions about these measures or the quarantine instructions, you can call the Ministry of Health in Oman on +968 2444 1999. Failure to follow the instructions of the local authorities could result in prosecution.
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Oman
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Oman, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
