The Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) advises against all but essential travel to:
The whole of Oman based on the current assessment of COVID-19 risks.
Direct flights from Oman to England are prohibited. Visitors who have been in or transited through Oman in the previous 10 days cannot enter the UK. British and Irish nationals and third country nationals with residence rights in the UK arriving in England from Oman will be required to quarantine in a hotel. Different requirements apply for arrivals into Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland.
From 1 January onwards, those with residence rights includes: holders of Indefinite Leave to Remain; holders of existing leave to enter or remain (i.e those with biometric Residence permits) or an entry clearance/visa that grants such leave e.g. students, workers, etc (excluding visit visas); holders of EU Settlement Scheme (“EUSS”) leave; those who have rights of entry under the Withdrawal Agreements (including returning residents with a right of residence under the EEA Regulations and EEA frontier workers); family members of EEA nationals with rights under the Withdrawal Agreement.
Travel to Oman is subject to entry restrictions
Direct flights from the UK to Oman are prohibited. Travellers who have been in or transited through the United Kingdom in the previous 14 days cannot enter Oman with the exception of Omani citizens.
British nationals over the age of 16 must have a PCR test no more than 72 hours before arrival in Oman and complete an online pre-registration form. On landing, you must take a PCR test and self-isolate for 7 days. Self-isolation must be completed in a hotel at your own expense (exceptions apply – see International Travel section). A further PCR test must be taken on day 8.
If you are a British national under the age of 16, no PCR tests are required. For details of self-isolation requirements, see International Travel section.
You must have valid health insurance (covering coronavirus) to enter Oman.
Oman’s land borders were closed from 18 January 2021 and will remain so until further notice.
British nationals (excluding healthcare workers) who have visited Lebanon, Sudan, South Africa, Brazil, Nigeria, Tanzania, Guinea, Ghana, Sierra Leone, and Ethiopia in the last 14 days (including transit) will not be permitted to enter Oman. See Entry requirements for more information before you plan to travel.
Preparing for your return journey to the UK
If you’re returning to the UK from overseas, you will need to:
provide your journey and contact details before you travel
check if you need to self-isolate on your return
If your return journey to the UK transits another country, you should check whether it is subject to a travel ban or any other additional requirements. If so, contact your travel provider.
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
If you’re planning travel to Oman, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCDO’s guidance on foreign travel insurance.
For information about COVID-19 vaccines, see the Coronavirus page.
Following the attack on the coalition base at Taji in Iraq on 11 March 2020, and subsequent US airstrikes, tensions may be raised across the region. There is a possibility of an increased threat against Western interests, including against UK citizens. You should remain vigilant and keep up to date with the latest developments, including via the media and this travel advice.
Most visits to Oman are trouble-free. You should maintain a high level of security awareness and take care in public places and on the roads. Avoid large crowds and demonstrations.
Terrorist attacks in Oman can’t be ruled out. See Terrorism
Piracy remains a threat in the Gulf of Aden and the Indian Ocean. See Sea travel
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.
