Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Mozambique on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
From 4am on Saturday 9 January, visitors arriving into the UK who have been in or transited through Mozambique in the previous 10 days will not be permitted entry. British and Irish citizens, and third country nationals with residence rights in the UK arriving in the UK from Mozambique, need to self-isolate on their return. Check the latest guidance for England, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales.
From 1 January onwards, those with residence rights include: holders of Indefinite Leave to Remain; holders of existing leave to enter or remain (i.e those with biometric Residence permits) or an entry clearance/visa that grants such leave e.g. students, workers, etc (excluding visit visas); holders of EU Settlement Scheme (“EUSS”) leave; those who have rights of entry under the Withdrawal Agreements (including returning residents with a right of residence under the EEA Regulations and EEA frontier workers); family members of EEA nationals with rights under the Withdrawal Agreement.
Commercial flights to and from Maputo have resumed. Passenger flights are operating with a maximum frequency of twice a week. Check with your travel company for the latest information.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Mozambique.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
You are responsible for organizing your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements. You should check that the test result can be provided in the correct format and language.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Mozambique
The Mozambican government has declared “State of Calamity”’, which will remain in place indefinitely. These regulations laid under the “State of Calamity” have imposed restrictions on movement within the country. These restrictions can change at short notice, so contact your accommodation provider or tour operator for the latest information, and comply with the advice of the local authorities.
The Mozambican government announced new COVID-19 restrictions starting at midnight on 17 July for a period of 30 days. The new restrictions include: a mandatory curfew in all provincial capitals and some district capitals (Chokwe, Gondola, Moatize, Mocuba, Maxixe, Cuamba, Manhiça, Montepuez, Massinga and Nacala) from 09pm to 4am; limiting meetings to 15 people in closed spaces and 30 people in outdoor spaces; and the closure of gyms, public swimming pools and beaches.
Wearing face coverings is compulsory in all public spaces including on public transport.
Individuals who have been in places with active cases of coronavirus, or who have had direct contact with someone with a confirmed case of coronavirus, will be required to observe self-isolation for a period of 14 days.
Accommodation
Some hotels and other accommodations have closed. Please check with your accommodation provider before you travel.
Masks/face coverings are compulsory in hotels and other accommodation.
Public places and services
Most shopping centres, markets, restaurants, cafes and bars are open, with some restrictions on timings.
Beaches are now closed to the public. Swimming pools, gyms and other areas for physical training activities are now closed. Hotel swimming pools are open for guests only.
Only civil and religious weddings are allowed and attendance is limited to 20 people. All other religious services are not permitted except for civil and religious weddings not exceeding 20 people.
Wearing face coverings is compulsory in all public spaces
Healthcare in Mozambique
If you think you have COVID-19 symptoms, you should contact the National Institute of Health on 82 34 34/ 84 34 34 /86 34 34 000 and follow their instructions.
For contact details of English speaking doctors, visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Mozambique.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Mozambique
We will update this page when the Government of Mozambique announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Mozambique national vaccination programme started in March 2021 and is using the AstraZeneca, Sinopharm and Johnson and Johnson vaccines. The Government of Mozambique has stated that British nationals resident in Mozambique are eligible for vaccination if they choose to join the programme. Further information on the vaccination programme is available on the Government of Mozambique Ministry of Health website
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in Mozambique, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider or nearest health centre. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
