This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Mozambique set and enforce entry rules. For further information contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to. You should also consider checking with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Entry rules in response to coronavirus (COVID-19)
Entry to Mozambique
Entry to Mozambique is allowed to all travellers with a valid tourist, business or residency visa.
The issuing of border visas for tourism purposes has now resumed.
Testing on arrival
Testing for COVID-19 may be required on arrival in Mozambique, at your expense.
Quarantine requirements
Travellers presenting a negative COVID-19 PCR test are exempt from the quarantine regime regardless of whether they have been fully vaccinated. The test must have been issued in the departure country, within 72 hours prior to the time of arrival, even if they hold proof of vaccination. Children under 5 years old are exempt from the requirement to present a COVID-19 PCR test. You should not use the NHS testing service to get a test in order to facilitate your travel to another country. You should arrange to take a private test. A negative PCR test is valid for up to 7 days for travellers using the South Africa land border. Anyone testing positive, or in contact with someone who has tested positive for COVID-19 will be required to self-isolate for a period of 7 days. Anyone who does not present a negative COVID-19 test will need to self-isolate for 7 days.
A negative PCR test is valid for up to 7 days for travellers using the South Africa land border.
Anyone testing positive, or in contact with someone who has tested positive for COVID-19 will be required to self-isolate for a period of 7 days. Anyone who does not present a negative COVID-19 test will need to self-isolate for 7 days.
Data collection
All arriving passengers are required to provide their contact details to the Mozambican authorities.
Extension to visas
You’ll need to apply for an extension of stay if your visa expires. All applicants must make an appointment in order to apply for the extension. You can make an appointment on the government website, or alternatively you can contact SENAMI on 90243 from 7:30am to 3:30pm, or make an appointment in person at your provincial immigration office. Further information is available on the Mozambican government website.
Regular entry requirements
Visas
You will need a visa to enter Mozambique. If you’re a tourist or travelling for work purposes from a country where there is a Mozambican diplomatic mission, you must get the appropriate visa before travelling.
In summer 2017, Mozambique introduced the possibility for tourists to buy visas at border posts. However, border visas should be considered an exception, not standard practice; they’re intended for visitors originating in countries where there is no Mozambican diplomatic mission to issue visas. If you’re travelling from a country where there is Mozambican diplomatic or consular representation (such as the UK), you should continue to apply for a visa before travelling. If you intend to ask for a border visa on arrival, you should be ready to explain clearly why you didn’t get a visa before travelling.
You must present on entry a return air ticket (for air travellers) and either an invitation from family / friends or a confirmed hotel reservation.
You can apply for a visa at the High Commission of the Republic of Mozambique, 21 Fitzroy Square, London W1T 6EL, telephone: + 44 (0)20 7383 3800.
Passport validity
Your passport should be valid for a minimum period of 6 months from the date your visa for Mozambique was issued, and have at least two blank pages.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are accepted for entry into, transit through and exit from Mozambique as long as they have a minimum of 6 months’ validity and a valid entry visa.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
Border formalities
It can take a long time to clear border formalities at the Lebombo/Ressano Garcia land crossing with South Africa, especially during holiday periods and if you are travelling on public transport. Allow adequate time to arrive at your destination before nightfall. This and other land borders are currently closed except to essential freight traffic.
Travelling with children via a South African airport
If you’re transiting through a South African airport with children, check travel advice for South Africa for information and advice about the documents you’ll need to carry.
