Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

There are still commercial options to return to the UK from Mozambique.
If you live in the UK and are currently visiting Mozambique you’re strongly advised to return now by commercial means. Don’t risk getting stranded.
UK special charter flights will only operate for priority countries where commercial flights are not possible. You should not assume that these flights will become available in Mozambique because commercial routes are operating. You should not contact the contracted travel management company if no flight is advertised here.
Flights
There are still commercial options to return to the UK from Mozambique with Ethiopian Airlines via Addis Ababa.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Arrival in the UK
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Help and support
You can contact the British High Commission via ReturnFromMozambique@fco.gov.uk. You can use this to share your full name, date of birth, passport number, location in Mozambique, and contact details like your email address and phone number. We will use this information to understand what assistance British visitors to Mozambique might need to help them return to the UK. We may not be able to respond to every email to this account, but we will keep our social media accounts and Travel Advice up to date with changes to flights and border options as we become aware of them.
Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British High Commission on Twitter and Facebook.
If you’re in Mozambique and you need advice which is not covered by reading our travel advice then you can contact us online.
If you need urgent consular assistance, call +258 21 35 60 00 and follow the prompts.
Further information
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
