!
Warning
FCDO advises against all travel to parts of Mozambique.

This guide also has safety advice for regions of Mozambique.
Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.  
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Mozambique
Terrorists are very likely to try and carry out attacks in Mozambique.
The main threat is from IS-Mozambique (IS-M), a terrorist group with links to Daesh (formerly known as Islamic State) that is mainly active in Cabo Delgado Province, and has previously carried out attacks in neighbouring districts of Niassa and Nampula Provinces.
Since January, IS-M have been associated with 76 incidents (violent attacks, robberies, looting, threats) across Cabo Delgado which has resulted in over 125 deaths, including civilians and security personnel, including a large-scale attack on Macomia town on 10 May. In these incidents, security forces have not been able to reach these areas quickly.
See regional risks.  
Militants have used explosives, machetes and firearms to conduct lethal attacks, as well as burning vehicles and homes. In 2021, dozens of people were killed in a large-scale attack in Palma, Cabo Delgado Province.  
Attacks could be indiscriminate, including in places frequented by foreign nationals, such as:
roads and road blocks
military bases
towns and villages
islands off the coast
Stay aware of your surroundings, stay up to date with local media reports, and follow the advice of local authorities.
Terrorist kidnap
Due to the presence of groups with links to Islamist extremism, there is a threat of kidnap in Mozambique. The threat is particularly acute in northern districts of Cabo Delgado Province.
British nationals are seen as legitimate targets, including tourists, humanitarian aid workers, journalists and business travellers. If you are kidnapped, the reason for your presence is unlikely to protect you or secure your safe release. 
The long-standing policy of the British government policy is not to make substantive concessions to hostage takers. The British government considers that paying ransoms and releasing prisoners builds the capability of terrorist groups and finances their activities. This can, in turn, increase the risk of further hostage-taking. The Terrorism Act (2000) makes payments to terrorists illegal. 
If you work in Mozambique, you should follow your employer’s security guidelines. Employers are strongly advised to take professional security advice, be vigilant at all times and review security measures regularly. Keep others informed of your travel plans and vary your routines. Make sure your accommodation is secure and consider pre-deployment training or travelling under close protection, particularly if working in Cabo Delgado.
Political situation
Presidential elections are due to be held on 9 October 2024.
In Mozambique demonstrations and protests can be unpredictable, occur at short notice and may turn violent. Pay attention to your surroundings, stay away from crowds and monitor the local media.
Crime
Street crime, sometimes involving knives and firearms, is common in Maputo and is increasing in other cities and tourist destinations. There are some areas in cities which are more dangerous – seek local advice. Beaches and offshore islands are not policed.
Protecting yourself and your belongings
You can reduce the risk from pickpocketing and mugging by:
not walking alone, especially in deserted areas or at night
not displaying cash, jewellery or mobile phones
not using ATMs at night, and using ATMs in banks whenever possible
keeping valuables in a hotel safe or other secure place
If you want to report a crime, contact the local police to get a police report. Also report stolen passports to the British High Commission in Maputo and the Mozambican immigration authorities.
Carjacking
There is a risk of carjacking, particularly in Maputo and Matola but also between Boane and the Eswatini border crossing points of Namaacha and Goba. Keep your car doors locked and windows closed while driving. Be particularly vigilant when you arrive at or leave residential properties after dark. Avoid driving alone at night.
Do not pick up strangers or stop to help distressed motorists or pedestrians. Hijackers sometimes use these techniques to trick motorists into stopping their vehicles. If in doubt, drive directly to a police station.
Police harassment
Some visitors to Mozambique report being victims of police harassment, including robbery and requests for bribes. If a police officer threatens you or asks for a bribe, report this to the British High Commission for awareness.  
Criminal kidnap
There have been kidnappings for ransom reported in Mozambique, mainly in Maputo. While most victims have been Mozambicans, kidnappers have also targeted foreigners.
Laws and cultural differences
Personal ID
As a foreigner, you must always have your passport with you. Police patrols and checkpoints are common, and they will not accept copies or photos.
Do not hand over your passport to anyone other than an official. Ask to see their ID if in doubt.
Alcohol laws and bans
It is illegal to drink alcohol on public beaches.
Illegal drugs and prison sentences
If you are convicted of drug use, possession or trafficking, you can expect to get a long prison sentence and a fine.
Landmines
All known minefields in Mozambique have been cleared. In the central and southern provinces of Sofala, Tete, Manica, Gaza, Inhambane and Maputo, mines may still exist in remote areas away from main routes. Get advice from district authorities if you plan to travel in these areas.
Using cameras in secure areas
It is illegal to photograph government offices, airports, military establishments, residences and police or officials without special permission. If in doubt, do not take pictures.
LGBT+ travellers
There are no laws against same-sex sexual activity. Attitudes in Maputo tend to be more liberal than in more remote rural or religious areas of the country. Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Money
Make sure you can access money in a variety of ways. Travellers’ cheques are not commonly accepted, Mastercard is not always accepted across the country. US dollars and South African rand are the main exchange currencies.
Credit cards, are increasingly accepted in the larger cities. You should tell your bank before using your card in Mozambique.
Transport risks
Road travel
If you are planning to drive in Mozambique, see information on driving abroad and check the rules of the road.
You can use a UK photocard driving licence to drive in Mozambique for up to 90 days. If you still have a paper driving licence, you may need to update it to a photocard licence or get the correct version of the international driving permit (IDP) as well.
After 90 days, you must have an IDP or a Mozambican driving licence.
Drink-driving is a serious offence in Mozambique. If you are tested and found to have more than three-quarters of England’s legal limit of alcohol in your system, you may get a fine and possible imprisonment.
You are legally required have third-party insurance, which you can buy at most land borders. Traffic police may give you an on-the-spot fine if you cannot show your licence and ownership and insurance documents.  
You must always carry 2 reflective triangles in your vehicle and wear a reflective vest when repairing, loading or unloading a vehicle. If you cannot produce the 2 triangles and 2 vests, you can get an on-the-spot fine.
Police officers sometimes stop drivers and try to extract bribes. If police are fining you for no clear reason, ask for a written fine you can pay at a police station.
Only travel by road outside major cities during daylight. Where possible, keep to major roads and travel in convoy in rural areas. Fuel is available in larger towns only.
Driving standards and road conditions
Traffic accidents are common in Mozambique due to poor road conditions and low driving standards. Watch for pedestrians on the roads.
Low-lying areas around major rivers flood regularly during the rainy season from November to April, making many roads impassable. Check conditions before travelling. Make sure you have emergency supplies, including a first aid kit.
Public transport
Overland travel on public transport can be hazardous due to vehicles being in an unsafe condition. If you doubt a vehicle’s condition, make alternative arrangements.
Sea travel
There is a significant risk of piracy in the Gulf of Aden and Indian Ocean. Pirates can attack up to 1,000 nautical miles from the Somali coast or more. The threat assessment of the combined international naval counter-piracy forces is that sailing yachts should not enter the designated high-risk area, due to the risk of hijacking.
Extreme weather and natural disasters
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards. 
Cyclones and floods
Cyclones and floods are common during the rainy season from November to April. They often cause landslides, which result in road closures and disruption to travel and public transport.
Monitor local reports and international weather updates from the World Meteorological Organization and the National Meteorological Institute (in Portuguese).
