Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

Coronavirus (COVID-19): stay up to date
Find out how to return to the UK from Mozambique
See information on local measures in Mozambique to limit the spread of the virus
See coronavirus travel advice for guidance on international travel
Sign up for email alerts for Mozambique travel advice
The Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) is advising British nationals against all non-essential international travel at this time. Existing advice for Mozambique remains in place:
The FCO advise against all travel:
to the district of Mocimboa da Praia in Cabo Delgado Province
The FCO advise against all but essential travel:
to the districts of Nangade, Quissanga, Ibo, Macomia, Palma, Meluco, Mueda and Muidumbe in Cabo Delgado province, including the islands off the coast, due to attacks by groups with links to Islamic extremism.
on the EN1 road between Inchope and the town of Gorongoza and the EN6 road between Tica and Inchope, in Sofala province. Since August 2019, there have been a number of armed attacks on vehicles on roads in the province.
Cases of coronavirus (COVID-19) have been confirmed in Mozambique. The Mozambique authorities have introduced a number of measures to limit the spread of the virus. See Coronavirus
For information on how to return to the UK from Mozambique, see Return to the UK
Given the rapidly changing situation in Mozambique we are temporarily withdrawing a limited number of UK staff and their dependents from our High Commission. The High Commission will continue to carry out essential work including providing 24/7 consular assistance and support to British people in Mozambique.
Terrorists are likely to try to carry out attacks in Mozambique. There has been an increasing intensity of attacks in areas of Cabo Delgado province dating back to January 2019. Militants have used explosives, machetes and firearms to conduct lethal attacks, as well as burning vehicles and homes. There are reports of an increased security presence in the province, including road blocks, and there are regular clashes between militants, armed vigilante groups and Mozambican security forces. There is also a threat of kidnap in Mozambique, which is particularly acute in northern districts of Cabo Delgado province. See Terrorism
South African Airways is undergoing a business rescue process resulting in changes to its international and domestic flight schedules and some cancellations. Check with the airline or your tour operator before travelling
Cabo Delgado Province was affected by heavy rains and flooding in late December 2019. Monitor local reports, check your routes before travelling and follow the advice of local authorities. You can monitor local and international weather updates from the World Meteorological Organisation.
Mozambique was affected by two major tropical cyclones during the 2018-19 rainy season, which had a major impact on the people and infrastructure of Sofala, Manica, Nampula, Tete, Zambezia and Cabo Delgado provinces. Critical infrastructure has been restored and main roads are open. However, not all bridges have been repaired and travel in the rainy season may therefore be restricted. If you’re travelling to affected areas, you should plan ahead, check routes before travelling and follow the advice of the local authorities.
Coastal areas have a risk of tropical cyclones during the rainy season (November to April). Widespread flooding can also occur around river basins, especially the Zambezi. See Natural disasters
Most visits to Mozambique are trouble-free, but violent crime does occur and there have been cases of criminal kidnappings. You should take extra care. See Crime
Traffic accidents are common due to the condition of the roads, poor driving and vehicle standards. Always drive carefully and be aware of pedestrians using the roads. If you’re travelling by road make sure you have relevant documents with you at all times and monitor local media for traffic updates. See Road travel
Piracy remains a significant threat in the Gulf of Aden and Indian Ocean. See Sea travel
Consular support is limited in parts of Mozambique where the FCO has existing advice against all but essential travel (see above). If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.
The Overseas Business Risk service offers information and advice for British companies operating overseas on how to manage political, economic, and business security-related risks.
Take out comprehensive travel and medical insurance before you travel.
