Terrorists are very likely to try to carry out attacks in Mozambique. Attacks could be indiscriminate, including in places visited by foreigners. You should be vigilant at all times, especially in crowded areas and public places and you should follow the advice of local authorities.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out more about the global threat from terrorism.
Groups with links to Islamist extremism have carried out attacks in Cabo Delgado since late 2017, with attacks reported in the districts of Palma, Mocimboa da Praia, Macomia, Nangade, Quissanga, Muidumbe, Meluco, Ibo and Mueda, including the islands off the coast. Attacks may also take place outside of these areas. Militants have used explosives, machetes and firearms to conduct lethal attacks, including attacks on vehicles. In June 2019, Islamic State claimed responsibility for an attack for the first time. Most recently, there was a large-scale attack on Palma in March/April 2021, also claimed by the Islamic State, in which dozens of people were killed.
Since March 2020, the district of Mocimboa da Praia has been attacked and captured several times by groups with links to Islamist extremism, the most recent on 12 August 2020. There has been an increasing number of attacks since 2019.
There are reports of an increased security presence in Cabo Delgado province, including road blocks, and there are regular clashes between insurgents, armed vigilante groups and Mozambican security forces in areas where we advise against all or all but essential travel. If you’re planning to travel to the area, you should check local and social media for updates before you travel to the area and follow the advice of the local authorities.
There’s a heightened threat of terrorist attack globally against UK interests and British nationals, from groups or individuals motivated by the conflict in Iraq and Syria. You should be vigilant at this time.
Kidnap
Due to the presence of groups with links to Islamic extremism, there is a threat of kidnap in Mozambique. The threat is particularly acute in northern districts of Cabo Delgado province.
British nationals are viewed as legitimate targets, including those engaged in tourism, humanitarian aid work, journalism or business sectors. If you’re kidnapped, the reason for your presence is unlikely to serve as a protection or secure your safe release.
If you’re working in Mozambique, you should follow your employer’s local security guidelines. Employers are strongly advised to take professional security advice, be vigilant at all times and review security measures regularly. Keep others informed of your travel plans and vary your routines. Make sure your accommodation is secure and consider pre-deployment training or travelling under close protection, particularly if working in Cabo Delgado.
The long-standing policy of the British government is not to make substantive concessions to hostage takers. The British government considers that paying ransoms and releasing prisoners builds the capability of terrorist groups and finances their activities. This can, in turn, increase the risk of further hostage-taking. The Terrorism Act (2000) makes payments to terrorists illegal.
