!
Warning
FCDO advises against all travel to parts of Mozambique.

Your travel insurance could be invalidated if you travel against advice from the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO).
Areas where FCDO advises against travel
Cabo Delgado Province
FCDO advises against all travel to the following districts in Cabo Delgado Province due to attacks by groups with links to Islamist extremism. The advice covers the districts of:
Chiure
Mueda
Nangade
Palma, except Palma town, where FCDO advises against all but essential travel
Mocímboa da Praia
Muidumbe
Meluco
Macomia
Quissanga
Ibo, including the islands off the coast
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to the rest of Cabo Delgado Province due to attacks by groups with links to Islamist extremism.
Nampula Province
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to the districts of Memba and Eráti in Nampula Province, due to attacks by groups with links to Islamist extremism.
Find out more about why FCDO advises against travel. 
Disruption and ongoing protests
The Constitutional Council is expected to validate Presidential election results on or around 23 December. You should prepare for significant disruption and unrest across Mozambique from the week of the 16th of December preceding and in the weeks following the announcement.
Protests and demonstrations continue to occur at short notice across Mozambique. These can be unpredictable, and even peaceful protests may turn violent with casualties. See Safety and security page. Roads and border crossings can be restricted, blocked or closed at short notice. Pay attention to your surroundings, stay away from crowds, monitor the local media and be prepared for disruption to services and transport nationwide which can affect main routes, including those to airports.
Before you travel
No travel can be guaranteed safe. Read all the advice in this guide. You may also find it helpful to: 
see general advice for women travellers
read our guide on disability and travel abroad
see general advice for LGBT+ travellers
read about safety for solo and independent travel
see advice on volunteering and adventure travel abroad
Travel insurance
If you choose to travel, research your destinations and get appropriate travel insurance. Insurance should cover your itinerary, planned activities and expenses in an emergency.
About FCDO travel advice
FCDO provides advice about risks of travel to help you make informed decisions. Find out more about FCDO travel advice.
Follow and contact FCDO travel on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram. You can also sign up to get email notifications when this advice is updated.
