This travel advice covers Israel and the Occupied Palestinian Territories
This page has information on travelling to Israel and The Occupied Palestinian Territories. Check what you must do to return to the UK.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport from the UK, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Israel and The Occupied Palestinian Territories set and enforce entry rules.
All travellers
You don’t need a visa to enter Israel/The Occupied Palestinian Territories as a tourist. On entry, visitors are granted leave to enter for a period of up to 3 months.
Visitors entering via Tel Aviv Ben Gurion Airport are given an entry card instead of an entry stamp in their passport. While this practice is in place at other ports of entry, there have been instances where passports have been stamped for entry purposes. You should keep your entry card with your passport until you leave. This is evidence of your legal entry into Israel and may be required, particularly at any crossing points into the Occupied Palestinian Territories. If you’re refused entry into Israel, your passport may be stamped with an entry stamp and two red lines drawn across it to indicate the refusal.
It is for the Israeli authorities to determine the right of entry into Israel, if you have any particular concerns about visas or entry into Israel, you should contact the Israeli embassy. If you work in Israel without the proper authority, you can be detained and then deported, a process which could take several months. Consular staff will not be able to help you enter Israel or the Occupied Palestinian Territories. They are unable get involved in another country’s immigration policy or procedures.
At the Allenby Bridge crossing with Jordan, as well as at Tel Aviv Ben Gurion Airport, Israeli border officials have on occasions used an entry stamp for certain travellers that states ‘Palestinian Authority only’ or ‘Judea and Samaria only’. Since travellers entering via the Allenby Bridge crossing must pass through Israeli checkpoints and Israeli-controlled territory to reach Jerusalem or Gaza, this restriction effectively limits travellers who receive this stamp. It is not clear how a traveller receiving the stamp at Tel Aviv Ben Gurion Airport can leave the airport without violating the restriction. This stamp has been issued to travellers who have no Palestinian or other Arab ancestry, and who would not seem to have any claim to a Palestinian Authority ID.
Israeli border officials at Tel Aviv Ben Gurion Airport have also at times required certain travellers to sign a form that states that he/she is not allowed to enter territories controlled by the Palestinian Authority unless he/she obtains advance authorisation from the Israeli ‘Territory Actions Co-ordinator’, and that violating this restriction may result in the traveller being deported from Israel and barred from entry for up to 10 years. In March 2017 the Israeli Parliament passed a law which gives authority to deny entry to foreign nationals who have publicly called for a boycott of Israel and/or settlements, or who belong to an organisation which has called for a boycott. Contact the Israeli embassy if you need further information.
Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are not valid for entry into Israel and the Occupied Palestinian Territories unless the holder is a returning resident. However, ETDs are accepted for airside transit and exit from Israel.
Previous Travel to Other Countries
Evidence of a previous visit to another country in the region like an entry/exit stamp in your passport does not normally prevent entry into Israel, although it may lead to additional questioning at the border. It is for the Israeli authorities to determine the right of entry into Israel, so if you have any particular concerns about previous travel to another country, you should contact the Israeli Embassy in London.
Customs and Immigration
You should expect lengthy personal questioning and baggage searches by security officials on arrival and departure from Israel. Electrical items, including laptops, may be taken from departing passengers for security inspection and either stored in the aircraft baggage hold, or returned to you in the UK. Damage may occur.
If you arrive with valuable personal items (computers, camcorders etc.) you may be required to pay a deposit that is refundable on or after departure.
Israeli security officials have on occasion requested access to travellers’ personal e-mail accounts or other social media accounts as a condition of entry.
Entering the Occupied Palestinian Territories
Entry to the Occupied Palestinian Territories (OPTs), including by sea to Gaza, is controlled by the Israeli authorities. You must produce a passport and immigration slip, to cross between Israel and the OPTs.
You may be detained on arrival and deported if you are intending to enter Gaza without permission. If you’re entering the country for the purpose of working in the OPTs, you may be refused entry.
The FCDO is not able to support individuals applying for entry or exit permits for Gaza. If you decide to visit Gaza against FCDO advice, you will need to contact the relevant Israeli authorities well in advance. If your entry to Gaza is via the Rafah crossing, you will need to contact the relevant Egyptian authorities in advance. The FCDO is no longer able to provide administrative support for UK charities wishing to enter Gaza via the Rafah crossing. The Rafah border regularly closes with no warning and for long periods of time. At these times it may be impossible to enter or leave Gaza.
For more information, contact the nearest Israeli Embassy.
British nationals of Palestinian origin
If you’re a British national of Palestinian origin (on the Palestinian Population Register or holding a Palestinian ID number), you will need a Palestinian passport or travel document in order to leave. If you are a British national with a Palestinian name or place of birth but without a Palestinian ID number, you may face problems. A number of British nationals of Palestinian origin or British nationals married to Palestinians have been refused entry to the country.
Dual nationals
British-Palestinian dual nationals living in the West Bank and Gaza are allowed to travel abroad only via the Rafah or Allenby Bridge border crossings into Egypt or Jordan and return via the same route.
Children with Israeli parents (father and/or mother) are considered to be Israeli nationals. The Israeli Ministry of Interior insists that these children enter and leave Israel on an Israeli passport.
If you’re fully vaccinated
If you’re fully vaccinated, you can enter Israel/The Occupied Palestinian Territories.
You will need to present a negative PCR test taken within 72 hours before the flight to Israel, or, a negative result for an antigen COVID-19 test performed 24 hours before the flight. These tests must be performed by a professional test lab in the origin country and should state the full name and passport number of the passenger. Self, home tests will not be accepted.
You are required to fill out an entry statement form within 48 hours before your flight to Israel.
On arrival in Israel, you must take a further PCR test before leaving the airport, at your own expense. You can make the payment after you submit the entry statement form prior to traveling to Israel. Payment in advance is at a reduced price. Only PCR tests are admissible.
All passengers must enter home isolation until the results of their PCR test arrive, or 24 hours have passed. If the result of the test is positive the individual will be required to remain in home isolation for a minimum of 14 days, although this can be reduced by taking a second PCR test on day 7. Entrants from ‘red’ locations may be required to isolate in a government facility.
Full guidance on requirements upon arrival is regularly updated online. Check Israeli Population and Immigration Authority pages and the dedicated COVID-19 Air Transport website for full details. Further restrictions may be introduced at short notice.
Proof of vaccination status
You must present proof that you have been fully vaccinated to enter Israel/The Occupied Palestinian Territories.
You can use the UK’s proof of COVID-19 vaccination record to demonstrate your vaccination status when entering Israel. If you are travelling with a printed PDF proof of vaccination status, it must date from 1 November to ensure that the certificate can be scanned successfully. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
If you hold a verifiable digital certificate proving vaccination status, this should be scanned or uploaded along with the entry declaration. If you do not have a verifiable digital certificate, you should declare the vaccinations you have received in the entry declaration form and attach all relevant documentation. You will then receive a Green Pass prior to boarding your flight.
Entry via Land Borders
Restrictions also apply at land crossings between Israel and Jordan, and between the Occupied Palestinian Territories and Jordan. You can find the latest guidance on entering and exiting Israel via the land borders on the Israeli Ministry of Health’s website.
Those wishing to enter Jordan from Israel will need to register in advance. You can find more information on the Visit Jordan website.
You may face delays or restrictions at Israeli controlled checkpoints around the West Bank, including when attempting to leave the West Bank. See Coronavirus.
If you’re not fully vaccinated
If you are not fully vaccinated, you will need to apply for a specific exemption to visit Israel.
You will need to follow all other guidance on testing and self-isolation set out in the section above for vaccinated visitors. Full guidance on requirements upon arrival is regularly updated online. Check Israeli Population and Immigration Authority pages and the dedicated COVID-19 Air Transport website for full details. Further restrictions may be introduced at short notice.
If you’ve had COVID-19 in the past year
Full guidance on requirements upon arrival is regularly updated online. Check Israeli Population and Immigration Authority pages and the dedicated COVID-19 Air Transport website for full details. Further restrictions may be introduced at short notice.
Children and young people
Children of any age who have not been vaccinated and do not have a COVID-19 recovery certificate will need to apply for an exemption to enter Israel.
If you receive permission to enter Israel, you will need to follow all other guidance on testing and self-isolation set out in the section above for vaccinated visitors. Full guidance on requirements upon arrival is regularly updated online. Check Israeli Population and Immigration Authority pages and the dedicated COVID-19 Air Transport website for full details. Further restrictions may be introduced at short notice.
If you’re transiting through Israel/The Occupied Palestinian Territories
Transiting is when you pass through one country on the way to your final destination.
If you are transiting through Israel on your way to another country and staying in the airport (airside) you do not need to complete a further PCR test on arrival.
If you are transiting through Israel/the Occupied Palestinian Territories on your way to another country and will be passing through immigration (sometimes known as a layover), for example to stay in a hotel for a flight the next day, you need to follow guidance above for visitors arriving in Israel.
Full guidance on requirements upon arrival is regularly updated online. Check Israeli Population and Immigration Authority pages and the dedicated COVID-19 Air Transport website for full details. Further restrictions may be introduced at short notice.
If you stay in Israel/the Occupied Palestinian Territories for over 72 hours you must present a negative COVID-19 PCR test, or a valid Israeli vaccination or recovery certificate to leave Israel.
Exemptions
If you are not fully vaccinated and do not have a COVID-19 recovery certificate will need to apply for an exemption to enter Israel.
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
If you are visiting Israel/Occupied Palestinian Territories, your passport should be valid for a minimum of six months from the date you arrive.
Check with your travel provider to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Returning to the UK
If you stayed in Israel/the Occupied Palestinian Territories for over 72 hours you must present a negative COVID-19 PCR test, or a valid Israeli vaccination or recovery certificate to leave Israel. All travellers must also complete an online outbound passenger exit statement form.
Check what you must do to return to the UK.
