This travel advice covers Israel and the Occupied Palestinian Territories
At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Coronavirus
There is an ongoing outbreak of coronavirus (COVID-19) in China, but cases have been confirmed elsewhere, including in Israel and the Occupied Palestinian Territories. The Israeli and Palestinian authorities have introduced a number of precautionary measures.
On 9 March 2020 Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu announced that arrivals entering Israel from overseas would be subject to home quarantine measures for 14 days on public health grounds. This decision will be reviewed after 14 days. Visitors who are unable to demonstrate they can undertake the home quarantine measures will be refused entry in to Israel. The Israeli authorities have announced this will be effective starting from 20:00 on Thursday 12 March. Visitors who are subject to home-quarantine regulations must be able to do so in a private dwelling, not a hotel.
Some airlines have stated they intend to suspend or reduce flight operations to Tel Aviv Ben Gurion Airport. Visitors in Israel or the Occupied Palestinian Territories may wish to consider re-confirming their travel arrangements with their airline, including double-checking which departure terminal they are leaving from as this may change, and being prepared to fly home earlier than planned if required.
The Allenby/King Hussein Bridge Crossing between the Occupied Palestinian Territories and Jordan is closed with the exception of: Jordanian citizens returning to Jordan; Palestinian residents (West Bank, Gaza and East Jerusalem ID holders) returning to the Occupied Palestinian Territories; and Israeli citizens returning from Jordan to Israel. Tourists leaving Israel and entering Jordan will only be permitted to do so via cross the Allenby/King Hussein Bridge Crossing if they have a flight booked. In this case, exit will be allowed six hours before the flight departs.
The Jordan River / Sheikh Hussein and Yitzhak Rabin/ Wadi Arraba crossings between Jordan and Israel are open to Israeli citizens. Foreign passport holders will not be allowed to enter Israel and the Occupied Palestinian Territories via these crossings.
The Palestinian Authority (PA) has issued restrictions for visitors and residents in the Occupied Palestinian Territories, including in the Bethlehem area. On 5 March 2020 the PA announced a state of emergency lasting 30 days, including closure of educational institutions, reducing movement between cities, cancellation of public gatherings and conferences, and cancellation of tourism reservations and hotel bookings. You may face delays or restrictions at Israeli controlled checkpoints around the West Bank. You should reconfirm your arrangements with your tour operator or hotel before travelling.
Foreign nationals are not currently able to cross checkpoints to enter Bethlehem. Foreign nationals who are currently in Bethlehem must leave 6 hours before their scheduled flight and travel direct to Tel Aviv Ben Gurion Airport. If you are part of an organised tour group, you will travel on an Israeli bus which will be escorted by Israeli police direct to the airport. If you are travelling alone, you can take an Israeli taxi to the airport. No prior coordination with the Israeli authorities is necessary. You will need to show your passport and flight ticket to authorities at the Israeli controlled checkpoint on exiting Bethlehem.
Visitors should follow the following guidance:
Call the authorities (MDA on 101) immediately if symptoms develop
Take extra care in personal hygiene
Avoid crowds as much as possible
Re-entry to Israel from neighbouring countries is forbidden
Document all movements during the time left in Israel
You should check Israel’s Ministry of Health website for updated information.
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
You can find more information about cases in Israel on the TravelHealthPro website and in the Occupied Palestinian Territories on the TravelHealthPro website.
Local medical care
Healthcare in Israel is not free and medical treatment can be expensive. Hospitals will insist on payment and may take legal action to delay departure until bills are met. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 101 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment. 
