

This travel advice covers Israel and the Occupied Palestinian Territories
There is currently a large-scale conflict happening in areas of southern Israel close to the border with Gaza. See Summary page for more information, including information for British nationals who are in Israel and the Occupied Palestinian Territories.
Keep up to date with local travel advice via local news outlets and international outlets like the Access Coordination Unit
Israel has often responded with air strikes into Gaza. Make sure you know the safety actions that you should take if an Israeli warning siren sounds, follow advice from local authorities and stay informed of the security situation through the media and this travel advice. No warning sirens will sound inside Gaza. See Gaza
You should also exercise extreme caution when considering visiting Palestinian refugee camps which have previously been the site of violent clashes (we advise against all but essential travel to the camps in Jenin and Nablus).
In Israel and the West Bank, there is a risk of violent incidents, including stabbings, shootings, arson, vehicle rammings and stone throwing attacks on people and vehicles. These incidents have involved protestors (both Israelis and Palestinians), Israeli security forces, and civilians (including Israeli settlers). There is a risk that tourists or bystanders could be caught up in any of these types of incident.
There have also been large political demonstrations across Israel, including Tel Aviv and Jerusalem, which have the potential to escalate and become violent. Entry/exit to Ben Gurion airport has occasionally been impacted during political demonstrations. You should check the local news before travelling to see if there have been recent clashes, be vigilant, avoid any large gatherings or demonstrations, avoid areas which have been the site of recent violence and follow the instructions of the local authorities. If you are in a location where an Israeli security operation or armed clashes are ongoing, you should stay inside and wait for the local authorities to confirm that the situation is calm before moving to a different location.
Incidents have occurred in Tel Aviv, Be’er Sheva, Hadera, Jerusalem and the Old City (particularly at and around Damascus Gate, Herod’s gate, Lion’s Gate and the Chain Gate), Nablus, Jenin, Hebron, the Jordan Valley, at Israeli checkpoints, near settlement outposts, and around Palestinian refugee camps. You should exercise particular caution when considering visiting Hebron or Palestinian refugee camps which have previously been the site of violent clashes (we advise against all but essential travel to the camps in Jenin and Nablus) settlements and settlement outposts which have been the site of recent violent incidents (e.g near Beit El, Homesh, Shilo, Evyatar, etc) and avoid such locations after dark. You should check the local news before travelling to these areas to see if there have been recent clashes and avoid areas which have been the site of recent violence.
These incidents have also occurred along Route 60 (especially junctions near Nablus), Route 443 and other West Bank arterial roads used by both Palestinians and Israelis. You should exercise extreme caution on these routes, particularly at night, and turn around if you see any signs of a disturbance.
There is a risk of increased tension around Jewish high holidays (Passover, Rosh Hashana, Yom Kippur and Succoth), during Ramadan, in particular Laylat Al Qadr (dates vary), Thursday evenings, after Friday prayers, Saturday evenings and on other religious holidays and anniversaries. This is heightened when different religious or national holidays overlap. Independence Day (14 May, Hebrew calendar dates vary), Jerusalem Day (date varies), Land Day (30 March) and Nakba Day (15 May) may be tense. Demonstrations and other forms of civil unrest can occur at short notice and often turn violent. You should exercise extreme caution: follow local media and this travel advice and avoid any demonstrations or large gatherings. See Safety and security
There are significant tensions between Israel, and the Assad regime and Iranian military forces in Syria. The situation remains fragile, with attempted and actual military exchanges either side of the border. If travelling in the area remain vigilant, follow advice from local authorities and stay informed of the security situation through the media and this travel advice.
The Overseas Business Risk service offers information and advice for British companies operating overseas on how to manage political, economic, and business security-related risks.
Local travel
Jerusalem
There are frequent demonstrations in many of the areas of the city visited by tourists including in and around the Old City (particularly at and around Damascus Gate, Herod’s Gate, Lion’s Gate and the Chain Gate), especially after Friday prayers. Some of these protests have led to violent clashes. Stay alert at all times in the Old City and leave the area if there is evidence of tension or unrest (for example if the shops in the souks suddenly begin to close their shutters). The entrances to the Old City may be subject to checks or closures.
Street protests and demonstrations can also occur elsewhere in East Jerusalem. You should be vigilant, exercise caution, avoid any demonstrations or large gatherings and follow instructions of local authorities. You should check the local news in advance and avoid areas which have been the site of recent clashes or violence.
There have been a number of violent incidents including terrorist attacks on public transport and near public transport lines in Jerusalem. Take extra care when using public transport in Jerusalem.
Tel Aviv
Take extra care when using public transport in Tel Aviv, in particular at transport hubs, and when using buses in the greater Tel Aviv area. You may wish to consider using other forms of transport.
There have also been large political demonstrations across Israel, including in Tel Aviv. Entry/exit to Ben Gurion airport has occasionally been impacted. You should check the local news before travelling.
Wider Israel
Terrorist attacks can occur anywhere in Israel.
In March and April 2022 attacks occurred in Bnei Brak, Be’er Sheva, Hadera and Tel Aviv, and attacks took place in Tel Aviv on 9 March and 7 April 2023. Rocket fire can also reach most areas of Israel. You should be vigilant, exercise caution and follow instructions of local authorities. Israel’s National Emergency Portal provides guidance and updates on developing security situations.
Gaza
The FCDO advises against all travel to Gaza (including the waters off Gaza). You should not approach the perimeter fence surrounding the Gaza Strip.
The FCDO can no longer offer routine consular assistance in Gaza. If you travel to Gaza you should review your security arrangements regularly. Protests may occur in central Gaza City and along the perimeter fence with Israel. You should exercise extreme caution and avoid demonstrations or large gatherings.
The border crossings with Israel (Erez) and Egypt (Rafah) may close with no advance notice. Check the status of the Rafah crossing into Egypt before you travel. Movement to the Rafah crossing and beyond is at your own risk.
During periods of conflict between the de facto Hamas authorities and the Israeli government, the Israeli Air Forces may launch air strikes against targets inside Gaza. There will be no warning siren inside Gaza and there are no official air raid shelters. You should take advice from locals about the safest place to shelter.
The FCDO is not able to support individuals applying for entry or exit permits for Gaza. See Entering the Occupied Palestinian Territories
The FCDO recognises the need for major international organisations to carry out humanitarian and reconstruction work and to engage in independent reporting and verification of the situation on the ground in Gaza. Medical and other essential specialist staff should co-ordinate their entry to and exit from Gaza with those organisations.
Do not attempt to enter Gaza by sea, including via a flotilla. The Israeli Navy routinely patrols the area and have made clear that it will prevent any vessels attempting to breach the restrictions. You will be detained and deported, and your electronic equipment is likely to be confiscated. The FCDO does not believe that humanitarian supplies should be delivered in this way. Anyone wishing to send humanitarian assistance or other goods to Gaza should do so through established channels.
Occupied Golan Heights
The FCDO advises against all travel within 500m of the border with Syria (the ‘Alpha Line’).
While the risks have decreased since Syrian Golan became more stable in 2018, rocket attacks and sporadic gunfire have occurred in northern Israel without warning since 2012. There is also a risk of falling debris from Israeli and Syrian air-defence systems.
Land mines have also been planted in lots of places across the Occupied Golan Heights, including near to populated areas and roads. These areas are usually marked, and are often fenced off. Follow established roads and paths, and do not hike off trail. If you are travelling in the region, follow advice from local law enforcement.
Border with Lebanon
The FCDO advises against all travel to the Sheba’a Farms and Ghajjar and within 500m of the border with Lebanon (the ‘Blue Line’) east of Metula, including the northern edge of the town. If travelling near areas of military operation, adhere to all Israeli official instructions.
The situation on the ground could change quickly. On 7 April 2023, Israel carried out strikes against targets in southern Lebanon in response to rockets launched on 6 April 2023 from southern Lebanon into Israel. On 20 July 2020 there was an exchange of fire between the militant group Hizballah and the Israeli Defence Force across the Blue Line. You should keep up to date with the news and this travel advice while travelling.
Border with Egypt
The security situation on the border with Egypt remains volatile. Take extra care and be vigilant when using Route 10 which runs along the Israeli border with Egypt and is subject to closures by the Israeli authorities. You may wish to consider using other routes.
Jenin and Nablus in the West Bank
The FCDO advises against all but essential travel to areas north of and including Jenin city, Burqin and Arranah in the north of the West Bank. This includes Jenin refugee camp and all areas north of this until the Jalamah checkpoint for access to Israel.
The FCDO also advises against all but essential travel to Nablus city, including the Balata and New Askar refugee camps and the area around Joseph’s Tomb and the village of Huwara, south of Nablus.
There are frequent clashes between Israeli Security Forces and Palestinians in these areas and violent incidents can occur without warning.
West Bank
Expect road closures and numerous checkpoints across the West Bank. Travel in and out of the West Bank is not possible without passing through at least one Israeli military checkpoint. You will need a passport and immigration slip to go through these checkpoints. Checkpoints may be closed during Israeli public holidays and periods of increased instability. Please refer to the Access Coordination Unit for information (which is subject to change).
The Israeli authorities sometimes restrict movement in and out of the West Bank, either on Jewish High Holidays, Israeli national holidays or as a result of a security incident. This doesn’t normally affect foreign nationals, but would affect dual Palestinian-British nationals. Road closures can occur with little notice. You should keep up to date with local travel updates.
The cities of Bethlehem, Ramallah and Jericho see large numbers of tourists including on organised tours and there have been no recent reports of any serious incidents involving foreigners. However, you should take care when travelling anywhere in the West Bank.
There is a risk of violent incidents, including stabbings, shootings, arson, vehicle rammings and stone throwing attacks on people and vehicles. These incidents have involved protestors (both Israelis and Palestinians), Israeli security forces and Israeli settlers. You should check the local news before travelling to see if there have been recent clashes and avoid areas which have been the site of recent violence. If you are in a location where an Israeli security operation or armed clashes are ongoing, you should stay inside and wait for the local authorities to confirm that the situation is calm before moving to a different location.
These incidents have occurred in Nablus, Jenin, Hebron, at Israeli checkpoints, around Palestinian refugee camps and along Route 60 (especially the junctions near Nablus), Route 443 and other West Bank arterial roads used by both Palestinians and Israelis. You should be vigilant, exercise caution, avoid any demonstrations or large gatherings and follow instructions of local authorities. You should check the local news in advance and avoid travelling to areas which have been the site of recent violence. You should also exercise extreme caution when driving on these routes, particularly at night.
Israelis living in the illegal settlements in the West Bank occasionally organise demonstrations in the West Bank which sometimes turn violent. There are also a number of reports of settlers threatening those travelling near to settlements and settlement outposts. Take particular care if you are near settlements, including those in the hills around Nablus and in the South Hebron hills and settlement outposts (e.g near Beit El, Homesh, Shilo, Evyatar, etc). There is a closed military zone in the H2 area of Hebron (around Ash-Shuhada Street and the Ibrahimi Mosque/Tomb of the Patriarchs), where there is a risk of a hostile reaction from members of extremist groups.
Due to a significant number of road traffic accidents involving taxis in the West Bank, you’re advised not to use them where possible. You should avoid using buses on the West Bank and keep in mind the difficulties and risks associated with travelling between Jerusalem/Ramallah via checkpoints and the risks associated with travelling along Route 60 (especially the junctions near Nablus), Route 443 and other West Bank arterial roads used by both Palestinians and Israelis.
Due to restrictions on travel, the ability of the FCDO to provide consular assistance in the West Bank may be limited.
Crime
Most visits to Israel and the Occupied Palestinian Territories are trouble-free, but the theft of passports, credit cards, and valuables from public beaches is common. Keep your personal belongings in a safe place.
Crime is generally not a problem in Israel and the Occupied Palestinian Territories, but you should take precautions to protect yourself and your belongings.
Passport security
A Serious Organised Crime Agency investigation into the misuse of UK passports in the murder of Mahmud al-Mabhuh in Dubai in January 2010 found circumstantial evidence of Israeli involvement in the fraudulent use of British passports. This has raised the possibility that your passport details could be captured for improper uses while your passport is out of your control. The risk applies in particular to passports without biometric security features. Only hand your passport over to others (including Israeli officials) when absolutely necessary.
Road travel
A green card is proof that you have vehicle insurance when driving abroad. You need to carry a green card to prove you have the minimum insurance cover in Israel and Occupied Palestinian Territories.
Driving is erratic, maintenance of public buses is variable, and there are frequent accidents. Radar speed traps operate on roads within Israel and Occupied Palestinian Territories, and fines for speeding are high.
If you intend to drive in the West Bank, check that you are insured before setting out. It may be easier to arrange West Bank insurance at a hire company in East Jerusalem than from the major hire car companies in Israel.
It is not safe to hitchhike in Israel and Occupied Palestinian Territories.
If you’re travelling to the desert, go with others, take a supply of water and a mobile phone, and let someone know your itinerary and expected time of return.
In 2019 there were 355 road deaths in the Israel (source: Department for Transport). This equates to 3.9 road deaths per 100,000 of population and compares to the UK average of 2.6 road deaths per 100,000 of population in 2019.
