Coronavirus guidance is being updated.
Read the Prime Minister’s statement for the latest information.

This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Israel and the Occupied Palestinian Territories as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Israel and the Occupied Palestinian Territories to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Israel or the Occupied Palestinian Territories
For information on entering Israel or the Occupied Palestinian Territories, see Entry requirements
On 5 March 2020 the Palestinian Authority (PA) announced a state of emergency, including closure of educational institutions, reducing movement between cities, cancellation of public gatherings and conferences, and cancellation of tourism reservations and hotel bookings. Some local measures were lifted in June but the state of emergency remains in place and you should confirm your arrangements before moving around the Occupied Palestinian Territories.
Health
You should follow the guidance from Israel’s Ministry of Health and the Palestinian Authority, and be alert to local changes.
If you show coronavirus related symptoms, call the Ministry of Health hotline on *5400 (when you hear the Hebrew message dial 2, 1, 2). After a short assessment you will be forwarded to a designated Magen David Adom (MDA) unit. MDA will coordinate a testing location with you.
Results for foreign nationals will be sent to the nearest Ministry of Health Unit. You should take note of how your name is spelt in Hebrew in the system as this will help with tracking results.
For contact details of English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Israel.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Israel or the Occupied Palestinian Territories, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, you should contact your local British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephones numbers are available 24/7.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
