This travel advice covers Israel and the Occupied Palestinian Territories
The FCDO advises against all travel to:
Gaza
the Sheba’a Farms and Ghajjar
within 500m of the border with Lebanon (the ‘Blue Line’) east of Metula, including the northern edge of the town and east of Route 98 along the Syrian border
COVID-19 entry restrictions for Israel and the Occupied Palestinian Territories
Before you travel, check the ‘Entry requirements’ section for Israel’s current entry restrictions and requirements. These may change with little warning. Monitor this advice for the latest updates and stay in contact with your travel provider.
Travelling from and returning to the UK
Check what you must do to travel abroad and return to England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
If you plan to pass through another country to return to the UK, check the travel advice for the country you’re transiting.
If you’re planning travel to Israel or the Occupied Palestinian Territories, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCDO’s guidance on foreign travel insurance.
For information about COVID-19 vaccines, see the Coronavirus page.
Make sure you are aware of Israeli immigration policies before you travel. Allow extra time for increased security measures and checks at airports during Israeli holidays and during the peak summer tourist season. See Entry requirements.
The security situation in Israel and the Occupied Palestinian Territories can be fast moving, tense and unpredictable. You should be vigilant at all times and keep up to date with local media and travel reports. You should avoid all demonstrations and large gatherings.
There have been repeated instances of rocket fire from Gaza, which may occur well beyond the Gaza border area; Israel has often responded by returning projectile fire into Gaza. If travelling in central or southern Israel, familiarise yourself with the safety actions that you should take in the event of a warning siren, follow advice from local authorities and stay informed of the security situation through the media and this travel advice. See Gaza
From 10 May 2021, Hamas and other militant groups in Gaza fired over 4000 rockets and mortars towards Israel, including southern and central Israel, Tel Aviv, and Jerusalem. The Israeli Defence Forces (IDF) responded with airstrikes into Gaza. Further rocket fire from Gaza, and IDF counterstrikes, are possible. In the event of further rocket fire, you should follow the advice of local authorities. A ceasefire came into effect on 21 May 2021.
In Israel and the West Bank, there have been numerous violent clashes between protestors and security forces and stabbing, shooting, arson, vehicle ramming and stone throwing attacks on people and vehicles. These incidents have occurred in Tel Aviv, Jerusalem and the Old City (particularly at and around Damascus Gate, Herod’s gate, Lions Gate and the Chain Gate areas of the Old City), Nablus, Hebron, at Israeli checkpoints, near settlement outposts, and around some Palestinian refugee camps. There is a risk that tourists or bystanders could be caught up in any incident. You should be vigilant, exercise caution, avoid any demonstrations and follow instructions of local authorities. You should exercise extreme caution when considering visiting Palestinian refugee camps which have previously been the site of violent clashes (particularly the camps in Jenin and Nablus) and settlement outposts which have been the site of recent violent clashes (e.g near Beit El, Shiloah, Evytar, etc) and avoid such locations after dark. In the light of recent violent clashes, you should also exercise extreme caution when considering visiting the cities of Nablus and Jenin.
These types of incidents also happen along Route 60 within the West Bank (particularly north of Ramallah and on stretches of the road near settlement outposts), along West Bank roads leading to settlement outposts and along Route 443 between Tel Aviv and Jerusalem. You should exercise extreme caution on these routes, particularly at night.
There is a risk of increased tension around Jewish high holidays (Passover, Rosh Hashana, Yom Kippur and Succoth), after Friday prayers, and on other religious holidays and anniversaries. This is heightened when different religious or national holidays overlap. Passover, Ramadan, Catholic Easter and Orthodox Easter will all coincide in April 2022. Demonstrations and other forms of civil unrest can occur at short notice and often turn violent. You should exercise extreme caution when visiting the Old City of Jerusalem, particularly Damascus Gate, and especially on Fridays and at night. See Safety and security
In April, May and June 2021, there were violent clashes between Israeli and Palestinian protestors and Israeli security forces in Jerusalem. These incidents occurred particularly in the evenings and particularly around entrances to the Old City (including Damascus Gate, Herod’s Gate, Lions’ Gate and New Gate),the Haram Al-Sharif/Temple Mount and in Sheikh Jarrah, Wadi Al Joz, and Musrara, at points along Route 60, and near Jaffa Street in West Jerusalem.
In May 2021, Arab citizens across Israel including in Lod, Haifa, Jaffa and Beersheva demonstrated against events in Jerusalem. These protests escalated to violent clashes with Israeli police forces, who used rubber-coated bullets, stun grenades and water cannons to disperse the crowds. You should exercise extreme caution and avoid any demonstrations, and follow instructions of local authorities.
In May 2021, there was also an increase in protests and security incidents in the West Bank, particularly at the boundaries between Areas A and B. Be especially vigilant and take great care at the Qalandiya checkpoint between East Jerusalem and Ramallah, in areas close to refugee camps, in and around Israeli settlements and in the cities of Jenin, Nablus, Hebron and Ramallah. There have also been several violent incidents in the northern West Bank area (north of Tappuah). Individuals carrying weapons have been arrested in Nablus.
In March 2022, there have been a number of clashes between Palestinians, Israeli security forces and Israeli settlers in the West Bank, including in Jenin and Nablus cities, in Palestinian refugee camps, near settlement outposts and along Route 60 and other West Bank arterial roads used by both Palestinians and Israelis.
Terrorists are very likely to try to carry out attacks in Israel and the Occupied Palestinian Territories. Attacks could be indiscriminate, including places frequented by foreigners including the Old City in Jerusalem, on public transport, and in busy public spaces. On 22 March 2022 a stabbing and ramming terrorist attack in Ber Sheva killed 4 Israeli civilians. On 27 March 2022, terrorists shot dead two Israelis in Hadera and on 29 March 2022, five Israelis were killed during a terrorist attack in Bne Brak. See Terrorism
There are significant tensions between Israel, and the Assad regime and Iranian military forces in Syria. The situation remains fragile, with attempted and actual military exchanges either side of the border. If travelling in the area remain vigilant, follow advice from local authorities and stay informed of the security situation through the media and this travel advice.
There are also continued tensions between Israel and Lebanon. The situation on the ground could change quickly. See Border with Lebanon
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission. Consular support is severely limited in parts of the Occupied Palestinian Territories and Occupied Golan Heights where the FCDO has existing advice against all travel (see above).
The Overseas Business Risk service offers information and advice for British companies operating overseas on how to manage political, economic, and business security-related risks.
