This travel advice covers Israel and the Occupied Palestinian Territories
Terrorists are very likely to try to carry out attacks in Israel and the Occupied Palestinian Territories.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out more about the global threat from terrorism.
Attacks could be indiscriminate, including in crowded areas, government, military and police installations and against personnel, transportation networks, businesses with Western interests. Areas where foreign nationals and tourists are known to gather may be at higher risk of attack. You should be particularly vigilant in these areas and follow any specific advice of the local security authorities.
Heightened tensions, brought about by rocket attacks from Gaza into Israel and Israeli airstrikes on Gaza, increase the risk of retaliatory terrorist attacks in Israel. You should remain vigilant at all times.
Recent incidents include:
On 15 August 2019 and 26 September 2019 there were stabbing incidents against Israeli police officers at Chain Gate, Jerusalem.
On 23 August 2019, one Israeli was killed and three were injured by an explosive device at a natural spring outside the West Bank settlement of Dolev.
On 8 August 2019, an off-duty IDF soldier was fatally stabbed outside a settlement in the Gush Etzion area of the West Bank.
On 17 March 2019, there was a stabbing and shooting incident killing one IDF soldier, one civilian and injuring one IDF solider. The incident took place near Ariel Junction in the West Bank.
On 13 December 2018, two IDF soldiers were killed and two others injured in a shooting attack at a bus stop at Givat Assaf junction.
On 9 December 2018 in Ofra, 7 people were injured at a bus stop during a drive-by shooting.
On 14 November 2018, a stabbing incident in a border police station in Jerusalem injured several IDF officers.
On 16 September 2018, an Israeli was fatally shot near a shopping center in Gush Etzion.
On 18 March 2018, an Israeli security guard died following a stabbing attack in the Old City of Jerusalem. The attacker was fatally shot by police
On 21 July 2017, three Israelis were killed during a stabbing attack in the Halamish settlement in the West Bank
On 14 July 2017, two Israeli police officers were fatally shot during an attack at Haram al Sharif/Temple Mount
On 23 April 2017, there was a stabbing incident near Atarim Square in central Tel Aviv. Four Israeli nationals were injured
On 14 April 2017, a British national was killed during a stabbing attack on the light rail system between Damascus Gate and City Hall.
There is a threat of rockets being fired into Israeli territory by extremists in the Gaza Strip and Egypt and a threat of rocket attacks, artillery or small arms fire along the border areas with Lebanon and Syria.
Be vigilant, monitor media reports and keep up to date with travel advice. Make sure you are familiar with contact details for the emergency services (in Israel - dial 100; in the West Bank and Gaza - dial 101).
There is considered to be a heightened threat of terrorist attack globally against UK interests and British nationals, from groups or individuals motivated by the conflict in Iraq and Syria. You should be vigilant at this time.
Kidnap
There is a risk of kidnap in Gaza and along the border with Egypt. The long-standing policy of the British government is not to make substantive concessions to hostage takers. The British government considers that paying ransoms and releasing prisoners increases the risk of further hostage taking.
