Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Morocco on the TravelHealthPro website.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
The Moroccan Government has announced the suspension of direct flights between Morocco and the UK (and Germany and The Netherlands) with effect from midnight 20 October. Travellers should contact their airline or tour operator for advice on their return. Alternative routes via third countries (e.g. France, Spain) are operating as normal.
If you are arriving into Morocco, you will need to provide proof that you have been fully vaccinated against COVID-19, with the second dose administered at least two weeks prior to travel, and a negative PCR test result before boarding your flight or ferry to Morocco. The result must show that the PCR test itself was undertaken no more than 48 hours before boarding. For travel by ferry, you will also need to take a COVID-19 test during the journey. Children under the age of 11 years old are exempt from the PCR testing requirement for entry into Morocco. In addition, unvaccinated or partly vaccinated visitors to Morocco must complete a 10 day controlled quarantine at one of the hotels designated by the Moroccan authorities. In this case, a PCR test must also be taken on the 9th day in Morocco. If you are a British national with Moroccan residence status, you can instead complete 5 days of self-isolation at home with a PCR test on the 5th day.
On arrival to Morocco, you will be asked to present a completed Public Health Passenger form. You can print a copy in advance of travelling.
Travellers transiting through third countries should ensure they consult FCDO Travel Advice for that country for the latest COVID-19 related travel and transit guidance.
British nationals in Morocco who require consular assistance should call the British Embassy on + 212 (0) 537 63 33 33 and follow the voice menu for “option 4 - consular assistance”.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Morocco.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Morocco
State of Health Emergency
A state of health emergency has been in place in Morocco since 20 March 2020. Public and private gatherings are permitted up to a maximum of 50 people. Hammams, public swimming pools and sports facilities are permitted to operate at 50% capacity, and restaurants, coffee shops, shops and supermarkets must close at 11pm.
A vaccine pass is required to enter public places including hammams, gyms, cafes, restaurants, hotels, shops and sports halls. A vaccine pass will also be required to access public administration buildings.
People who have received two vaccine shots through Morocco’s national vaccination scheme are able to download a vaccine pass, which enables holders to travel within and outside Morocco without restrictions, including during curfew hours. The document contains a QR code, which can be stored in digital format or printed.
Morocco will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 recovery and vaccination record at the border. If you are travelling with a printed PDF proof of vaccination status, it must date from 1 November to ensure that the certificate can be scanned successfully, if domestic certification is required. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
The wearing of face masks in public spaces remains mandatory.
Further local restrictions may be applied by local authorities in cities/prefectures/provinces or in some cases in certain neighbourhoods.
Failing to respect the rules can lead to a prison sentence of up to three months or a fine of up to MAD 1300.
Healthcare in Morocco
If you think you have COVID-19 symptoms, you should contact the Moroccan hotline COVID-19 numbers: 0801004747 OR 141 OR 300. If you need help with translation, you should call +212 (0) 537 63 33 33
Local approach to testing:
if you were in contact with a suspected or confirmed C-19 case;
if you show any symptoms;
if your company requires it.
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers .
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
If you have a British issued medical prescription and would like to get medication in Morocco, you will need to contact the nearest pharmacy. If the medication does not exist in Morocco, the pharmacy will then ask you to get another prescription from local doctors to provide you with an alternative medication that exists in the country. Pharmacies are available in every city and district and can be accessed 24/7. To find out the pharmacy that is closest to your area, please consult the following website: http://dmp.sante.gov.ma/pharmacies
View Health for further details on healthcare in Morocco
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Morocco
We will update this page when the Government of Morocco announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Moroccan national vaccination programme started in January 2021 and is using the AstraZeneca, Pfizer-BioNTech, Janssen (Johnson and Johnson) and Sinopharm vaccines. The Government of Morocco has stated that British nationals resident in Morocco are eligible for vaccination if they choose to join the programme. The Moroccan authorities have issued guidance on how to get a vaccine in Morocco (only available in French or Arabic). The guidance includes information on how you can register if you live in Morocco.
If you do not speak French or Arabic and need support accessing the vaccination campaign, you can call “Allo Liqah Corona” on: +212 (0)8 0000 0147 where English-speaking operators are also available.
You must possess a Moroccan residence card to access the vaccine programme. If you are resident in Morocco but have not formalised this with the Moroccan authorities, you can find advice on our living in Morocco page .
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in Morocco, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
The British Embassy Rabat is now open for consular appointments on Tuesdays and Thursdays.
