This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Morocco set and enforce entry rules. For further information contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to. You should also consider checking with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Restrictions in response to coronavirus
Entry and borders
The Moroccan Government re-opened the borders for commercial flights into and out of Morocco on 7 February.
To enter Morocco, passengers are required to have had three vaccine doses (or have had their second vaccine dose within the previous four months) , OR proof of a negative PCR test result, with the sample having been taken within 72 hours before boarding. Children under the age of 12 are exempt from these requirements. Children aged between 12 and 18 are exempt from the need for a third vaccine dose, but must provide proof of two doses of the vaccine, OR proof of a negative PCR test result. A single shot of the Johnson & Johnson vaccine counts as two doses.
Certificates of COVID-19 recovery are not accepted by the Moroccan authorities as an alternative to a negative PCR test result.
For those vaccinated in the UK, see ‘proof of COVID-19 vaccination record’ for information on how to obtain a vaccine pass.
For those vaccinated in Morocco, to obtain a Moroccan vaccine pass, you have to have had the vaccine booster if four months have elapsed since your second vaccine dose (or first dose for a single dose vaccine), unless you have proof of previous infection and recovery in the previous four weeks.
All passengers are required to download, print and sign a passenger health form before arrival in Morocco.
Random rapid antigen tests will be conducted upon arrival for selected groups of passengers. Additional PCR tests may also be required after 48 hours of arrival for randomly selected passengers.
Specific measures will be put in place for positive cases, including isolation at the passengers’ place of residence. More serious cases would be transferred to hospital.
Moroccan nationals aged 18 and over will require a valid vaccine pass to leave Morocco.
The Moroccan government also re-opened its maritime borders for ferry services on 8 April. The borders with Ceuta and Melilla were re-opened on 17 May.
On 14 April, the Moroccan Transport Minister announced that those travelling to Morocco by ferry would require either a valid vaccination pass or a PCR test, less than 72 hours old.
Travellers transiting through third countries should ensure they consult FCDO Travel Advice for that country for the latest COVID-19 related travel and transit guidance.
British nationals in Morocco who require consular assistance should call the British Embassy on + 212 (0) 537 63 33 33 and follow the voice menu for “option 4 for consular assistance”.
Demonstrating your COVID-19 status
Morocco will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 vaccination record at the border. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
For details on how to demonstrate your COVID-19 status in domestic settings in Morocco, see the Coronavirus page.
Regular entry requirements
Visas
British nationals don’t need a visa to enter Morocco for the purpose of tourism for up to 3 months.
When entering the country, make sure your passport is stamped. Some tourists have experienced difficulties leaving the country because their passport bears no entry stamp.
Passport validity
Your passport should be valid for the proposed duration of your stay in Morocco. However, the Moroccan Consulate General in London advise that your passport should be valid for at least 3 months on your date of entry to Morocco. If your passport does not meet this requirement you may face difficulties and you should check with the Moroccan authorities and your travel provider before travelling.
Before travelling, make sure your passport isn’t damaged. Some travellers have been refused entry when travelling on damaged passports.
Moroccan citizens who reside in the UK and travel to Morocco, may not be allowed to return to the UK unless they present evidence of their UK immigration status. This can include their UK biometric residence permit card or a valid UK entry clearance.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents are accepted for entry to, airside transit, and exit from, Morocco.
Stolen or lost British passports in Morocco should be reported to local police, who should provide you with a written report. This may need to be shown to airport authorities if you plan to leave Morocco on an Emergency Travel Document.
Western Sahara
See our travel advice for Western Sahara if you plan to travel to this disputed territory.
Algerian border
The land border between Algeria and Morocco is closed. Don’t attempt to cross it.
Arriving by private boat
If you’re arriving by private boat, you must enter the country at a recognised port of entry. Entry through other ports will be considered illegal.
