At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
Coronavirus
There is an ongoing outbreak of coronavirus (COVID-19) and cases have been confirmed in Morocco.
As of midnight 15 March, flights between Morocco and 31 other countries will be suspended. Flights to and from the UK will be suspended from midnight 16 March. Passenger ferry links between Morocco and Spain and Gibraltar have already been suspended. If you are already in country, you should urgently contact your airline or tour operator and arrange to leave as soon as possible.
The Moroccan authorities have introduced a number of measures to limit the spread of the virus. Schools, universities and all public amenities and public spaces, including theatres, cinemas, gyms and swimming pools have been shut to the general public.
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
You can find more information about cases in Morocco on the TravelHealthPro website.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. Moroccan Customs don’t have a list of prohibited products, but they do advise anyone travelling with prescription medication to make sure they have a copy of the doctor’s prescription which covers the medication and quantity carried. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you should contact the Moroccan Embassy.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Other health risks
Henna tattoos are common in Morocco. Some henna tattoos contain the chemical para-phenylenediamine (PPD) which can cause a painful allergic reaction including swelling and an itchy rash in some people.
Local medical care
Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 150 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
