On the 20 March 2020, Morocco entered a State of Health Emergency and internal movement restrictions have been imposed. See coronarvirus
Morocco is a Muslim country which follows Islamic laws and customs. Be aware of your actions to ensure they don’t offend, especially during the holy month of Ramadan or if you intend to visit religious areas. You should respect local traditions, customs, laws and religions at all times. See Travelling during Ramadan.
Avoid public displays of affection, particularly outside the main tourist areas and near religious places.
Sexual relations outside marriage are punishable by law. It’s not uncommon for hotels to ask couples to show evidence of marriage at the time of check-in and, if such evidence is not available, to insist on separate rooms.
Homosexuality is a criminal offence in Morocco. Be sensitive to local laws and customs and avoid public displays of affection. Complaints can lead to prosecution. See our information and advice page for the LGBT community before you travel.
Women, especially when travelling alone, may receive unwanted attention from men. To minimise hassle, you may choose to wear loose-fitting clothing which cover the arms, legs and chest. See our information and advice page for women before you travel.
Alcohol is served in licensed hotels, bars and in tourist areas. However, drinking alcohol in the street and anywhere other than a licensed restaurant or bar isn’t allowed and can lead to arrest.
Possession, use or trafficking in illegal drugs is a serious offence and can result in a lengthy prison sentence and a heavy fine.
If you’re travelling to Morocco to marry a Moroccan national, make sure you have the correct documentation.
It’s illegal in Morocco to send passports through the post. British passports sent to or through Morocco by post or courier companies will be confiscated by the Moroccan authorities.
It is against the law to carry bibles in Arabic, to attempt to distribute any non-Muslim or evangelical literature, or to be involved in any such activity.
Avoid taking any photographs near sensitive political or military sites.
You’ll need permission from the authorities to fly a drone. Contact the Moroccan Civil Aviation Authority for more information about the rules. In 2016, a number of British nationals were fined and had their passports confiscated for flying drones without permission.
It’s illegal to possess pornographic material.
