Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

There are currently no scheduled commercial options available to return to the UK from Morocco. As of 11.59pm on 15 March, flights between Morocco and 31 other countries were suspended. Normal flights to and from the UK were suspended from 11.59pm on 16 March.
Passenger ferry links between Morocco and Spain and Gibraltar have also been suspended.
We know this is concerning for British people trying to leave Morocco. The UK government is working closely with airlines, the Moroccan authorities and other governments to make sure options are available for you to return to the UK as soon as possible.
What to do
If you cannot leave Morocco at this time, you should:
Follow the advice of local authorities, including local measures to help minimise your risk of exposure to coronavirus
Find accommodation that’s suitable for your needs.
Keep in regular contact with friends and family at home, so they know you are safe and well
See more information and advice about staying where you are if you cannot return to the UK.
Future options
The British Embassy Rabat is in contact with airlines, the Moroccan authorities and other governments to explore possibilities of commercial flights and boat journeys leaving Morocco.
If you are a British tourist in Morocco and need to return to the UK, send an email to morocco.britishsupport@fco.gov.uk. You will need to provide the following details:
Full name (as written in passport)
Date and place of birth
British passport number, date of issue, and date of expiry
Do you hold another nationality? If yes, please specify. Please include the passport number for your second nationality.
Current location in Morocco (city/town)
Are you normally resident in Morocco? If yes, address in Morocco.
What date did you arrive in Morocco?
Address in UK
Reason for being in Morocco (work, family visit, tourism etc) Specify please.
Are you in a hotel? If yes, please give contact details of hotel.
Are you in a campervan? If yes, please give details of camping site.
Are you able to stay in quarantine with family/friends in Morocco?
When were you planning to leave Morocco? Do you have a flight cancellation reference and details of flight that was cancelled? Please provide name of airline and booking ref.
Please provide us with your email address and phone number where we can get in touch with you.
Do you have any special circumstances that make you particularly vulnerable, eg. Pregnant, elderly, young children, underlying health condition? Specify please.
The British Embassy cannot provide individual responses to emails but, if we are able to find availability on a flight for you, we will get in touch. All emails will generate an automatic reply to confirm the details we need from you and to acknowledge receipt.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, please email Consular Services at the British Embassy in Rabat at morocco.britishsupport@fco.gov.uk.
Follow the British Embassy Rabat on Twitter and Facebook for the latest available information.
Arrival in the UK
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Further information
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
