Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. You should remain vigilant at all times.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Morocco
Terrorists are very likely to try to carry out attacks in Morocco.
Two tourists were murdered while hiking near Mount Toubkal in 2018. Moroccan authorities arrested four individuals in connection with the murders, including one who had links to “an extremist group”.
There is an increased threat linked to the number of Moroccans sympathetic or belonging to Daesh (formerly ISIL) and other extremist groups. Authorities regularly disrupt terrorist cells.
Places at higher risk of attack include:
crowded areas
government installations
transportation networks
businesses with Western interests
areas where foreign nationals and tourists are known to gather
Be vigilant in these areas and follow any specific advice of the local security authorities.
Protective security measures, including security guards, may be present in areas, including hotels and sites popular with tourists.
Kidnap
While there have been no recent kidnappings of foreign nationals in Morocco, it cannot be ruled out. There is a threat of kidnapping by groups operating in North Africa, particularly from:
Libya
Mauritania
groups originating in the Sahel
This includes Al Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb (AQ-IM) and Daesh-affiliated groups, who may travel illegally across the border. There is a heightened risk of kidnap in the border and remote desert areas of North Africa. This has been done for financial gain and for political leverage.
Terrorist groups have kidnapped:
foreigners
government officials
civilians
Those working in the tourism, humanitarian aid work, journalism or business sectors are viewed as legitimate targets. If you’re kidnapped, the reason for your presence is unlikely to serve as a protection or secure your safe release.
The policy of the British Government is not to make substantive concessions to hostage takers. The British Government considers that paying ransoms and releasing prisoners increases the risk of further hostage taking. The Terrorism Act (2000) also makes payments to terrorists illegal.
Political situation
Protests can happen at short notice across the country and are generally heavily policed. Demonstrations are mostly peaceful but there has been isolated violence.
Follow any media reporting and instructions from local security authorities. Avoid political gatherings and demonstrations
Borders
Western Sahara
See our travel advice for Western Sahara if you plan to travel to this disputed territory.
Algerian border
The land border between Algeria-Morocco is closed. Don’t attempt to cross it.
Crime
Protecting your belongings
Incidents of violent crime occasionally happen. There have been incidents involving the use of knives against tourists in street attacks, thefts and burglaries in major cities and along beaches. Avoid quiet areas, particularly after dark. Don’t carry large amounts of money or valuables around with you.
Petty crime
Petty crime is common, especially in tourist areas like the medina quarter (historical district) of towns/cities and on beaches. Crimes include:
pickpocketing
bag snatching
drive-by motorcycle theft of visible jewellery and handbags
Be vigilant when asking for directions and using ATMs as crime and aggressive begging can happen. Credit card fraud and scams like substituting inferior goods for those that were bought are common. Remain alert to potential confidence tricks.
Harassment of tourists
Harassment of tourists by people posing as official tourist guides is common.
When visiting the medina quarter (historical district) of a town or city, make sure any guide you use is operating with the agreement of the local tourist authorities, and displays an official badge.
Marriage fraud
Be cautious when travelling to Morocco for a relationship, or to meet someone you met on the internet. There have been incidents of marriage fraud and attempted extortion affecting British nationals. Make sure you keep your return ticket, passport and personal belongings safe.
Laws and cultural differences
Islamic laws and customs
Morocco is a Muslim country, which follows Islamic laws and customs. You should:
be aware of your actions to ensure they don’t offend, especially during the holy month of Ramadan or if you intend to visit religious areas (see below)
respect local traditions, customs, laws and religions
avoid public displays of affection, particularly outside the main tourist areas and near religious places
Sexual relations outside marriage are punishable by law. Hotels can ask couples to show evidence of marriage while checking-in and, if you don’t have proof, they can insist on separate rooms.
Ramadan
Ramadan is a holy month for Muslims. The dates vary by year and country, check when Ramadan is in Morocco before you go. During this time, do not:
eat, drink, smoke or chew gum in public in the daytime, including in your car
play loud music or dance
swear in public
Get more advice when you arrive from your tour guide, hotel or business contacts.
You should also:
check opening hours of shops and restaurants
be aware that if hotels and restaurants are providing food or drink in fasting hours, they may separate you from Islamic guests, for example with screens
follow local dress codes – clothing that doesn’t meet local dress codes may cause more offence at this time
be aware that driving may be erratic, particularly when people are trying to get home at dusk
LGBT+ travellers
Homosexuality is illegal in Morocco. Be sensitive to local laws and customs and avoid public displays of affection. Complaints can lead to prosecution. See FCDO  advice for LGBT+ travellers .
Women travellers
Women, especially when travelling alone, may receive unwanted attention from men. Consider wearing loose-fitting clothing which cover the arms, legs and chest. See our FCDO advice for woman travellers.
Alcohol laws and bans
Alcohol is served in licensed hotels, bars and in tourist areas. Drinking alcohol in the street and anywhere other than a licensed restaurant or bar is illegal and can lead to arrest.
Illegal drugs and prison sentences
Possession, use or trafficking in illegal drugs is a serious offence and can result in a lengthy prison sentence and a heavy fine.
Sending passports in the post
In Morocco, it’s illegal to send passports through the post. British passports sent to or through Morocco by post or courier companies will be confiscated by the Moroccan authorities.
Bibles and religious literature
It is illegal to carry bibles in Arabic, to attempt to distribute any non-Muslim or evangelical literature, or to be involved in any such activity.
Using cameras
Avoid taking any photographs near sensitive political or military sites.
Pornographic material
It’s illegal to possess pornographic material. Possession of recorded writings, printed matter, cassettes and videocassettes and any type of material contrary to morality and public order are prohibited in the Moroccan territory.
Flying drones
You’ll need permission from the authorities to fly a drone. Contact the Directorate General for Civial Aviation (in French) for more information about the rules.
Transport risks
Road travel
If you’re planning to hire a car, check with your car hire company for information on their requirements before you travel.
Many taxis bookable via mobile phone apps may be unregulated and unlicensed. Drivers may not be registered with the authorities and their vehicle may not have the appropriate levels of insurance for carrying passengers. Such taxis may at times be stopped by the police, who may ask you get out of the car.
You should:
think carefully before using such unregulated or unlicensed taxis
use normal ‘Petits’ or ‘Grands Taxis’ where possible
avoid sharing taxis with other passengers that you do not know
insist against sharing if your driver tries to pick up other passengers during your journey
International Driving Permit
You need either a 1968 International Driving Permit (IDP) or a valid UK driving licence to drive in Morocco for up to one year. 1949 IDP is not accepted anymore. You cannot buy an IDP outside the UK, so get one before you travel. You can buy an IDP in person from some UK post offices - find your nearest post office branch that offers this service.
If you are staying in Morocco for longer than one year, you need to apply for a Moroccan Driving License.
Car insurance
A green card, which can be obtained from your car insurer, is proof that you have vehicle insurance when driving abroad. You need to carry a green card to prove you have the minimum insurance cover in Morocco.
Road conditions
Drive carefully, especially when:
driving at night, which be particularly dangerous due to poor lighting
the weather conditions are poor on secondary routes and mountain roads
overtaking lorries and trucks that are overloaded and when there is no hard shoulder
Road accidents
If you’re involved in a road accident, complete a form (‘constat amiable’), to be signed by both parties. Blank forms are available on arrival at Tangier port from the insurance company booths and from tobacconists in all cities.
If you’re involved in a road accident resulting in a fatality and the Moroccan authorities consider you responsible, you may be detained pending a trial hearing.
Vehicle documentation
If you enter Morocco with a vehicle, the registration number will be recorded. If you’re not in possession of the same vehicle when leaving Morocco, you’ll be refused exit and detained. You’ll need to provide evidence of motor insurance to border control when entering and exiting Morocco. Always carry your insurance, license and registration documents with you.
Extreme weather and natural disasters
Earthquakes
Morocco is in an earthquake zone. Minor earthquakes happen occasionally. The last major earthquake was in 2004, which killed 600 people. Familiarise yourself with safety procedures in the event of an earthquake and take note of any instructions in hotel rooms.
There is more information on what to do during an earthquake on the US Centres for Disease Control and Prevention website.
Flooding
Heavy rain can cause flash flooding in some areas, particularly in the mountains or near rivers during winter months. Walking and driving can be dangerous in flooded areas. If flooding does happen in your area, follow local media and instructions of the local authorities.
