This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Morocco as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Morocco to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Morocco
For information on entering Morocco, see Entry Requirements
State of Health Emergency
The Moroccan Government announced on 9 June a further extension to the State of Health Emergency until 10 July, along with details of its strategy for easing restrictive measures. The strategy, which comes into effect from 11 June, categorises provinces/prefectures in Morocco into two zones according to the pandemic situation in each province/prefecture. Economic and industrial activities (some of which have already resumed) as well as small businesses will reopen, but restaurants and coffee shops (unless for takeaway/delivery), Turkish baths, cinemas and theatres remain closed. The wearing of face masks in public spaces remains mandatory.
Zone 1
Residents of prefectures and provinces categorised as zone 1 will be allowed to move within the borders of their prefecture/province without the need to show an an exceptional certificate of movement. Public transport, hairdressing and beauty salons can operate, but will have to limit their capacity to 50%. Public parks and gardens will reopen and individual exercising (running, walking and biking) will be permitted after 11 June in zone 1 prefectures/provinces, but gatherings, including those for wedding celebrations or funerals, remain prohibited.
Whilst residents of these prefectures/provinces will be permitted to circulate freely without the need for a permit, this only applies within their administrative borders. A permit will still be required to move to a different prefecture/province (even if both are categorised as zone 1.
Zone 2
For residents of prefectures and provinces categorised as zone 2, an exceptional certificate of movement is still required to travel to work or go shopping. Opening hours for businesses and shops have been extended to close at 8pm. Gatherings, including for wedding celebrations or funerals, remain prohibited.
The Moroccan authorities review the categorisation of prefectures/provinces on a weekly basis. Below is the latest list.
Zone 1
  Prefecture and provinces of the Oriental Prefecture of M’diq-Fnideq Province of Taza
  Provinces of the Beni Mellal-Khenifra region Province of Tetouan Province of Khemisset
  Provinces of the Draa-Tafilalet region Province of Fahs-Anjra Sidi Kacem Province
  Prefectures and provinces of the Souss-Massa region Province of Al-Hoceima Province of Sidi Slimane
  Province of Chefchaouen Province of Sidi Slimane Province of Ouezzane
  Province of Settat Prefecture of Meknes Province of Sidi Bennour
  Ifrane Province Chichaoua Province Province of Al-Haouz
  Province of Moulay Yaacoub Province of Kelaa of Sraghna Province of Sefrou
  Essaouira Province Province of Boulmane Rehamna Province
  Province of Taounate Province of Safi Province of Youssoufia
Zone 2
  Prefecture of Tangier-Assilah Prefecture of Casablanca
  Larache Province Prefecture of Mohammedia
  Prefecture of Fez Province of El Jadida
  El Hajeb Province Nouaceur Province
  Prefecture of Rabat Province of Mediouna
  Prefecture of Skhirate-Temara Province of Benslimane
  Province of Kenitra Berrechid Province
    Prefecture of Marrakech
If you need to obtain an “exceptional certificate of movement”, you will need to:
visit this Moroccan Ministry of Interior website, and download the certificate. This is an official certificate and exists only in Arabic
complete the certificate with the necessary details of movement, and sign it
give it the nearest local government representative to countersign it
carry the authorised certificate with you
If you do not read/write Arabic, you may wish to ask hotel staff or a trusted local companion to assist you with completing the certificate.
Schools, universities and all public amenities and public spaces, including theatres, cinemas, gyms and swimming pools have been shut to the general public. Restaurants and bars have been closed, but food delivery services continue to operate.
The Moroccan authorities have announced that wearing a mask outside your home is now mandatory. Failing to respect the rules can lead to a prison sentence of up to three months or a fine of up to MAD 1300.
Visas
The Interior Ministry has issued instructions to regional authorities to ensure that anyone overstaying their visa due to the border closure will be able to leave without penalty when the borders re-open.
Health
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Morocco
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Morocco, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
You can find more information about cases in Morocco on the TravelHealthPro website.
