The FCDO advises against all but essential travel to:
The whole of Morocco based on the current assessment of COVID-19 risks.
Travel to Morocco is subject to entry restrictions
With effect from midnight on 20 December, the Moroccan Government suspended until further notice all direct flights between Morocco and the UK following the emergence of a new strain of COVID-19 in the UK. Passengers arriving in Morocco by air, travelling from the UK via a third country are also not allowed to enter Morocco. British nationals who were planning to travel between the two countries should contact their airlines, ferry and/or tour operators for further information
If you’re eligible to enter (once current entry restrictions have been lifted), you will have to provide a negative PCR test result before boarding your flight or ferry to Morocco. The result must show that the PCR test itself was undertaken less than 72 hours before the time of departure
See Entry requirements for more information before you plan to travel.
Preparing for your return journey to the UK
If you’re returning to the UK from overseas, you will need to:
provide your journey and contact details before you travel
check if you need to self-isolate on your return
If your return journey to the UK transits another country, you should check whether it is subject to a travel ban or any other additional requirements. If so, contact your travel provider.
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
If you’re planning travel to Morocco, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCDO’s guidance on foreign travel insurance.
For information about COVID-19 vaccines, see the Coronavirus page.
Almost 700,000 visitors from the UK come to Morocco every year. Most visits are trouble-free.
Morocco is a Muslim country which follows Islamic laws and customs. You should respect these at all times. See Local laws and customs
Terrorists are very likely to try to carry out attacks in Morocco. You should be vigilant at all times. See Terrorism
Protests take place occasionally across the country. Most of these are peaceful, but you should take sensible security precautions and avoid all demonstrations. See Political situation
Morocco has a poor road safety record. See Road travel
If you’re travelling to Western Sahara, you should read our travel advice for this disputed territory.
Following the attack on the coalition base at Taji in Iraq on 11 March, and subsequent US airstrikes, tensions may be raised across the region. There is a possibility of an increased threat against Western interests, including against UK citizens. You should remain vigilant and keep up to date with the latest developments, including via the media and this travel advice.
The Overseas Business Risk service offers information and advice for British companies operating overseas on how to manage political, economic, and business security-related risks.
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.
