The Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) provides advice about risks of travel to help British nationals make informed decisions. Find out more about FCDO travel advice. 
Where FCDO advises against travel or is aware of an incident that raises the risk for British nationals information will be provided here.
On Friday 8 September 2023 an earthquake of magnitude 6.8 struck Morocco near Marrakesh. Further aftershocks are possible. You should follow the advice of local authorities, and follow local media.
All Moroccan airports are open and flights to and from the UK are operating normally, with some airlines laying on additional seats for travellers wishing to return to the UK earlier than planned. Travellers wishing to change their flight plans should liaise direct with their tour operators or airline companies.  If you are planning to travel to Morocco imminently we advise you check with your accommodation provider / tour operator to confirm arrangements before departure in case of disruption or damage resulting from the earthquake.
If you are trying to get in touch with a family member or a friend or the FCDO to share updates, be aware that telephone networks in Morocco are subject to outages. Should you require consular assistance please call the British Embassy Rabat +212 (0) 537 63 33 33 and select the menu option for consular services, or call the FCDO +44 (0) 207 008 5000.
There have been wildfires in the vicinity of Tangier. Wildfires are highly dangerous and unpredictable. Follow local guidance.
Before you travel
No travel can be guaranteed safe. Read all the advice in this guide as well as support for British nationals abroad which includes:
advice on preparing for travel abroad and reducing risks
information for women, LGBT+ and disabled travellers
Follow and contact FCDO travel on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram. You can also sign up to get email notifications when this advice is updated.
Travel insurance
If you choose to travel, research your destinations and get appropriate travel insurance. Insurance should cover your itinerary, planned activities and expenses in an emergency.
