This page has information on travelling to the Republic of Palau.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport from the UK, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Palau set and enforce entry rules. If you’re unsure how Palau’s entry requirements apply to you, contact its UK embassy, high commission or consulate.
All travellers
All travellers to Palau must be fully vaccinated against COVID-19, except those under 12 years of age. You are advised to practice social distancing, wear a mask over the nose and mouth when within six feet of others, and avoid large indoor gatherings for fourteen (14) days prior to their travel to Palau.
If you’re fully vaccinated
If you’re fully vaccinated, you can enter Palau without needing to quarantine. However, for the first four days upon arrival, you will need to restrict your movement to the following activities: essential work, grocery shopping, banking, accessing medical care, food pick-up, and accessing pandemic certified services and establishments. On Day 4, you will be required to appear at a designated health facility to take a mandatory COVID-19 PCR test.
At least 14 days must have passed since your second dose of the vaccine before you are allowed entry into Palau and the vaccine must be approved by either the US Food and Drug Administration or the World Health Organisation. The vaccine called Medigen, which is authorised by the health authorities of Taiwan, is also accepted.
Find out if you qualify as fully vaccinated in Palau by reading through the latest entry directive from the Ministry of Health and Human Service.
Before departing for Palau, you will also need to present one of the following:
Proof of a negative result from a COVID-19 PCR test taken within 3 days before departure from the point of origin
Proof of a negative result from a WHO or US FDA-approved COVID-19 antigen test taken within 1 day before departure from the point of origin
Documentation of recovery from COVID-19 which includes proof of a recent positive viral test and a letter from a healthcare provider or a public health official stating that traveller has recovered from COVID-19 and is cleared to travel.
Proof of vaccination status
You must present proof that you have been fully vaccinated to enter Palau.
Palau will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 vaccination record and proof of COVID-19 vaccination issued in the Crown Dependencies. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
Other acceptable proof of vaccination are:
world Health Organization International Certificate of Vaccination and Prophylaxis;
VaxCertPH certification if you were vaccinated in the Philippines; and
the national or state digital certificate of a country which has accepted VaxCertPH under a reciprocal arrangement if you were vaccinated elsewhere overseas.
If you’re not fully vaccinated
If you’re not fully vaccinated, you will not be allowed entry into Palau unless you receive an exemption from the Director of the Ministry of Health and Human Services who will decide on an individual and case-by-case basis.
If you’ve had COVID-19 in the past year
If you’re not fully vaccinated and have tested positive for COVID-19 in the last year you cannot enter Palau.
However, if you are fully vaccinated and tested positive for COVID-19, you can enter Palau, provided that you submit proof of a recent positive viral test and a letter from a healthcare provider or a public health official stating that you have recovered from COVID-19 and are cleared to travel.
Residents of Taiwan
A special agreement exists between Palau and Taiwan where residents from Taiwan may enter Palau without being required to provide proof of vaccination and a negative pre-departure COVID-19 test. Travellers must have no prior history of COVID-19 infection, no close contact with any person who is under investigation for COVID-19, no close contact with a laboratory-confirmed COVID-19 case, and no close contact with a person under a self-isolation, home quarantine, or self-monitoring order for the last two months. Travellers must also have no travel history outside of Taiwan within the last 14 days prior to departure.
On Day 4 upon arrival in Palau, travellers are still required to appear at a designated health facility to take a mandatory COVID-19 PCR test
Children and young people
Unvaccinated children under 12 years of age are permitted to enter Palau, but they must follow the other entry requirements stated above.
Children under 3 years of age are exempted from the requirement of being tested for COVID-19 prior to travel to Palau
Exemptions
Any exemptions to the specified entry requirements must be secured from the Director of the Ministry of Health and Human Services who will decide on an individual and case-by-case basis.
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
Passport validity
If you are visiting Palau, your passport should be valid for period of 6 months from the date you arrive.
If you are a resident in Palau, your passport must be valid for 6 months from the date you arrive.
Check with your travel provider to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Visas
You can travel to Palau for up to 30 days without a visa. You should contact the Bureau of Immigration before you travel if you’re likely to seek an extension of stay.
Bureau of Immigration
Phone: (+680) 488 2498 or 2678 (Monday to Friday from 8:00am to 5:00pm)
Email imm@palaunet.com
