

Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.    
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Palau
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Palau, attacks cannot be ruled out.
Crime
Protecting your belongings
Crime levels are low, and you’re more likely to experience theft of unattended items than confrontational crime. Take sensible precautions to protect your belongings and keep your accommodation secure.
Scams
There has been an increase in credit card fraud. This may include credit card skimming devices or other types of data theft. Take care when paying with credit cards or withdrawing money from ATMs.
Laws and cultural differences
Illegal drugs and prison sentences
There are heavy penalties for all drug offences. If you’re convicted of possessing even a small amount of an illegal drug, you could get a fine or a prison sentence.
Alcohol laws
The legal drinking age in Palau is 21 years. It is illegal to drink alcohol in public, except on licensed premises.
Outdoor activities and adventure tourism
Unexploded bombs and weapons
There are unexploded World War 2 bombs and weapons in Palau. There is a higher risk on the islands of Peleliu and Angaur, where there were major battles in the Pacific campaign.
Be alert to the risk if exploring caves or hiking off main routes. Do not touch anything that appears to be made of metal. Take pictures and report anything out of the ordinary to the authorities. 
Swimming and diving safety
Take local advice before swimming or diving from high rocks. There are over 60 vertical drop-offs in the diving areas and some are for experienced divers only.
Ensure you have comprehensive travel insurance that includes medical evacuation and covers your planned activities.
See water safety on holiday from the Royal Life Saving Society.
Scuba diving
Diving school standards are not always as high as in the UK. You should:
check a dive operator’s credentials
make sure you’re covered by insurance
make sure safety equipment is available on the boat, particularly oxygen
ask about safety precautions, including the ability to transfer divers to Palau’s only hyperbaric chamber
The hyperbaric chamber is at the Belau National Hospital in Koror, less than 2 hours from most locations. 
If you have not had any previous diving experience:
ask your dive instructor to explain what cover they offer before signing up
check what to do if something goes wrong, including how to call for help while at sea
Reef-toxic sunscreen
It’s illegal to use reef-toxic sunscreen in Palau. Permitted sunscreens generally have an active ingredient of zinc oxide or titanium dioxide.
There are penalties for selling reef-toxic sunscreen.
Transport risks
Road travel
If you are planning to drive in Palau, see information on driving abroad.
You can use a UK photocard driving licence to drive in Palau for up to 30 days. If you still have a paper driving licence, you may need to update it to a photocard licence or get the correct version of the international driving permit (IDP) as well. After 30 days you must apply for a Palauan driving licence.
Road conditions
Main roads are in reasonable condition. Inland roads may be narrow and damaged by flooding during the summer months. It’s illegal to overtake on Palauan roads, but drivers often overtake with poor safety awareness.
In rural areas roads have limited signage and hazard warnings. Avoid driving after dark, as roads are unlit and you could hit people or livestock.
Drink-driving is a common cause of accidents. Watch out for erratic driving, particularly at night and weekends.
Extreme weather and natural disasters
Rainy season and flooding
Palau is vulnerable to tropical cyclones and floods. There is higher rainfall from April to November, peaking in July and August. Severe downpours can cause floods and damage roads. 
Monitor local and international weather updates from the World Meteorological Organization and the Japanese Meteorological Agency and follow any instructions issued by the local authorities.
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to tropical cyclones.
