Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Seychelles on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Seychelles.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements. You should contact the Ministry of Health for information on testing facilities.
From 4am on Saturday 9 January, visitors arriving into the UK who have been in or transited through Seychelles in the previous 10 days will not be permitted entry. British and Irish citizens, and third country nationals with residence rights in the UK arriving in the UK from Seychelles need to self-isolate on their return. Check the latest guidance for England, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales.
From 1 January onwards those with residence rights includes: holders of Indefinite Leave to Remain; holders of existing leave to enter or remain (that is those with biometric Residence permits) or an entry clearance/visa that grants such leave like students and workers (excluding visit visas); holders of EU Settlement Scheme (“EUSS”) leave; those who have rights of entry under the Withdrawal Agreements (including returning residents with a right of residence under the EEA Regulations and EEA frontier workers); family members of EEA nationals with rights under the Withdrawal Agreement.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
If you test positive for COVID-19 before returning to the UK
The Government of Seychelles does not routinely require travellers to take a PCR test before departure. Airlines or final destinations, however, may require it, and you should check the requirements if necessary. Visitors who develop symptoms of a possible respiratory infection will be referred to health services for further assessment and testing. You can expect to be contacted by the authorities in Seychelles if you test positive for COVID-19. If you display severe symptoms, particularly if you are in an at-risk category, then you may be cared for at a government-run facility.
Symptomatic Cases
The Seychelles Department of Foreign Affairs and Tourism has produced a travel advisory which details the standard procedures for visitors who develop symptoms. Visitors who develop symptoms of possible respiratory infection (fever, cough, shortness of breath, or loss of smell/taste) will be referred to the health services for further assessment. If a visitor is found to be infected with COVID-19, the Public Health Authority requires that the person is isolated from the population and other visitors until recovery from infection. Symptomatic cases, especially for those in ‘high-risk’ categories will be cared for in a health-managed isolation facility.
Asymptomatic Cases
Asymptomatic/mildly symptomatic cases must undergo isolation at a certified tourism accommodation establishment at their own cost.
People who are asymptomatic throughout their self-isolation can expect to self-isolate for 10 days, while mildly symptomatic visitors must self-isolate for 14 days. Guests may not change accommodation during a period of self-isolation without the permission of the Public Health Authority.
If parents are required to self-isolate, then minors will be expected to stay with them or with other family members. Unaccompanied minors (i.e. under 18 years of age) will normally be treated as adults.
If you are travelling with children, you should contact the Seychelles Ministry of Health before you travel to confirm you are satisfied with the procedures in place should you be required to self-isolate during your stay.
Travel in Seychelles
The Government of Seychelles has extended COVID-19 restrictions across the country until further notice.
The Ministry of Health in Seychelles issues new and additional measures on the Ministry of Health website and on Ministry of Health social media channels.
If you’re living in Seychelles or intend to travel to Seychelles, you’re strongly advised to familiarise yourself with these measures and to follow public health guidelines. You should avoid travelling unnecessarily within the country, including between islands. You should wear a mask and observe social distancing at all times when in public.
Accommodation
Some hotels are open across Seychelles. If you have made a booking, you should make contact with your tour operator or hotel proprietor before travelling to Seychelles.
Public spaces and services
The Government of Seychelles has introduced new restrictions on the use of public spaces and services, following an increase in the number of coronavirus cases in Seychelles. These measures will remain in place until further notice.
A nationwide curfew is in place from 11pm to 4am. You should not travel outside your accommodation between these times without authorisation. Restrictions on movement are reviewed regularly.
House parties are not permitted and no gatherings of more than four persons, indoors or outdoors, including on beaches and in public places, are allowed.
All shops, bars and casinos will close at 7pm until further notice.
On 20 May, the Government of Seychelles extended the closure of all schools until 31 May. Restrictions are enforceable by law and can change at short notice. You should consult the Ministry of Health in Seychelles for further information and monitor local media for the latest developments.
Healthcare in Seychelles
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
If you think you have COVID-19 symptoms, you should contact the Seychelles Department of Health hotline immediately by dialling 141.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Seychelles.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 Vaccines if you live in Seychelles
Wherever possible British nationals should aim to be vaccinated in the country where they live. As further information is available about the national vaccination programme, this page will be updated. Sign up to get email notifications.
The Ministry of Health has published information on vaccines available in Seychelles on their vaccination FAQs page. You should contact the Ministry of Health if you wish to arrange an appointment to receive a vaccine in Seychelles.
The Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) is the UK authority responsible for assessing the safety, quality and efficacy of vaccines. It has authorised the Pfizer/BioNTech, Oxford/AstraZeneca and Moderna vaccines for temporary supply and use in the UK. Find out more about MHRA approval for these vaccines.
British nationals living overseas should seek medical advice from their local healthcare provider in the country where they reside. Information about vaccines used in other national programmes, including regulatory status, should be available from the local authorities. This list of Stringent Regulatory Authorities recognised by the World Health Organisation may also be a useful source of additional information. Find out more about COVID-19 vaccines on the World Health Organisation COVID-19 vaccines page.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further advice on coronavirus is available from the NHS and on the TravelHealthPro website.
