The information on this page covers the most common types of travel and reflects the UK government’s understanding of the rules currently in place. Unless otherwise stated, this information is for travellers using a full ‘British Citizen’ passport.
The authorities in the country or territory you’re travelling to are responsible for setting and enforcing the rules for entry. If you’re unclear about any aspect of the entry requirements, or you need further reassurance, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
You should also consider checking with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Entry rules in response to coronavirus (COVID-19)
New measures in place from 3 January until further notice
Following an increase in the number of coronavirus cases in Seychelles, the Government of Seychelles has introduced new measures, which include restrictions on entry to Seychelles. There are separate entry requirements for vaccinated and non-vaccinated travellers and for visitors and residents. You should familiarise yourself with the entry requirements that apply to you by visiting the Government of Seychelles Department of Tourism website
The Government of Seychelles has announced that, with effect from Monday 28 December, the United Kingdom will no longer feature on the list of countries from which visitors may travel to Seychelles. However, there is an exception to this rule for individuals who have been vaccinated against COVID-19. If you have received a complete course of COVID-19 vaccination (including a second dose for vaccines that require two doses) at least two weeks before travelling, you may enter Seychelles as a visitor. Visitors must stay at approved accommodation, and provide both an authentic vaccination certificate and a negative PCR test result conducted within 72 hours of travel. The local authorities review these restrictions on an ongoing basis
Dual nationals, permanent residents and approved work permit (Gainful Occupational Permit) holders may continue to travel from the United Kingdom to Seychelles without having received a vaccine, but will be required to quarantine or self-isolate on arrival, subject to direction from the Public Health Authority, for seven days in accommodation approved by the Public Health Authority. This can include home quarantine for Seychellois and residents or a private quarantine facility for Gainful Occupational Permit holders. You must have proof of a negative COVID-19 test, performed no more than 72 hours before departure and you must be able to demonstrate a negative test result on entry. You should visit the Seychelles Ministry of Health website for full entry procedures.
An application for entry form should also be completed and returned to the Public Health Authority before travel. Work permit holders must also be cleared by the Department of Employment and Immigration. If you are uncertain of your status, you should contact the Department of Employment and Immigration before attempting to enter Seychelles.
Seychellois, residents, and Gainful Occupational Permit holders, who have received a complete course of a COVID-19 vaccine (including a second dose where required), may enter Seychelles from any country and will not face quarantine.
You can find a travel advisory detailing the full entry procedures for all travellers at the Ministry for Tourism website. You are strongly advised to familiarise yourself with the full entry requirements before you travel. These may be updated regularly and without warning.
All arrivals by sea on pleasure crafts / yachts must apply for entry but may only come to shore 10 days after their last port of call and must have a negative PCR test. If you intend to enter Seychelles waters and if you wish to disembark from a vessel, you are required to contact the Seychelles Ministry of Health before attempting to do so.
Cruise ships from any country worldwide will not be permitted to berth in Seychelles until further notice.
Seychelles International Airport may allow private jets and commercial charter flights to land if they are carrying passengers who will then be transferred to authorised yachts, or to specifically authorised tourist facilities. All passengers must have proof of a negative COVID-19 test performed in the 48 hours prior to boarding. You should contact your airline and the Seychelles Department of Health to understand when and if you will be permitted entry to Seychelles.
Screening on arrival
All passengers will be temperature checked at all ports of arrival. If symptoms of COVID-19 are found to be present, tests will be conducted. Those found to be positive will be quarantined and re-checked.
Quarantine requirements
Dual nationals, permanent residents and approved work permit (Gainful Occupational Permit) holders may continue to travel from the United Kingdom to Seychelles but will be required to quarantine or self-isolate on arrival, subject to direction from the Public Health Authority, for ten days in accommodation approved by the Public Health Authority. A COVID-19 test must also be performed no more than 48 hours before departure and you must be able to demonstrate a negative test result on entry.
Seychellois, residents, and Gainful Occupational Permit holders, who have received a complete course of a COVID-19 vaccine (including a second dose where required), may enter Seychelles from any country and will not face quarantine.
Visitors are only permitted to enter Seychelles where they have received a complete course of a COVID-19 vaccination at least two weeks prior to travel. Visitors who met this requirement will not be required to quarantine on arrival.
Regular entry requirements
The Government of Seychelles is reviewing its policies on work permits (Gainful Occupational Permits) for foreign nationals. Following the economic impact of the coronavirus, it is a possibility that Gainful Occupational Permits for some foreign nationals will not be renewed. You should speak to your employer and contact the Government of Seychelles Department for Immigration and Civil Status if you hold a Gainful Occupational Permit and are concerned about your employment status in Seychelles.
Visas
Visas are not required for British passport holders.
Passport validity
Your passport should be valid for the proposed duration of your stay. No additional period of validity beyond this is required.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are accepted for entry, airside transit and exit from Seychelles.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
