Coronavirus
Cases of coronavirus (COVID-19) have been confirmed in Seychelles. The Seychellois authorities have introduced a number of measures to limit the spread of the virus.
The Government of Seychelles has announced that from 8pm GMT on 18 March entry will not be allowed for anyone arriving from the UK or Europe. Returning residents are exempt, but will be placed in mandatory quarantine in government quarantine centres for 14 days after arrival.
In addition, anyone travelling to Seychelles from China, South Korea or Iran, will be put in mandatory quarantine for 14 days on arrival.
No marine vessel will be allowed to enter Seychelles waters if any passenger on board has been to the UK, EU, China, South Korea or Iran in the last 14 days. All returning residents who have been to China, South Korea, EU, UK or Iran will be put under mandatory quarantine for 14 days upon arrival.
The countries listed for above measures may be subject to change at short notice.
Cruise ships from any country worldwide will not be permitted to berth in Seychelles until further notice and passengers from cruise ships will not be permitted to disembark. If you have made plans to travel to or from Seychelles by cruise ship, then you should contact your tour operator for further information. Contact tracing and testing by the Seychellois authorities will begin on Monday 15 March. All schools are closed for the next two weeks.
Further advice on coronavirus is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
Local Medical Services
Medical services in Seychelles are provided free of charge for Seychellois. Residents in Seychelles from overseas may be expected to pay for some treatment, including medication and prescriptions. Tourists are expected to pay for treatment. The main hospital is in Victoria on Mahe and local health centres are situated in most of the residential areas. Victoria Hospital on Mahe has an A&E department, MRI, ICU and CT facilities and is located at Mont Fleuri (telephone +248 4388000 or in an emergency 999). There are many private clinics which operate in Seychelles, mostly offering GP services. Patients with serious illnesses or requiring emergency treatment or surgery will be treated at the main hospital in Victoria.
At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist are available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Medical facilities in Seychelles are limited, especially on the more remote islands where doctors are often unavailable. The main hospital (including accident and emergency services) is in Victoria (telephone: + 248 4388000). Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation.
In cases of emergency, residents and tourists are admitted to the state-run hospital in Victoria. There are also a number of private clinics in Seychelles which offer GP services. See our list of medical practitioners and facilities in Seychelles
Bring sun protection cream and insect repellents with you; local supplies can be expensive.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 999 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
