Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

There are currently extremely limited commercial options available to return to the UK from Seychelles.
Qatar Airways have confirmed a special flight to Doha on 28 April. A limited number of seats are available via the Qatar Airways website. Onward connections to the UK are available.
What to do
If you cannot leave Seychelles at this time, you should:
Follow the advice of local authorities, including local measures to help minimise your risk of exposure to coronavirus
Find accommodation that’s suitable for your needs.
Keep in regular contact with family and friends at home, so they know you are safe and well
See more information and advice about staying where you are if you cannot return to the UK.
Future travel options
The UK government is working closely with airlines, the Seychellios authorities and other governments to make sure options are available for you to return to the UK as soon as possible.
This travel advice will be updated when departure options become available.
Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British High Commission on Twitter and Facebook.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Arrival in the UK
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Help and support
The British High Commission team is available to offer advice between 07.30 and 19.30 (local time, Seychelles) every day of the week on a dedicated extended telephone service which can be reached on +248 260 0451.
The High Commission cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone. This page will be updated when departure options become available. To get the latest information, sign up for travel advice email alerts.
Further information
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
