Crime
Most visits to Seychelles are trouble free. However, there have been instances of break-ins, robberies, burglaries and opportunist thefts against residents, expatriates and tourists. Crime is generally non-violent, but bags have been snatched, cars broken into and tourists robbed while walking at night. You should take sensible precautions to safeguard yourself and your possessions.
Parked cars, residential accommodation including guest houses and hotels, beaches, and marked and unmarked walking trails may be targeted. Do not take valuables, and walk with organised groups.
You should maintain at least the same level of security awareness as you would in the UK and make sure your living accommodation is secure. Use a hotel safe to store valuables, money and passports. Do not leave valuables in cars or anywhere on display, and avoid carrying large amounts of cash or wearing eye-catching jewellery.
Accommodation, particularly in isolated areas, should have adequate security, including external security lighting, grilles and overnight security guards.
Be vigilant and when outside hotel grounds, carry a mobile phone with roaming capability for use in an emergency. It’s worth checking roaming rates with your mobile phone service provider as they can be extremely high.
Take care in isolated areas and also in more popular places like Beau Vallon and the back streets of Victoria, especially after dark.
Call the Seychelles Police on +438 428 8000 to report any incident.
For any emergencies, please call 999.
Road travel 
Mahé is mountainous, and roads are narrow and winding, often with sheer drops and hairpin bends. Not all such roads are equipped with safety barriers. Deep, uncovered storm drains flank many roads. Take care when driving. Drink-driving is a problem, so be aware of other road users who may behave erratically. Sudden heavy downpours can reduce visibility and road surface conditions quickly. Potholes can appear in the road suddenly after heavy rains - drivers sometimes veer sharply across lanes to avoid them.
When returning hired vehicles, obtain an acknowledgement that the vehicle has not been damaged during the period of hire. Third party insurance is compulsory, and comprehensive insurance is also available locally. UK driving licences are valid for stays of up to three months.
Buses are cheap but infrequent on some routes (a timetable is available from the bus station in Victoria or on the Seychelles Public Transport Corporation website). Most public bus routes do not operate after 8pm.
Taxis are generally of a good standard. Taxi meters are increasingly common but if a taxi is not equipped with one, you should agree a fare before starting your journey.
Sea travel
Piracy within the region has decreased but some risk remains. Stay away from areas of conflict and seek advice from the United Kingdom Maritime Trade Operations and Maritime Security Centre (Horn of Africa).
For more information and advice, see our Piracy and armed robbery at sea page.
Most of the inner island resorts are accessible by ferry. You should pay attention to safety briefings when taking any boat trips and make sure life jackets are provided, especially on smaller excursion boats.
Swimming
Take care when swimming or snorkelling, even on organised excursions, and particularly with children or the elderly; drowning does occur.
Seychelles experiences 2 seasonal changes during the year. The start and end of the seasons are less predictable than in previous years, but generally the northwest monsoon season runs from December to March and the southeast trade winds make for a drier and slightly cooler season from May to September. Currents and waves are affected by this.
Beaches which are safer at certain times of the year can be dangerous for swimming at other times. In general, the west coast is affected during the northwest monsoon and the east coast is affected during the southeast winds. Beaches at the southern tip are not recommended for swimming at any time. You should exercise caution when swimming, especially with children. Currents can be strong and drownings occur. Seek local advice about the conditions before you visit the beaches in Seychelles. Heed signage on beaches and stay within your depth.
Dangerous rip currents can occur off the popular Beau Vallon beach (and some other beaches) when the sea is rough.
Beaches do not always show safety information and you shouldn’t assume they’re safe. Lifeguards are not numerous, though some are stationed on popular beaches. Ask hotel staff about conditions and safety on nearby beaches.
Hiking
It is generally safe to hike in Seychelles; however, there have been instances of visitors getting lost while on nature walks or hiking on trails. It is therefore important for you to plan well and follow appropriate safety measures when hiking. For advice and safety tips, please see guidance from the Seychelles Parks and Gardens Authority
Political situation
The Presidential election in October 2020 resulted in the first change of government in Seychelles for 43 years. The first democratic transition of power followed, with a peaceful handover from the United Seychelles Party, led by Danny Faure, to Linyon Demokratik Seselwa, led by the new President, Wavel Ramkalawan.
