Coronavirus guidance is being updated.
Read the Prime Minister’s statement for the latest information.

This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Seychelles as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Seychelles to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Seychelles
On 1 June, Seychelles eased certain restrictions in relation to coronavirus.
Restaurants and shops in Seychelles are permitted to trade, but social distancing rules remain in place.
Indoor seated public shows; conferences and meetings; bars; casinos; sports competitions (without spectators); gyms and fitness facilities; cinemas; and marine leisure crafts are also now permitted. All organisers of these events must receive permission from the Department of Health in Seychelles.
Beach activities involving family members from the same household are now permitted. However, beach parties are not permitted.
Restrictions are enforceable by law and can change at short notice. You should consult the Department of Health in Seychelles for further information and monitor local media for the latest developments.
Restrictions are enforceable by law and can change at short notice. You should consult the Department of Health in Seychelles for further information and monitor local media for the latest developments.
Health
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Seychelles.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions. If country is accepting subsistence loan, add:
If you’re in Seychelles, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Further information
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further advice on coronavirus is available from the NHS and on the TravelHealthPro website.
