The Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) advises against all but essential travel to:
the whole of Seychelles based on the current assessment of COVID-19 risks
From 4am on Saturday 9 January, visitors arriving into the UK who have been in or transited through Seychelles in the previous 10 days will not be permitted entry. British and Irish citizens, and third country nationals with residence rights in the UK arriving in the UK from Seychelles need to self-isolate along with their households on their return. Check the latest guidance for England, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales.
The FCDO is not advising those already travelling in Seychelles to leave at this time. Travellers should follow the advice of the local authorities on how best to protect themselves and others, including any measures that they bring in to control the virus. You should contact your tour operator or airline if you have any questions about your return journey.
From 1 January onwards those with residence rights includes: holders of Indefinite Leave to Remain; holders of existing leave to enter or remain (i.e those with biometric Residence permits) or an entry clearance/visa that grants such leave e.g. students, workers, etc (excluding visit visas); holders of EU Settlement Scheme (“EUSS”) leave; those who have rights of entry under the Withdrawal Agreements (including returning residents with a right of residence under the EEA Regulations and EEA frontier workers); family members of EEA nationals with rights under the Withdrawal Agreement.
Travel to Seychelles is subject to entry restrictions
The Government of Seychelles has announced that, with effect from 28 December, the United Kingdom will no longer feature on the list of countries from which visitors may travel to Seychelles.
Dual nationals, permanent residents and approved work permit holders may continue to travel from the United Kingdom to Seychelles but most will be required to quarantine or self-isolate on arrival, subject to direction from the Public Health Authority, for 10 days in accommodation approved by the Public Health Authority.
A COVID-19 test must also be performed no more than 48 hours before departure and you must be able to demonstrate a negative test result on entry.
An application for entry form should also be completed and returned to the Public Health Authority before travel. Work permit holders must also be cleared by the Department of Employment and Immigration. If you are uncertain of your status, you should contact the Department of Employment and Immigration before attempting to enter Seychelles.
The Government of Seychelles has advised that these measures will be in effect until the 31 January 2021 and will be subject to review before that date.
All arrivals by sea on pleasure crafts or yachts must apply for entry. They may only come to shore 10 days after their last port of call and must have a negative PCR test.
In addition to the above, the Government of Seychelles will also allow entry to individuals who have received a complete dose of a vaccination against Covid-19 at least two weeks before travelling. If you have received a vaccine that requires two doses, then you must have received the final dose at least two weeks before travelling. Visitors must stay at approved accommodation, and provide both an authentic vaccination certificate and a negative PCR test result conducted within 72 hours of travel. You can find a travel advisory detailing the full entry procedures for all travellers at the Ministry for Tourism website. You are strongly advised to familiarise yourself with the full entry requirements before you travel. These may be updated regularly and without warning.
See Entry requirements for more information before you plan to travel.
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
If you’re planning travel to Seychelles, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCDO’s guidance on foreign travel insurance.
There has been an increase of COVID-19 cases in Seychelles and community transmission has now been detected. The Government of Seychelles has issued new measures as a result. The measures took effect on 3 January and will remain in place until 28 January, when they will be reviewed.
If you are living in Seychelles or intend to travel to Seychelles, you are strongly advised to familiarise yourself with these measures and to follow public health guidelines. The Ministry of Health in Seychelles has issued a list of new and additional measures on the Ministry of Health website. You should avoid travelling unnecessarily within the country, including between islands. You should wear a mask and observe social distancing at all times when in public. See Coronavirus
Seychelles International Airport reopened on 1 June. There are restrictions in place for travellers from the UK. Inter-island public transport has resumed with revised timetables and guidelines for passengers. If you intend to travel between islands, you should consult the relevant ferry and airline service schedules. See Coronavirus page
Most visits to Seychelles are trouble-free.
You should exercise caution when swimming, especially with children. Currents can be strong and drownings occur. Beaches which are safer at certain times of the year can be dangerous for swimming at other times. See Swimming
There is a problem with drugs in Seychelles, in particular heroin. Crime levels have risen as a result; there has been an increase in break-ins, robberies, burglaries and opportunist thefts against residents, expatriates and tourists. There were robberies and attacks at, and around, Cote D’Or beach on the island of Praslin in late 2017. Police responded with increased foot patrols and lighting. They advise visitors to take care when walking in this area, particularly at night. You should take sensible precautions to safeguard yourself and your possessions. See Crime
Piracy remains a significant threat in the Gulf of Aden and Indian Ocean. See Sea travel
Some UK networks don’t allow roaming in Seychelles. You can buy local SIM cards in Victoria. You should check with your UK service provider to make sure that you can use a different SIM card in your phone before you travel.
Terrorist attacks in Seychelles can’t be ruled out. See Terrorism
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.
Take out comprehensive travel and medical insurance before you travel.
