Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for the Cayman Islands on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in the Cayman Islands.
Returning to the UK
Travelling from and returning to the UK
Check what you must do to travel abroad and return to England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
If you plan to pass through another country to return to the UK, check the travel advice for the country you’re transiting. If you will pass through a red list country, book your hotel quarantine package before travelling to the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you will need to remain in quarantine in the place you are staying, until you test negative (unless you require hospital treatment). You will be contacted by the Cayman Islands’ public health authority.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in the Cayman Islands
Inter-island flights between Grand Cayman, Cayman Brac and Little Cayman are operating:
vaccinated travellers are not required to provide a negative result from a PCR or antigen-detecting rapid diagnostic test (lateral flow test
unvaccinated travellers age 5 and over must provide a negative result from a PCR or antigen-detecting rapid diagnostic test (lateral flow test) taken no earlier than the day before departure when travelling to or in-between the Cayman Islands
travellers under the age of 5 are not required to undergo testing
Public spaces and services
The following restrictions are in place:
Group gatherings are limited to 1000 outdoors and 500 indoors, with some exemptions
Masks are compulsory on public transport, including taxis
Masks must be worn in indoor public places, where 6 feet distance cannot be maintained
Social distancing of at least 6 feet must be maintained in all public places, unless people are from the same household
Gyms, fitness centres and other indoor fitness areas now operate without restriction but must observe social distancing regulations ie each person in the property shall maintain a distance of six feet from every other person
Those renting any shared scuba or snorkelling equipment must register with the Department of Environmental Health
The use of a hookah, shisha or water pipe is not permitted in places of business
There are also restrictions for visiting health care facilities, residential home care facilities, and detention centres
For further information, check the Cayman Islands Government website. You can find full details about the restrictions, including exemptions, from the Cayman Islands Government.
Any breach of the regulations will be subject to a CI$10,000 fine or two years imprisonment or both.
Workplaces are generally open and employees are undertaking regular lateral flow testing. Educational facilities are open but may be impacted where there are cases of coronavirus detected. Leisure facilities and businesses such as restaurants, bars, gyms, spas, swimming pools are open, but subject to the aforementioned restrictions. Public transport is also operating.
Healthcare in the Cayman Islands
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in the Cayman Islands.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Cayman Islands
The UK Government has been supplying vaccines to the people of the UK’s Overseas Territories. The Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) is the UK authority responsible for assessing the safety, quality and efficacy of vaccines. MHRA has temporarily authorised under Regulation 174 of Human Medicines Regulations 2012, the Pfizer/BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine for supply in the UK, Crown Dependencies and Overseas Territories for use in the Cayman Islands. Further information on the vaccine programme in the Cayman Islands can be found at https://www.hsa.ky/public-health/coronavirus/.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
If you need urgent assistance, see Emergency assistance. More information is available on the Cayman Islands website.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
