This page has information on travelling to Cayman Islands. Check what you must do to return to the UK.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport from the UK, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in the Cayman Islands set and enforce entry rules.
All travellers
You will need to apply on the Travel Cayman Portal and be issued with a travel certificate to enter or travel through the Cayman Islands as a visitor. For more specific information on who can travel to the Cayman Islands consult the Cayman Islands Government website for further information before travelling.
The airports in the Cayman Islands are now open with regular scheduled services operating to various locations including the UK via the Bahamas the USA, Jamaica and Honduras.
On 18 February 2022 the Cayman Islands moved to Phase 5 of its border re-opening plan. All incoming travellers aged 5 years and over must provide a negative result from a PCR or certified antigen-detecting rapid diagnostic test (LFT), taken no earlier than the day before departure. However they are no longer required to undertake lateral flow tests on day 2, 5 and 10. All travel-related testing is at the cost of the traveller.
From 21 March 2022, the Cayman Islands will move to Phase 1 of the resumption of cruise tourism. Regulations are yet to be finalised. Updates will be posted on Cayman Islands Government website.
Cargo flights, couriers and air ambulance services continue to operate as usual.
Travel helplines are available to offer advice and assistance to those with an urgent or compassionate need to travel:
in the Cayman Islands, call +1 345 743 8463 or email travelcayman@gov.ky or you can submit your details via the website.
in the UK, please contact the Cayman Islands Office in the UK on 020 7491 7772 or info@cigouk.ky.
If you’re fully vaccinated
All incoming travellers aged 5 years and over must provide a negative result from a PCR or certified antigen-detecting rapid diagnostic test (LFT) taken no earlier than the day before departure.
If you’re fully vaccinated, you can enter the Cayman Islands without needing to quarantine if:
your vaccine status is securely verifiable (e.g. using the UK COVID Pass)
if your vaccine status is not securely verifiable, but you are travelling from a country with vaccination rates that are 60% or higher for the first dose of the vaccine and where those travellers spent at least 14 days prior to the date of travel
you are a Caymanian/Permanent Resident who has been fully vaccinated with an approved vaccine (locally or overseas)
Unvaccinated children aged 11 and younger who are travelling with fully vaccinated adults are also not required to quarantine on arrival in the Cayman Islands.
The travel eligibility date must be at least 14 days after you have obtained a complete course of an approved vaccine.
Find out if you qualify as fully vaccinated in the Cayman Islands on the Cayman Islands Government website.
Proof of vaccination status
You must present proof that you have been fully vaccinated to enter the Cayman Islands.
The Cayman Islands will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 vaccination record and proof of COVID-19 vaccination issued in the Crown Dependencies. Your final vaccine dose must have been administered at least 14 days prior to travel. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
Entry to and between Grand Cayman, Cayman Brac and Little Cayman if you’re fully vaccinated
Inter-island flights between Grand Cayman, Cayman Brac and Little Cayman are operating. Vaccinated travellers are not required to provide a negative result from a PCR or antigen-detecting rapid diagnostic test (lateral flow test) for travel between the islands.
If you’re not fully vaccinated
All incoming travellers aged 5 years and over must provide a negative result from a PCR or certified antigen-detecting rapid diagnostic test (LFT) taken no earlier than the day before departure.
Seven (7) days of quarantine on arrival are required for:
Unvaccinated travellers (age 12 years and over) along with all unvaccinated members of their household
Unaccompanied unvaccinated children who travel from a country with a vaccination rate below 60% for the first dose of the vaccine
Travellers with non-securely verifiable vaccination records who travel from a country with a vaccination rate below 60% for the first dose of the vaccine
Vaccinated household members of unvaccinated travellers are not required to quarantine but will be required to undergo daily LFT for 7 days if they wish to leave the premises.
GPS tracking is required for all travellers and their companions age 10 years and over who are approved to quarantine at a private residence.
Find out if you qualify as fully vaccinated in the Cayman Islands on the Cayman Islands Government website.
If you’ve had COVID-19 in the past year
If you’re not fully vaccinated but have tested positive for COVID-19 in the last year you can enter the Cayman Islands, but you will be required to quarantine for 7 days in line with the requirements for unvaccinated travellers. Proof of COVID-19 recovery is not accepted in place of full vaccination in the Cayman Islands.
Entry to and between Grand Cayman, Cayman Brac and Little Cayman if you’re not fully vaccinated
Inter-island flights between Grand Cayman, Cayman Brac and Little Cayman are operating. Unvaccinated travellers age 5 and over must provide a negative result from a PCR or antigen-detecting rapid diagnostic test (lateral flow test) taken no earlier than the day before departure when travelling to or in-between the Cayman Islands.
Children and young people
All incoming travellers aged 5 years and over must provide a negative result from a PCR or certified antigen-detecting rapid diagnostic test (LFT), taken no earlier than the day before departure:
children age 12 years and over are required to be vaccinated to be exempt from quarantine
unvaccinated children under the age of 12 years old will assume the vaccination status of their adult travel companions.
unaccompanied unvaccinated children who travel from a country with a vaccination rate below 60% for the first dose of the vaccine will be required to quarantine on arrival in the Cayman Islands
Entry for children to and between Grand Cayman, Cayman Brac and Little Cayman Inter-island flights between Grand Cayman, Cayman Brac and Little Cayman are operating. Travellers under the age of 5 are not required to undergo testing. Unvaccinated travellers age 5 and over must provide a negative result from a PCR or antigen-detecting rapid diagnostic test (lateral flow test) taken no earlier than the day before departure when travelling to or in-between the Cayman Islands.
If you’re transiting through the Cayman Islands
Transiting is when you pass through one country on the way to your final destination.
You will need to apply on the Travel Cayman Portal and be issued with a travel certificate to transit through the Cayman Islands. For more specific information on who can travel to the Cayman Islands consult the Cayman Islands Government website for further information before travelling.
All transit passengers aged 5 years and over must provide a negative result from a PCR or certified antigen-detecting rapid diagnostic test (LFT) taken no earlier than the day before departure.
All transit passengers staying overnight in the Cayman Islands are subject to quarantine, regardless of vaccination status.
Transit passengers are not allowed to quarantine at a private residence. All in-transit travellers will be required to pay for accommodations at the government-approved facility (Sunshine Suites).
Transit passengers must use authorised transport when travelling in-between the airport and the government-approved facility.
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
Check with your travel provider to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Passport validity
If you are visiting the Cayman Islands your passport should be valid for at least the duration of your intended stay in the Cayman Islands. Check the Cayman Islands Government website for further details.
Visas
For information on visa requirements, please consult the Cayman Islands Government website.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents are accepted for entry, airside transit and exit from the Cayman Islands.
Returning to the UK
Check what you must do to return to the UK.
