At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each overseas territory page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in overseas territories. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the local territory government.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Coronavirus
The Cayman Islands Government has introduced a number of measures to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
The Cayman Islands Government is shutting airports to international passenger flights for a temporary period of three weeks, beginning Sunday, 22 March, 2020, at 11:59 pm until Sunday, 12 April, 2020, at 11:59 pm
For all destinations except for the United Kingdom, inbound flights from Thursday, 19 March, 2020, will operate for returning residents only
Outbound flights will operate as usual through Sunday, 22 March 2020
With immediate effect, any person arriving in the Cayman Islands will be required to be isolated for 14 days
There is a ban on public meetings, gatherings and festive ceremonies of 50+ people until further notice. The ban excludes hospitals, pharmacies and supermarkets. The fine for breaching the ban on public gatherings is CI$1,000 or up to six months’ imprisonment
From Sunday 22nd March bars are required to close and restaurants can only open for delivery and take-out. Other business types including spas, gyms, hairdressers and public swimming pools will also be asked to close from Sunday for a minimum of 2 weeks.
Cruise ships are banned for 60 days effective from Monday 16th March.
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
Health risks
Cases of Chikungunya virus have been confirmed in the Cayman Islands. You should take steps to avoid being bitten by mosquitoes.
There are three well-equipped hospitals on Grand Cayman, two in the capital George Town and one in the Eastern part of the island. A smaller facility, Faith Hospital, on Cayman Brac, which can cope with most routine medical and dental problems. Treatment is expensive and more serious cases will normally be stabilised in the Territory before being transferred to Miami.
Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad. Your insurance should include air ambulance, third country (USA) medical treatment and repatriation.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 911 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
