

Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.    
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in the Cayman Islands
Although there is no recent history of terrorism in the Cayman Islands, attacks cannot be ruled out.
Crime
Protecting your belongings
Crime rates are low, but you should take sensible precautions to protect your personal safety and belongings:
use a hotel safe or a safety deposit box for valuables where possible
take particular care of your passport as you cannot renew or replace it in the Cayman Islands
keep a copy of your passport’s photo page in a separate place
report the theft or loss of your passport immediately to the police and get a written report
Laws and cultural differences
The Cayman Islands is a British Overseas Territory and has its own laws.
Sunday trading
Religion and family are of significant cultural importance across the Cayman Islands. Many shops, banks and services close on Sundays.
Illegal drugs and prison sentences
There are harsh penalties for those caught with drugs of any kind. Penalties can include imprisonment for up to 35 years, and fines of unlimited amounts.
LGBT+ travellers
Same-sex civil partnerships were legalised in 2020. Hotels and resorts are generally welcoming, regardless of sexual orientation. Local attitudes can be conservative and some people may not approve of same-sex couples showing affection in public.
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Outdoor activities and adventure tourism
Swimming safety
See information on water safety on holiday from the Royal Life Saving Society.
Transport risks
Road travel
If you are planning to drive in the Cayman Islands, see information on driving abroad and check the driving regulations and other legal requirements you need to be aware of.
You can use a UK photocard driving licence to drive in the Cayman Islands. If you still have a paper driving licence, you may need to update it to a photocard licence or get the correct version of the international driving permit (IDP) as well.
Hire car companies often have stricter requirements for their customers, such as a year of driving experience or a higher minimum age.
Drink-driving is a serious offence in the Cayman Islands. If you are tested and found to have more than 0.07% of alcohol in your system (slightly lower than the limit in England, Wales and Northern Ireland), you may get a fine and possible imprisonment for 6 months.
Minibuses are currently the only form of local public transport. They run only on the main routes. For other journeys, taxis are available, or you can hire a car.
Air travel
Airlines have early check-in times for passengers and luggage, as all luggage is subject to being hand-searched. Check your recommended check-in time with your airline.
You will get an immigration card when you arrive which you must keep for your departure.  
Extreme weather and natural disasters
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards.
See guidance for how to stay safe and how to contact local authorities on the Cayman Islands Emergency website.
The National Emergency Notification System (NENS) is a free mobile app launched by the Cayman Islands Government that delivers emergency alerts by email, SMS and app notification. Residents and visitors can download the app on their mobile devices.
Hurricanes
The hurricane season in the Cayman Islands normally runs from June to November. You should:
monitor local news
check World Meteorological Organization weather reports for the Cayman Islands
check international weather updates from the Cayman Islands National Weather Service
follow the advice of the local authorities including any evacuation orders
Earthquakes
Earthquakes are a risk in the Cayman Islands. The US Federal Emergency Management Agency website has advice about what to do before, during and after an earthquake.
The largest recent earthquake in the Cayman Islands was in 2020. It struck southeast of Cayman Brac and Little Cayman at magnitude 7.7. It caused sinkholes and aftershocks but no serious damage or injuries.
