This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in the Cayman Islands as a visitor, if you are unable to Return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in the Cayman Islands to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in the Cayman Islands
Inter-Island flights will continue; however, flights from Grand Cayman into Cayman Brac and Little Cayman will be restricted to residents and essential persons, for example, medical staff. See further information on Entry requirements
The Cayman Islands has implemented shelter-in-place regulations which restrict travel to public places (supermarkets, banks etc) between 4.30am and 10.00pm, and restricts all movement between 10.00pm and 4.30am except for essential workers.
There is a ban on public meetings and gatherings of six people or more until further notice. This ban excludes premises such as hospitals, pharmacies and supermarkets. The fine for breaching the ban on public gatherings is CI$1,000 or up to 6 months imprisonment.
Some workplaces, including retail shops and building sites are open. Other businesses including law and accounting firms remain closed but employees can work from home.
Restaurants and bars are open for outdoor dining with table service only. Tables have to be 8 feet apart and are for a maximum of 6 people. Social distancing rules apply. Spas, gyms, hairdressers and public swimming pools are also closed. Strata pools and tennis courts can be used subject to social distancing rules. The bus service has resumed but buses are limited to 50% capacity. Taxis are limited to 2 passengers only.
Educational facilities will remain closed for the rest of the academic year.
Health
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in the Cayman Islands.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
More information is available on the Cayman Islands website.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
