Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for South Sudan on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
Commercial flights are operating to and from South Sudan to some regional countries. There are no direct flights to the UK. You should check with airlines to confirm frequency and any transit requirements. You should also consult Travel Advice pages for any requirements in the destination or transit country.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out more detail and information on what you will need to do when you arrive in South Sudan.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in South Sudan
On public transport and internal flights, passengers are required to wear face masks.
Public places and services
On 14 April, the South Sudan National COVID-19 Taskforce lifted the temporary lockdown measures introduced in 3 February. The Taskforce continues to encourage the public to follow precautionary measures, including handwashing, mask wearing and maintaining social distancing (2 metres). Large social gatherings that involve more than one household, such as weddings and funerals, require prior authorisation. However, these measures are not consistently enforced or observed in public spaces and business premises.
Healthcare in South Sudan
If you think you have COVID-19 symptoms, you should self-isolate and report any suspected case to the nearest health facility.
Testing capacity in South Sudan is extremely limited and results are subject to significant delay.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in South Sudan.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in South Sudan
As information is available about the national vaccination programme, this page will be updated.
The Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) is the UK authority responsible for assessing the safety, quality and efficacy of vaccines. It has authorised the Pfizer/BioNTech, Oxford/AstraZeneca and Moderna vaccines for temporary supply and use in the UK. Find out more about MHRA approval for these vaccines.
British nationals living overseas should seek medical advice from their local healthcare provider in the country where they reside. Information about vaccines used in other national programmes, including regulatory status, should be available from the local authorities. This list of Stringent Regulatory Authorities recognised by the World Health Organisation may also be a useful source of additional information. Find out more information about the COVID-19 vaccines on the World Health Organization COVID-19 vaccines page.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance. requirements.
Further information
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British High Commission in Nairobi. You can call British High Commission Nairobi on +254 (0) 20 2873000 or +254 (0) 20 2844000. Consular support is severely limited in South Sudan. The British Embassy in Juba does not have a consular section.
