This page has information on travelling to South Sudan. Check what you must do to return to the UK.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport from the UK, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in South Sudan set and enforce entry rules.
All travellers
South Sudan has reopened its land borders but all travellers should check restrictions in place from neighbouring countries.
If you’re fully vaccinated
If you’re fully vaccinated, you must have a negative PCR test certificate showing you are free from COVID-19, issued no more than 72 hours in advance of your arrival time in South Sudan. You should also check airline and transit country requirements before travelling.
You should not use the NHS testing service to get a test in order to facilitate your travel to another country. You should arrange to take a private test.
Vaccinated travellers are exempt from quarantine on arrival, if you have documentation of full COVID-19 vaccination (at least 14 days must have passed since your second dose of the vaccine) or evidence of a positive PCR test result within the 6 months prior to travelling. A pre-departure negative PCR test certificate is still required as detailed above.
If you arrive in South Sudan with COVID-19 symptoms you will be given a rapid diagnostic test. A positive result will be taken as confirmed COVID-19. Negative results will be confirmed using a PCR test. At present, no fees are charged.
Proof of vaccination status
South Sudan will only accept the UK’s printed version of proof of COVID-19 recovery and vaccination record. They will not accept digital proof. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
If you’re not fully vaccinated
If you’re not fully vaccinated, you must have a negative PCR test certificate showing you are free from COVID-19, issued no more than 72 hours in advance of your arrival time in South Sudan. Once you arrive in South Sudan, you will also need to self-isolate for 10 days without a further test or for 7 days, with test and release.
If you’ve had COVID-19 in the past year
If you’re not fully vaccinated but have tested positive for COVID-19 in the last 6 months, you can enter South Sudan and are exempt from quarantine on arrival. You will need to show evidence of the UK’s proof of COVID-19 recovery from within the last 6 months. The South Sudanese authorities will only accept a printed version of the UK’s proof of COVID-19 recovery record. They will not accept digital versions.
You must also have a negative PCR test certificate showing you are free from COVID-19, issued no more than 72 hours before your arrival time in South Sudan and endorsed by a reputable medical provider.
Children and young people
Entry requirements for South Sudan are the same for all travellers regardless of age. Proof of a negative test as detailed above will be required to enter South Sudan.
If you’re transiting through South Sudan
Transiting is when you pass through one country on the way to your final destination.
Commercial flights are operating to and from South Sudan to some regional countries. There are no direct flights to the UK. You should check directly with airlines to confirm their flight schedules and any transit requirements. You should also consult Travel Advice pages for any requirements in your destination country or any country through which you are transiting, as requirements vary considerably.
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
Passport validity
Your passport should be valid for a minimum period of six months from the date of entry into South Sudan.
Visas
You will need a visa to enter or travel through South Sudan as a visitor. You should contact the Embassy of South Sudan in London. Visa applications are available online.
Visas are valid for 1 month. If you wish to stay in South Sudan for longer than 1 month you’ll need to apply for an extension at the Ministry of Interior in Juba (although visas and visa extensions are currently not being issued due to coronavirus (COVID-19) measures now in place). You should also consider whether you require a work permit while in South Sudan. If in doubt you should contact the Ministry of Labour in Juba. You must register with the local police station if you’re in South Sudan for longer than 4 days.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Although the World Health Organisation doesn’t specify a certificate requirement, you’re required to provide a certificate of vaccination against yellow fever when you apply for your visa.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are accepted for exit from South Sudan.
Returning to the UK
Check what you must do to return to the UK.
