At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website. Although there have been no confirmed cases of Ebola (EVD) in South Sudan, cases of Ebola have been confirmed in Democratic Republic of Congo, close to South Sudan’s border.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist are available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Public Health England has updated its guidance for humanitarian or healthcare workers travelling to countries at risk of Ebola.
Health facilities are extremely limited - throughout South Sudan. Serious medical problems require medical evacuation to Nairobi or Kampala. During the rainy season flights are often forced to remain on the ground for hours.
Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any treatment abroad, medical evacuation and repatriation.
Coronavirus
Although there have been no confirmed cases of coronavirus (COVID-19) in South Sudan, cases have been confirmed in Ethiopia, Kenya, Sudan, Democratic Republic of the Congo and Central African Republic, all on South Sudan’s border. The South Sudan authorities have introduced a number of precautionary measures in response to the coronavirus pandemic, including temperate screening on entry to South Sudan at Juba International Airport, and most key posts (Nimule, Wau and Yambio). Passengers arriving from the UK and other affected countries are being denied entry, even with valid visas, if they arrive less than 14 days after leaving the affected country. South Sudan Embassies are not currently issuing visas for South Sudan.
You should comply with any additional screening measures put in place by the authorities.
Keep up to date with information from your tour operator, transport or accommodation provider on the impact on any existing travel plans. If you need further information about entry requirements, contact the nearest South Sudan Embassy. You should also check with your airline or travel company for the latest information.
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
