Coronavirus guidance is being updated.
Read the Prime Minister’s statement for the latest information.

There are currently extremely limited commercial options available to return to the UK from South Sudan. The best available options are through Ethiopian Airlines, who have recently started to run flights from Juba to Addis Ababa once or twice a week based on demand.
Flights
Since 24 March, when the South Sudan government implemented restrictions for international flights, it has given permission for a limited number of flights to run.
We continue to work closely with airlines, the South Sudanese authorities and other embassies to make sure these options are available for you to return to the UK as soon as possible.
Ethiopian Airlines flights
Ethiopian Airlines has approval to run flights between Addis Ababa and Juba. There is no official regular schedule but flights from Juba to Addis Ababa tend to run on Mondays and Thursdays, dependant on commercial viability (number of passengers). As a result, flights can be cancelled at short notice. If this does happen, Ethiopian Airlines will contact passengers and offer them a seat on the next available flight. You should book directly with Ethiopian Airlines through their website or their country office in Juba. Make sure you have a confirmed ticket for an onward flight from Addis Ababa within 72hrs of arrival to avoid an obligatory (14 days) quarantine in Ethiopia.
You should check travel advice for guidance on transiting via Ethiopia.
If you cannot leave South Sudan
If you cannot leave South Sudan at this time, see advice on staying in South Sudan during coronavirus.
Future travel options
This travel advice will be updated when departure options become available. Sign up for email alerts and follow the British Embassy Juba on Twitter and Facebook.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK.
For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Your journey home: re-entering the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK. You:
need to provide your journey and contact details up to 48 hours before you’re due to arrive in the UK
are not allowed to leave the place you’re staying for the first 14 days you’re in the UK except in very limited situations (known as ‘self-isolating’)
See also the list of people who are exempt from the border rules.
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) also provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British High Commission in Nairobi. You can call British High Commission Nairobi on +254 (0) 20 2873000 or +254 (0) 20 2844000. Consular support is severely limited in South Sudan. The British Embassy in Juba does not have a consular section.
