!
Warning
FCDO advises against all travel to South Sudan.

Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in South Sudan  
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in South Sudan, attacks cannot be ruled out.
Attacks could be indiscriminate including in places visited by foreigners. Stay aware of your surroundings, keep up to date with local media reports and follow the advice of local authorities.  
Political and security situation
The political and security situation remains unpredictable. Political tensions are high and the security situation across the country could deteriorate rapidly and unpredictably.  
If the unstable security situation deteriorates, routes into and out of South Sudan may be blocked. Juba airport may close or be inaccessible. Flights may be cancelled at short notice. 
Regional developments may also affect international transport. For example, in 2019 and 2023, events in Sudan caused South Sudan’s airspace to close temporarily.
If you are in South Sudan
FCDO continues to advise against all travel to South Sudan. If you choose to remain in South Sudan, you do so at your own risk. You should have a personal emergency plan that does not rely on the UK government. This includes the ability to leave the country or to shelter in place, if you judge that to be the safer choice. Make sure to keep all travel documentation up to date, stock up on essential supplies, and monitor the local situation.  
If there is civil disorder, stay somewhere safe and limit your movements as much as possible. Avoid all protests, political rallies and large gatherings, and follow the instructions of local authorities and security services.
Crime
Robbery and assault
There is a high risk of serious crime such as robbery and assault in Juba and other urban areas, particularly at night and on public transport. There are drive-by robberies by individuals or groups on motorbikes.
There are regular attacks by armed groups and accidents on the Juba-Nimule road, the main supply route from Uganda into South Sudan.
Criminals in South Sudan are often armed.
Criminal kidnapping and violence against aid workers
It is extremely difficult for businesses and non-governmental organisations to work in South Sudan. Although the number of aid workers killed in targeted attacks has fallen in recent years, South Sudan remains one of the most dangerous environments in the world for aid workers. There are incidents of criminal kidnapping, violence, intimidation and arbitrary detention.
Road checkpoints
Checkpoints operated by soldiers or other armed men are common in and around Juba, particularly after dark. Armed men at checkpoints have been known to demand money from drivers and abuse people, especially women. Roadblocks can create volatile and dangerous situations and are often put up after sunset, so it advisable not to travel after dark.
Armed conflict
Armed conflict, including violence targeting civilians is common throughout South Sudan. Fighting often starts quickly and unpredictably. Follow instructions from local authorities.
On 4 March 2025, there were reports of intense fighting in Nasir, Upper Nile State.
On the 16 and 17 January 2025, there was sporadic gunfire and looting across major towns, including in areas of Juba city.
To keep yourself informed of the latest developments, follow and contact FCDO travel on X, Facebook, and Instagram. You can also get email notifications when this travel advice is updated.
Landmines and unexploded weapons    
There is a risk from landmines or unexploded cluster bombs in some areas of South Sudan. 
Affected states include:
Central Equatoria
Eastern Equatoria
Jonglei
Central and Eastern Equatoria
Lakes
Upper Nile
Warrap
Western Equatoria
Most areas with unexploded weapons have been marked and signposted, but there may still be small, previously unidentified hazardous areas in remote places.
Be cautious near areas with unexploded weapons or where there was previously heavy fighting. Do not enter marked areas with landmines or other explosives. Do not touch any suspicious objects (even to move them to a safer place).      
Limited UK government support
Consular support is severely limited in South Sudan. The British Embassy in Juba does not have a consular section. If you are in South Sudan and need urgent help from the UK government, contact the British High Commission in Nairobi, Kenya.
If you decide to travel to South Sudan, make sure you carefully consider the threats and have reasonable, proportionate mitigation measures in place. Most international organisations in South Sudan employ a security manager to help keep employees safe.
Laws and cultural differences
Personal ID
Police can ask to see photo ID. Always carry a colour copy of your passport with you.
Illegal drugs penalties
There are severe penalties for using or trafficking drugs in South Sudan, including the death penalty and life imprisonment.
Using cameras
Do not take photographs close to government buildings, military installations, bridges, airports, public utilities (including petrol stations) and other sensitive areas. Plainclothes public security officers operate in Juba and across South Sudan.
LGBT+ travellers
Same-sex relationships are not culturally accepted. Same-sex sexual activity between men is illegal and punishable by a prison sentence of up to 14 years. LGBT+ travellers are at risk of discrimination and violence.
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Money
International credit and debit cards are not widely accepted, although some of the newer hotels and supermarkets are starting to.
ATMs are hard to find, and it is often not possible to use international cards. You can use your credit or debit card to withdraw money in some supermarkets. Bring large denomination US dollars (clean, unblemished notes dated 2017 onwards). Dollars are acceptable currency in many places, but shops and restaurants are likely to refuse notes that are marked in any way.
Transport risks
Road travel
It is extremely dangerous to drive in South Sudan due to armed robbery, violent attacks and poor driving standards.
Driving standards are well below those in the UK and other European countries. Very few roads are surfaced and maintained, particularly outside Juba. Residential areas usually have dirt roads. Road traffic accidents are common, particularly on the Juba-Nimule road.
At night there is almost no street lighting, and many vehicles have no lights. Motor vehicles share the road with pedestrians, donkey carts and rickshaw-style cabs.
Although drivers should have a licence and insurance, many do not. Make sure you have adequate insurance. Your insurance could be invalidated if you travel against FCDO advice.
You can use a UK photocard driving licence to drive in South Sudan. If you still have a paper driving licence, you may need to update it to a photocard licence or get the correct version of the international driving permit (IDP).        
See information on driving abroad. 
Public transport
Public transport, including small buses, vans and motorbike taxis (‘boda-bodas’), is extremely unsafe. Drivers are reckless, traffic accidents are common and vehicles are in poor condition. There is also a high risk of mugging. Avoid public transport.
Extreme weather and natural disasters
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards. 
Flooding
During the rainy season from April to November, most roads outside of Juba become impassable. There is a risk of being cut off by floods in areas outside the capital, particularly in Unity, Warrap, Jonglei and Upper Nile states. There is also a risk of flash flooding.
