The Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) advise against all travel to South Sudan.
If you choose to travel to South Sudan against FCDO advice, exercise caution and vigilance at all times and avoid any travel during the hours of darkness. You should make sure you have comprehensive contingency plans that don’t rely on support from the Embassy, including a stock of essential supplies and up-to-date travel documents and visas. If you’re concerned about your safety, you should contact the FCDO on +44 207 008 5000.
Travel to South Sudan is subject to entry restrictions
To enter South Sudan, you must have a certificate showing you are free from coronavirus, issued no more than 48 hours ahead of your journey, and endorsed by a reputable medical provider.
You will also need prior permission to enter the country from the National Taskforce.
See Entry requirements for more information before you plan to travel.
Return travel to the UK is subject to self-isolation requirements
If you’re returning to the UK, you will need to:
provide your journey and contact details
self-isolate for 14 days
Check the guidance on entering or returning to the UK.
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
If you’re planning travel to South Sudan, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCDO’s guidance on foreign travel insurance.
There is an official government curfew across South Sudan from 10pm to 6am in an effort to prevent the spread of coronavirus.
Given the rapidly changing situation in South Sudan we have temporarily withdrawn a number of UK staff from our Embassy. The Embassy will continue to carry out essential work. Consular support is severely limited in South Sudan. The British Embassy in Juba does not have a consular section. If you are in South Sudan and need urgent help from the UK Government, contact the British High Commission in Nairobi.
There are regular reports of intercommunal violence in some areas of the country, as well as sporadic reports of fighting between armed groups. Serious criminality in Juba, particularly during the hours of darkness, is also a regular concern.
You should be vigilant of the local security situation, monitor the local media, and stay in a safe location. Most international organisations in South Sudan employ a security manager to monitor the situation and keep employees safe.
A ceasefire is currently in place, and has largely held since September 2018. But a deterioration in the security situation remains possible, and could be prompted by a number of factors including developments in the fragile economy, the ongoing peace process, or a more securitised response to coronavirus (COVID-19).
In the event of a serious deterioration in the security situation, similar to those of July 2016 and December 2013, routes into and out of South Sudan may be blocked, Juba airport may be closed or inaccessible, and flights may be suspended at short notice. Regional developments may also increase the unpredictability of infrastructure and transport, as happened in April 2019 when events in Sudan led to the temporary closure of South Sudan’s airspace.
The main road connecting Juba to Uganda is extremely dangerous, with regular reports of accidents and attacks on vehicles by armed groups. See Safety and Security. The border is in effect closed due to restrictions in place in the region in response to COVID-19.
Terrorist attacks in South Sudan can’t be ruled out. See Terrorism
