!
Warning
FCDO advises against all travel to South Sudan.

Your travel insurance could be invalidated if you travel against advice from the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO). 
FCDO advises against all travel to South Sudan
FCDO advises against all travel to South Sudan due to the risk of armed violence and criminality. If you are in South Sudan and judge it safe to do so, you should leave now.
See more about safety and security in South Sudan.
Political and security situation
The political and security situation remains unpredictable. Political tensions are high and the security situation across the country could deteriorate rapidly and unpredictably.  
If the unstable security situation deteriorates, routes into and out of South Sudan may be blocked. Juba airport may close or be inaccessible. Flights may be cancelled at short notice. 
Regional developments may also affect international transport. For example, in 2019 and 2023, events in Sudan caused South Sudan’s airspace to close temporarily.
Consular assistance to British nationals is severely limited in South Sudan. In person consular assistance is not available.
If you are in South Sudan
If you are in South Sudan and judge it safe to do so, you should leave now.
FCDO continues to advise against all travel to South Sudan. If you choose to remain in South Sudan, you do so at your own risk. You should have a personal emergency plan that does not rely on the UK government. This includes the ability to leave the country or to shelter in place, if you judge that to be the safer choice. Make sure to keep all travel documentation up to date, stock up on essential supplies, and monitor the local situation.  
You should not assume that FCDO will be able to provide assistance to leave the country in the event of serious unrest or crisis.
If there is civil disorder, stay somewhere safe and limit your movements as much as possible. Avoid all protests, political rallies and large gatherings, and follow the instructions of local authorities and security services.
Travel insurance
If you choose to travel, research your destinations and get appropriate travel insurance. Insurance should cover your itinerary, planned activities and expenses in an emergency.
About FCDO travel advice
FCDO provides advice about risks of travel to help you make informed decisions. Find out more about FCDO travel advice.
Get travel advice updates
Sign up to get email notifications when this travel advice is updated.
Follow FCDO:   
travel advice on X
travel advice on Facebook
Travel Aware on Instagram
