Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Zambia on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
There are no direct flights between Zambia and the UK. Check FCDO travel advice for the latest guidance on transiting through third countries.
From 4am on Saturday 9 January, visitors arriving into the UK who have been in or transited through Zambia in the previous 10 days will not be permitted entry. British and Irish nationals, and third country nationals with residence rights in the UK arriving in the UK from Zambia will be required to quarantine in a hotel. Check the latest guidance for England, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales.
From 1 January onwards those with residence rights includes: holders of Indefinite Leave to Remain; holders of existing leave to enter or remain (i.e. those with biometric Residence permits) or an entry clearance/visa that grants such leave e.g. students, workers, etc. (excluding visit visas); holders of EU Settlement Scheme (“EUSS”) leave; those who have rights of entry under the Withdrawal Agreements (including returning residents with a right of residence under the EEA Regulations and EEA frontier workers); family members of EEA nationals with rights under the Withdrawal Agreement.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Zambia.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government requirements.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Zambia
Face masks are compulsory and must be worn in public spaces.
Regional airports are open, though airlines may be operating limited services.
Accommodation
There are no restrictions on hotels and safari lodges. You should contact your accommodation provider for further information before travelling.
Public places and services
The Zambian government have put restrictive measures in place, which were last updated on 16 July:
The wearing of a mask is mandatory in all public places
All Pre, Primary and Secondary schools to remain closed and re-open on 16 August
All colleges, universities and other institutions of higher learning continue with online classes only
Places of worship are restricted to conducting a maximum of two services/meetings per week, allowing a maximum of one hour per service
Casinos and night clubs to remain closed
Bars and taverns continue to operate only on a take-away basis
Restaurants and other food outlets will continue to operate a take-away service only
A maximum of 50 people allowed to attend a funeral
Social gatherings such as weddings, kitchen parties, Chilangamulilo, Matebeto, will only be allowed for a maximum of 50 people subject to certification by authorised officers, and may be supervised
All conferences, workshops and general meetings are suspended until further notice
All public transport users must wear a mask and adhere to physical distancing regulations, either when traveling or at public stations
All markets must ensure adherence to public health guidance
Healthcare in Zambia
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Zambia.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Zambia
Wherever possible British nationals should aim to be vaccinated in the country where they live. As further information is available about the national vaccination programme, this page will be updated. Sign up to get email notifications.
The Zambian national vaccination programme started in April 2021 and is using the AstraZeneca vaccine. British nationals resident in Zambia are eligible for vaccination.
After being paused in order to focus on second dose administration, the Zambia national vaccination programme resumed first dose vaccines on 9th July.
A list of vaccination sites is available on the Zambian Ministry of Health website.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad page.
If you’re a British national living in Zambia, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
