This page has information on travelling to Zambia. Check what you must do to return to the UK.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport from the UK, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Zambia set and enforce entry rules.
All travellers
Travellers to Zambia are encouraged to be fully vaccinated but this is not mandatory.
Regardless of vaccination status, you are required to complete a health declaration form, undergo thermo-scanning and provide evidence of a negative SARS-CoV-2 PCR test certificate. Zambian Government guidelines are that these tests should be taken within 72 hours of departure from country of origin. Some airlines are asking passengers for evidence of a negative PCR test taken within 72 hours prior to arrival in Zambia. You should check your airline’s guidelines on testing carefully when arranging your tests.
You should not use the NHS testing service to get a test in order to facilitate your travel to another country. You should arrange to take a private test. See information on getting a test before entry.
Travellers should upload their negative PCR test certificate to https://globalhaven.org/ before boarding their flight.
Anyone entering Zambia with a body temperature equal to, or above 38.0 C will be tested for COVID-19 on arrival and be required to quarantine (at your home, a hotel or government facility) until your test results are known.
All travellers entering Zambia are required to adhere to the prescribed COVID-19 public health measures, summed up in the “Five Golden Rules” as follows:
i) Masking us consistently and correctly in public premises; ii) Frequently washing hands with soap and water or use of alcohol based hand sanitiser; iii) Keeping physical distancing of not less than 1 metre; iv) Avoiding crowded places; v) Seeking medical attention early if feeling unwell.
You will need a tourist or business visa to enter or travel through Zambia as a visitor as well as valid return air tickets (if arriving by air) and sufficient funds for your stay.
See Visas for more information.
If you’re fully vaccinated
Entry requirements for Zambia are the same for all travellers, regardless of COVID-19 vaccination status. See All travellers.
Proof of vaccination status
You don’t need to provide your vaccination status for entry to Zambia. Requirements are the same for entry to Zambia regardless of vaccination status.
If you’re not fully vaccinated
Entry requirements for Zambia are the same for all travellers, regardless of COVID-19 vaccination status. See All travellers.
If you’ve had COVID-19 in the past year
Entry requirements for Zambia are the same for all travellers, regardless of whether you have tested positive for COVID-19 in the past year.
Children and young people
Children aged 4 and under are exempt from the requirement to provide a PCR COVID-19 test.
If you’re transiting through Zambia
Transiting is when you pass through one country on the way to your final destination.
Travellers departing Zambia are expected to present evidence of a negative SARS-CoV-2 PCR test certificate from a certified Ministry of Health COVID-19 testing laboratory. Travellers should upload their negative PCR test certificate to https://globalhaven.org/. Holders of tests taken outside Zambia are not exempt from this requirement, even if their test was taken within the previous 72 hours.
Exemptions
There are no exemptions to Zambia’s entry requirements.
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
Passport validity
If you are visiting Zambia, your passport should be valid for a minimum of 6 months from the date you arrive and have at least 2 blank pages.
Check with your travel provider to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Zambia recognizes dual nationality. However to avoid delays you should leave Zambia on the same passport you used to enter.
Visas
You will need a tourist or business visa to enter or travel through Zambia as a visitor as well as valid return air tickets (if arriving by air) and sufficient funds for your stay. Tourist and business visit visas are available in advance (from Zambian Missions abroad or e-Visa) and on arrival in Zambia. Single and double entry visas are available on arrival at all ports of entry but multi-entry visas are not. If you plan to get a visa on arrival, you will need the correct amount of cash (US dollars) as change may not be available. If you enter through Kenneth Kuanda International Airport, you can generally make payment by credit or debit card at the Zambian Immigration desks.
You should check your visa endorsement for the period of your stay in Zambia. Although you are allowed 90 days per calendar year, the immigration officer will not normally endorse the full length of time upon entry and you will be required to extend the stay at the nearest immigration office.
For further information about entry requirements contact the Zambian High Commission in London at info@zambiahc.org.uk or visit Zambia Department of Immigration.
KAZA UNVISA
The KAZA UNVISA is valid for travel between Zambia and Zimbabwe and day-trips to Botswana through the Kaungula border. It’s available at the international airports in Lusaka and Livingstone and at the land borders at Livingstone (Zimbabwe border) and Kazungula (Botswana border). You can also apply online. It costs US$50 and it is valid for 30 days.
Travelling with children via a South African airport
If you’re transiting through a South African airport with children (under 18), see Travel Advice for South Africa for information and advice about the documents you’ll need to carry.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are accepted for entry, airside transit, and exit from Zambia. ETDs must be valid for 6 months for entry into Zambia if the holder is not a returning resident.
Returning to the UK
Official government instructions are that travellers leaving Zambia are required to use a certified Ministry of Health COVID-19 testing laboratory and present a Ministry of Health approved negative COVID-19 PCR travel certificate. There are reports from travellers that you are not always asked to present a travel certificate. However, you must be able to produce one if asked.
All passengers arriving in, departing from or transiting Zambia should also validate their COVID-19 RT PCR test via the African Union Trusted Travel or UNDP Global Haven systems (you will need to register an account on one of these sites). These systems will generate a digital Trusted Travel reference code for your test, which should be presented upon request.
On leaving Zambia, all air passengers must pay a departure tax of US$25. This is normally included in the cost of an air ticket, you will be asked to pay separately in Zambian Kwacha if it is not.
There is also a Security Charge payable by all departing air passengers. The cost is US$3 per person for domestic flights and US$5 per person for international flights. As above, this is normally included in the cost of an air ticket but you will be asked to pay separately in Zambian Kwacha if it is not.
Check what you must do to return to the UK.
