

Before you travel check that:
your destination can provide the healthcare you may need
you have appropriate travel insurance for local treatment or unexpected medical evacuation
This is particularly important if you have a health condition or are pregnant.
Vaccine recommendations and health risks
At least 8 weeks before your trip:
check the latest vaccine recommendations for Zambia
where to get vaccines and whether you have to pay on the NHS travel vaccinations page
See what health risks you’ll face in Zambia including:
yellow fever
malaria
dengue fever
cholera
mpox
The UNAIDS Zambia country progress report of 2020 estimated the overall HIV prevalence in the adult population is 11%, compared to a prevalence of 0.2% in adults in the UK. Take normal precautions to avoid exposure to HIV/AIDS.
Potential health risks from heavy metals in water 
Chemical waste containing heavy metals was released from a mine in Copperbelt Province into the Chambishi Stream and the Mwambashi and Kafue Rivers in February 2025. Exposure to heavy metal contaminants may affect health. As a precaution: 
avoid bathing in rivers and streams near the Chambishi stream, and where the Mwambashi and Kafue rivers meet 
avoid consuming untreated locally sourced water or fish from this area. Boiling water does not remove heavy metal contaminants 
seek medical attention if you feel unwell
Medication
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or bought in the UK can be different in other countries.  
Read best practice when travelling with medicines on TravelHealthPro.
Healthcare in Zambia
FCDO has a list of medical providers in Zambia.
Medical facilities throughout Zambia are of a lower standard than in the UK. Facilities in rural areas are basic and emergency services are limited. Carry basic medical supplies. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation.
Travel and mental health
Read FCDO guidance on travel and mental health. There is also mental health guidance on TravelHealthPro.
