Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

There remain commercial options to return to the UK from Zambia.
If you live in the UK and are currently visiting Zambia, you’re strongly advised to return now by commercial means. Don’t run the risk of getting stranded.
UK special charter flights will only operate for priority countries where commercial flights are not possible. You should not assume that these flights will become available in countries where commercial routes are operating. Please do not contact the contracted travel management company if no flight is advertised here.
Flights
Currently the only international flight option from Zambia is via Ethiopian Airways to Addis Ababa, Ethiopia where onward connections to the UK are available. There are four flights per week between Lusaka and Addis Ababa. The flight schedule is subject to change, and flights may be cancelled if there are insufficient passengers. You should check the latest Ethiopia travel advice for the latest guidance on transiting through Ethiopia.
If you’re trying to get back to the UK and need financial help, see the FCO’s guide on financial assistance.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Arrival in the UK
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British High Commission on +260 211 423 200
The High Commission cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone.
Further information
Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British High Commission on Twitter and Facebook.
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
