This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Zambia as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Zambia to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Zambia
For information on entering Zambia, see Entry requirements.
From 24 April face masks are compulsory and must be worn in public spaces.
All schools are closed. Gatherings of 50 people of more are restricted. Following the President’s announcement on 8 May, restaurants, gyms and casinos are allowed to re-open, but bars and taverns remain closed.
The Zambian authorities have asked people to avoid all non-essential travel.
Health
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Zambia.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Zambia, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need further information about entry requirements, contact the local immigration authorities or the nearest Zambian Embassy or High Commission. You should also check with your airline or travel company for the latest information.
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
