The FCDO advises against all but essential travel to:
the whole of Zambia based on the current assessment of COVID-19 risks.
From 9 January, visitors arriving into England who have been in or transited through Zambia in the previous 10 days will not be permitted entry. British and Irish nationals, and third country nationals with residence rights in the UK arriving in England from Zambia will be required to quarantine in a hotel. Different requirements apply for arrivals into Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland.
The FCDO is not advising those already travelling in Zambia to leave at this time. Travellers should follow the advice of the local authorities on how best to protect themselves and others, including any measures that they bring in to control the virus. You should contact your tour operator or airline if you have any questions about your return journey.
Travel to Zambia is subject to entry restrictions
All visitors and returning residents must have proof that they have tested negative for COVID-19 in the 72 hours before their arrival in Zambia. There is no requirement for visitors or residents to self-isolate on arrival.
Temperature checking is routine on arrival. If your body temperature is 38 degrees Celsius or higher, or if you have COVID-19 symptoms, you will be tested for COVID-19 and will be quarantined at home or in a designated government facility until your test result is known.
All travellers wishing to leave Zambia to travel to a country that requires a negative COVID-19 test are required to produce a medical certificate stating that they have tested negative for COVID-19 in the previous 14 days. This requirement does not apply to travellers to a destination that does not require a negative test but travellers are advised to check with their airline on their requirements prior to travel.
See Entry requirements for more information before you plan to travel.
Preparing for your return journey to the UK
If you’re returning to the UK from overseas, you will need to:
provide your journey and contact details before you travel
check if you need to self-isolate on your return
If your return journey to the UK transits another country, you should check whether it is subject to a travel ban or any other additional requirements. If so, contact your travel provider.
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
If you’re planning travel to Zambia, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCDO’s guidance on foreign travel insurance.
For information about COVID-19 vaccines, see the Coronavirus page.
Most visits to Zambia are trouble-free, but you should take sensible precautions to protect yourself from crime.
You will need a visa to enter Zambia as a visitor. See Visas
Terrorist attacks in Zambia can’t be ruled out. See Terrorism
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.
