Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Denmark on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Denmark.
You must wear a face mask at the airport on arrival and before departure. Children under 6 years of age are exempt from this requirement. A factory-made CE-marked disposable face mask is recommended.
Returning to the UK
Travelling from and returning to the UK
Check what you must do to travel abroad and return to England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
If you plan to pass through another country to return to the UK, check the travel advice for the country you’re transiting. If you will pass through a red list country, book your hotel quarantine package before travelling to the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements. You can find a local test centre in Denmark. You do not need an appointment for a rapid antigen test. For PCR tests, you can make an appointment but some centres are now drop in. You must create an account at Covidresults.dk before being tested and you will receive a certificate with the test result.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19 in Denmark, you should immediately self-isolate. The Danish authorities will contact you within 24 hours and help you trace your close contacts. You can also call the Danish authorities (Coronaopsporing) yourself on +45 32 32 05 11. See the Coronasmitte website for more details.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Corona passport
You need a valid corona passport when entering:
indoor restaurants, cafés, bars etc. These will close at 2300 and there is a ban on the sale of alcohol from 22:00 to 05.00.
local services such as tattoo parlours, hairdressers, solariums and massage parlours.
all visitors to sheltered housing, nursing homes and hospitals.
A valid corona passport documents that you have either been vaccinated or previously infected within the last 6 months or that you can document a negative COVID-19 test taken within the last 72 hours (PCR) or 48 hours (rapid antigen).
Face masks
You must wear a face mask:
on public transport, including travel by bus, train, light rail, metro, ferry and taxi. The requirement also applies to tour buses and domestic flights, as well as at train stations, metro stations, light rail stops and stations, ferry terminals and airports
in retail stores, including grocery stores, shopping centres, department stores, arcades, and indoor markets, including takeaway locations in these places
in public buildings (e.g. educational institutions, libraries), churches, hotels, and other cultural and commercial venues where there is public access
in public and private hospitals and clinics
in restaurants, cafes, bars and takeaway places when standing
Travel in Denmark
The Danish Government regularly monitors the risks of COVID-19, and adjusts measures in line with the levels of infection to contain the spread of Coronavirus.
Seat reservations are required on all long distance trains and buses.
Full details can be found on the Coronavirus in Denmark website.
Public spaces and services
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Denmark to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Nightclubs, discos, theatres, cinemas, casinos, amusement parks, zoos, entertainment venues, museums and art galleries are closed.
Full details can be found on the Coronavirus in Denmark website.
Denmark will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 recovery and vaccination record. If you are travelling with a printed PDF proof of vaccination status, it must date from 1 November to ensure that the certificate can be scanned successfully, if domestic certification is required. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
Healthcare in Denmark
The Danish Health Authority (Sundhedsstyrelsen) has opened a Coronavirus hotline on +45 70 20 02 33, operators speak English and Danish. There is also a Coronavirus website with all the latest information in English.
For contact details of English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Denmark
COVID-19 Vaccines if you live in Denmark
We will update this page when the Danish government announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Danish national vaccination programme started in December 2020 and uses the Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna vaccines. AstraZeneca and Janssen (Johnson and Johnson) may also be available. British nationals resident in Denmark are eligible for the vaccine. The Danish authorities have issued guidance (in English) on how to get a vaccine in Denmark. Vaccination is voluntary and free of charge.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in Denmark, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
If you receive your COVID-19 vaccination in Denmark, you can get an EU Digital COVID Certificate from the national authorities. The Certificate proves that you have been vaccinated against COVID-19, received a negative test result, or recovered from COVID-19. It will help facilitate your travel within the EU and, in some countries, you can use it to demonstrate your COVID-19 status to businesses and other organisations. For further information visit the European Commission’s EU Digital COVID Certificate page.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
