This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport, for the most common types of travel.
The Danish government sets and enforces its entry rules. For further information check the Danish coronavirus website. Check with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and travel documents meet entry requirements.
If you are travelling to Denmark for work, read the guidance on visas and permits as the rules have changed since 1 January 2021.
Entry rules in response to coronavirus (COVID-19)
If you are planning a trip to Denmark check the latest travel rules before you travel. You should check with your airline for any additional testing requirements.
For arrivals to Denmark from the UK:
There are specific rules for testing for all travellers dependent on whether or not you are resident in Denmark.
Testing before entry:
Non-residents
If you are not resident in Denmark, you must take a test before you travel to Denmark. The test must be a maximum of 48 hours with a rapid antigen test or 72 hours with a PCR-test at the time of entry. You must take a test even if you are vaccinated – but not if you are previously infected.
Residents
If you are resident in Denmark you must take a test either before entering or within 24 hours of entry. If you are previously infected (positive test more than two weeks and less than 180 days ago) you do not have to take a test.
If you take the test before entry it can be a maximum of 48 hours with a rapid antigen test or within 72 hours with a PCR-test at the time of entry.
There are some exemptions to taking a test before entering Denmark for example:
Children under 15 years of age
Persons residing in border regions entering Sweden from transit from Bornholm without residence in Sweden
Persons entering for the purpose of freight transport
Persons in transit through Denmark departing within 24 hours of entry (e.g. Swedish air travellers who use Denmark as a hub)
Check the Danish travel rules to keep up to date.
Requirements for self-isolation:
If you have recovered from COVID-19
If you have previously recovered from COVID-19 you can enter Denmark without self-isolating. You will need:
evidence of a positive PCR-test taken more than 14 days but less than 6 months ago
If you are fully vaccinated
If you are travelling from the UK to Denmark and have been fully vaccinated you can enter Denmark without needing to self-isolate. You will need:
proof of being fully vaccinated at least 14 days prior to arrival. See ‘Demonstrating your COVID-19 status’
If you are not fully vaccinated or previously infected
If you are travelling to Denmark from the UK and have not been fully vaccinated or recovered from COVID-19 you will need to:
take a COVID-19 test within 24 hours of arrival in Denmark
self-isolate for 10 days after arriving in Denmark. You can end self-isolation with a negative PCR-test taken at least 4 days after arrival
Requirements for children travelling to Denmark
Children under the age of 15 are exempt from the testing and self-isolation requirement.
Children aged 15-17 are exempted from the testing and self-isolation requirement if they are travelling with a parent who:
has been fully vaccinated, or was
previously infected
Demonstrating your COVID-19 status
Denmark will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 recovery and vaccination record and proof of COVID-19 vaccination issued in the Crown Dependencies. Your final vaccine dose must have been administered at least 14 days prior to travel. If you are travelling with a printed PDF proof of vaccination status, it must date from 1 November to ensure that the certificate can be scanned successfully. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
Further help
UK Nationals resident in Denmark should travel with relevant documents - a valid passport, health insurance card, residence permit, residence card, EU registration certificate or personal identification document with proof of address.
You can check with the Danish authorities on their helpline (+45 7020 6044) for advice on the conditions of entry for foreign nationals.
For details of exemptions for eligible travellers, see the Danish authorities’ coronavirus website.
You can also keep up to date at the Danish coronavirus website.
Face masks at Danish airports
You must bring and wear a face mask on flights from Denmark.
You must wear a medical mask throughout terminals in Danish airports, when you enter the terminals, on board the plane, and until you exit your destination airport. The Danish health authorities recommend you change your mask every 3 to 4 hours. Children 6 and under are exempt.
Travel to the Faroe Islands
When you travel to the Faroe Islands, you are entering the Kingdom of Denmark. This means that Danish COVID-19 entry requirements also apply to the Faroe Islands. However travellers are not required to get tested before travelling to the Faroe Islands, because of the mandatory testing upon arrival to the Faroe Islands.
Mandatory testing upon arrival to the Faroe Islands
All travellers 12 years and older are required to get tested for COVID-19 upon arrival in the Faroe Islands. Younger travellers can voluntarily get tested.
Testing two days after arrival and self-isolation
All travellers are advised to take a COVID test two days after arrival, and are strongly recommended to self-isolate in private accommodation until receiving a negative test result.
Positive test or close contact
If you have tested positive for COVID-19, you are required to isolate for 7 days, counting from the date your symptoms appeared and/or the date you received your positive test result. The last 48 hours must be without symptoms. This means that if you have been symptom-free on days 6 and 7 of your isolation, you will be released from your isolation on day 8. You will be contacted by the Chief Medical Officer.
Everyone who has been in contact with an infected person should self-isolate for 7 days, regardless of vaccine received or previous infection status.
In addition to immediate testing after exposure, follow-up tests on days 4 and 6 after exposure are also recommended.
Details of test centres and opening hours are available online.
You should check the latest guidance on entry requirements for travel to the Faroe Islands before departure.
Travel to Greenland
You can only enter Greenland, if you are fully vaccinated or have previously been infected with COVID-19. Residents and children 11 years and younger are exempt from the vaccination requirement, however, unvaccinated or partially-vaccinated children 2 - 11 years of age must show a negative test result from a PCR test taken maximum 48 hours prior to travel, in one of the Nordic countries, the EU, EFTA or the United Kingdom.
Travellers that have previously been infected with COVID-19 are exempt from the pre-test rule. Persons that have previously been infected with COVID-19 must be able to show proof of a positive PCR test result that is at least 14 days old, but no more than 12 weeks old, at the time of travel.
If you are fully vaccinated or have been previously infected with COVID-19, you do not need to quarantine on arrival.
Partially vaccinated and non-vaccinated persons 2 - 11 years of age must go into 14 days quarantine, or stay in quarantine until a negative PCR re-test result, which can be first conducted on day 5 after arrival.
Be aware that restrictions on entry to Greenland may be reinstated at any time depending on the national and global spread of COVID-19. There may also be limited flight capacity.
You can keep up to date at Visit Greenland’s travel advice.
For further information regarding travel from Denmark to Greenland, you can contact Greenland’s Corona Secretariat at corona@nanoq.gl.
Regular entry requirements
The Danish authorities have border controls at the land border with Germany. There are also border controls for travellers from Rønne, Helsingør, Frederikshavn, Grenaa and those using the Øresund Bridge, including all train traffic from Sweden.
If you’re arriving in Denmark using the land border, or by rail, road, or ferry you should carry your passport with you. Allow additional time for crossing the border, and follow the instructions of local authorities.
Check with local media, your carrier, ferry operator or Danish State Railways (DSB) for more information.
If you’re travelling from Denmark to Sweden various forms of ID are accepted. These must include a photograph, the holder’s full name, social security number or date of birth, holders signature, a stated validity and information on the issuing authority. Children under 18 accompanied by an adult with the appropriate ID are not required to carry ID themselves.
Visas for Denmark
The rules for travelling or working in European countries changed on 1 January 2021:
you can travel to countries in the Schengen area for up to 90 days in any 180-day period without a visa. This applies if you travel as a tourist, to visit family or friends, to attend business meetings, cultural or sports events, or for short-term studies or training
if you are travelling to Denmark and other Schengen countries without a visa, make sure your whole visit is within the 90-day limit. Visits to Schengen countries within the previous 180 days before you travel count towards your 90 days
to stay longer, to work or study, for business travel or for other reasons, you will need to meet the Danish government’s entry requirements. Check with the Danish Embassy what type of visa, if any, you will need
if you stay in Denmark with a residence permit or long-stay visa, this does not count towards your 90-day visa-free limit
Any time you spent in Denmark or other Schengen countries before 1 January 2021 does not count towards your 90-day visa-free limit.
At Danish border control, you may need to queue in separate lanes from EU, EEA and Swiss citizens.
Check your passport is stamped if you enter or exit the Schengen area through Denmark as a visitor. Border guards will use passport stamps to check you’re complying with the 90-day visa-free limit for short stays in the Schengen area. If relevant entry or exit stamps are not in your passport, border guards will presume that you have overstayed your visa-free limit.
You can show evidence of when and where you entered or exited the Schengen area, and ask the border guards to add this date and location in your passport. Examples of acceptable evidence include boarding passes and tickets.
You may also need to:
show a return or onward ticket
show you have enough money for your stay
If you are resident in the Denmark your passport should not be stamped. You should proactively show your proof of residence as well as your valid passport at Danish border control. For further information see our Living in Denmark guide.
Visas for Greenland and Faroe Islands
Greenland and the Faroe Islands are not members of the European Union. You don’t need a visa to enter for tourism, but you should get a work and residence permit before entry if you intend to live and work there.
Passport validity
If you are planning to travel to an EU country (except Ireland), or Switzerland, Norway, Iceland, Liechtenstein, Andorra, Monaco, San Marino or Vatican City, you must meet the Schengen area rules.
Your passport must meet 2 requirements. It must be:
less than 10 years old on the day you enter (check the ‘date of issue’)
valid for at least 3 months after the day you plan to leave (check the ‘expiry date’)
We are asking the European Commission to clarify the 10-year rule. Their guidance for Schengen border guards may not be updated until the spring of 2022. Until then, for some Schengen countries your passport may need to be less than 10 years old during your whole visit, and the 3 months at the end of your visit may need to be within 10 years of your passport’s issue date.
Check both the issue date and the expiry date in your passport. If you renewed your passport early, extra months may have been added to its expiry date. This could affect the requirement for your passport to be less than 10 years old.
Contact your travel provider or embassy of the country you are visiting if you think that your passport does not meet both these requirements. Renew your passport if you need to.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
If you have lost your passport UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are accepted for entry, airside transit and exit from Denmark. Your ETD must be valid for the proposed duration of your stay.
