Coronavirus
The Danish authorities have introduced a number of measures to limit the spread of the virus. Denmark’s Health Authority (Sundhedssytrelsen) has opened a Coronavirus hotline on +45 70 20 02 33, operators speak English and Danish. There is also a Coronavirus website with all the latest information in English.
From 14 March until at least 13 April, the Danish border will be closed to foreign nationals who do not have a ‘worthy purpose’ for entering Denmark. Border checks will be implemented at all entry points. Tourists and those the Danish authorities say cannot demonstrate a ‘worthy purpose’ will not be allowed to cross the border.
Foreign nationals normally living (temporary or permanent residents) and working in Denmark are still able to enter the country, as are those who need to transit through Denmark to return to their place of residence, and those who are providing a service or delivering goods to Denmark. Proof will be required to demonstrate a ‘worthy purpose’ to enter. The Danish authorities have set up a helpline (+45 7020 6044) to provide advice on the conditions of entry for foreign nationals. They have also published an online Q&A.
Copenhagen and Billund airports are open. However, there are limited commercial means to return to the UK by air. From 21 March until at least 4 April, there will be no commercial flights to and from Greenland. The commercial air service to the Faroe Islands has been severely reduced, with only one daily service to and from Copenhagen.
Please contact your airline directly for more information on how your travel plans may be affected and the steps you should take.
The Danish government announced on 17 March that everyone entering Denmark should stay at home for 14 days.
Until at least 30 March, no more than ten people are allowed to gather either outside or inside (public transport, supermarkets, airport and work places exempt). All sport facilities, theatres, cinemas, restaurants, bars, clubs, shopping centres, and shops with close physical contact with customers are closed. Supermarkets and pharmacies remain open.
The Danish authorities have issued recommendations for travellers using public transport, including avoiding travelling during rush hour.
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
General
At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Healthcare
The rules on access to healthcare will stay the same until 31 December 2020.
You should get a free European Health Insurance Card (EHIC) before leaving the UK. After 31 December 2020, your UK-issued EHIC might not be valid.
The EHIC entitles you to state provided medical treatment that may become necessary during your trip. Any treatment provided is on the same terms as Danish nationals. If you don’t have your EHIC with you or you’ve lost it, you can call the Department of Health Overseas Healthcare Team (+44 191 218 1999) to get a Provisional Replacement Certificate.
It is important to take out comprehensive travel insurance that includes cover for emergency medical treatment and associated costs. The existing EHIC arrangements are not an alternative to travel insurance, as some health-related costs, including for medical repatriation, ongoing medical treatment and non-urgent treatment, are not covered. Read more about what your travel insurance should cover.
If you’re living in Denmark, you can also find more information on healthcare for residents in our Living In Denmark guide.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 112 and ask for an ambulance. If you are referred to a medical facility for treatment you should contact your insurance/medical assistance company immediately.
Faroe Islands and Greenland
As non EEA members, the EHIC scheme is not directly applicable for use in Greenland or the Faroe Islands. However, if you travel to Greenland or the Faroe Islands, you should still take your EHIC with you. The UK has reciprocal agreements with Greenland and the Faroe Islands under which British nationals can receive medical treatment equivalent to that which an EHIC would offer. You’ll need to provide proof of identity, including proof of nationality. Like the EHIC, this arrangement isn’t a substitute for travel insurance.
