There are commercial options to return to the UK from Denmark.
If you live in the UK and are currently visiting Denmark, you’re strongly advised to return now by commercial means. Don’t run the risk of getting stranded.
The Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advise that British nationals that wish to leave Denmark contact their travel operator to make arrangements to do so as soon as possible.
Flights from Denmark
Copenhagen and Billund airports are open. You should refer to carriers’ websites for the latest information on flight availability, but note that schedules may change. You should check the travel advice pages for any country that you transit through on the way back to the UK.
Flights from Greenland and the Faroe Islands
There are no commercial flights to Greenland until at least 15 June. Flights from Greenland can now be booked. The commercial air service to the Faroe Islands has been severely reduced until at least 13 June, with only one daily service to and from Copenhagen on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. All travellers to the Faroe Islands are required to go into quarantine for 14 days.
It is now compulsory to wear face masks on flights with several airlines. You should check with your airline before travel. Passengers are responsible for providing their own face masks.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK.
For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
See more information and advice about staying where you are if you cannot return to the UK.
Your journey home: re-entering the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK. You:
need to provide your journey and contact details up to 48 hours before you’re due to arrive in the UK
are not allowed to leave the place you’re staying for the first 14 days you’re in the UK except in very limited situations (known as ‘self-isolating’)
See also the list of people who are exempt from the border rules.
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) also provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
Help and support
Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British Embassy Copenhagen on Twitter and Facebook
If you cannot leave Denmark
If you cannot leave Denmark at this time, see advice on staying in Denmark during coronavirus
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
