Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. You should remain vigilant at all times.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Denmark
Terrorists are likely to carry out attacks in Denmark.
Attacks could be indiscriminate, including in places frequented by foreigners.
The authorities in Denmark have successfully disrupted a number of planned attacks and made a number of arrests.
Crime
Protecting your belongings
Crime levels are generally low, but pickpockets and bag-snatchers operate in crowded areas mainly around Copenhagen.
Thieves can use a variety of methods to distract you, particularly on crowded public transport. They sometimes also operate in hotel lobbies, cafes and restaurants.
Keep your personal belongings, including passports and money, safe. Keep an eye on luggage, including in the overhead baggage compartment, when travelling on trains to and from the airport.
Pickpocketing and bag-snatching is common in the following areas:
the central station
Nørreport Station
the main shopping street, Strøget
other areas popular with tourists such as Christiania, Nyhavn and Kongens Nytorv
inside Copenhagen Kastrup airport
You should take extra care in Christiania and Nørrebro, particularly late at night. There have been some instances of gang violence in these areas.
Laws and cultural differences
Dress code
It’s illegal to wear any clothing that conceals your face in a public place in Denmark. There are legal exemptions – for example, face masks for health reasons. If you cover your face in public, you may get a fine of 1,000 krone (around £115). If you do it again, the fine can increase. The law applies to both residents and visitors.
Illegal drugs and prison sentences
Do not get involved with illegal drugs of any kind. Although Denmark is generally a liberal society, drug use is illegal and the Danish authorities enforce the law. You will not be treated more leniently than residents. Drug dealers can receive heavy sentences. If you are found with illegal drugs thought to be for personal consumption, you may get a fine or prison sentence.
LGBT+ travellers
Same-sex relationships and marriage are legal in Denmark.
Read advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Transport risks
Public transport
Within Copenhagen you can use the same ticket on the metro, bus, train and harbour bus. If you travel without a ticket, you may get a fine of up to 1,000 krone (around £115).
Road travel
You need a 1968 international driving permit (IDP) or a UK driving licence to drive in Denmark. The 1949 IDP is not accepted any more. You cannot buy an IDP outside the UK, so get one before you travel. You can buy an IDP in person from some UK post offices – find your nearest post office branch that offers this service.
If you are planning to drive in Denmark, see information on driving abroad and read the RAC Denmark guide.
Be aware of the many cyclists present in Danish cities. Cyclists often have the right of way. Always check cycle lanes before turning right. Pedestrians also often have right of way to cross ahead of you if you are turning at traffic lights.
Driving a British car abroad
You may need a UK sticker to drive your car outside the UK. Since 2021, UK stickers have replaced GB stickers. Check the government guidance on displaying number plates for more information on what to do if you are driving outside the UK.
Bicycles and scooters
Many bicycle accidents occur when pedestrians do not give the right of way to bicycles. There are online guides in English on cycling in Denmark at Visit Copenhagen and the Danish Cyclists’ Federation (’Cyklistforbundet’).
Electric scooters are subject to road traffic rules. If you hire and use a scooter under the influence of alcohol, you could be prosecuted for drink-driving and you may be fined.
Arctic travel
Consular assistance and support to British nationals in the Arctic is limited by the capacity of national and local authorities. Make sure you have appropriate travel insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment or potential repatriation.
Before you visit:
consider the remote nature of certain destinations and access to medical facilities, search and rescue and evacuation options
have emergency plans in place, particularly if you are an independent traveller
Sea travel in the Arctic
Most people visit the Arctic by ship. Some areas of the Arctic are uncharted and ice-covered. Before you travel:
check the experience and credentials of operators offering travel in the region
consider the on-board medical facilities and discuss any pre-existing medical conditions with the cruise operator
Search and rescue
In the highest latitude regions of the Arctic, cruise ships may be isolated from other vessels or populated areas. Be aware that:
search and rescue response may be very far away
assistance to stranded vessels may take several days to arrive, particularly in bad weather
search and rescue teams will only offer basic transport and medical care; they are unlikely to be able to offer advanced life support
Greenland
Travel between towns is by air, sea or dog-sled only. Arctic weather can, and does, affect travel, and you should be prepared for delays and cancellations.
There is limited tourist accommodation around the international airport in Kangerlussuaq. During busy periods or when there is travel disruption, there may be no beds available unless you have booked ahead.
Supply chains are limited and travel times are long. You should ensure you travel with sufficient prescription medication for all of your time in Greenland.
The Faroe Islands
Smaller roads may be unpaved and winding.
The weather can change quickly, and you should prepare appropriately for the activity you are planning.
