Coronavirus guidance is being updated.
Read the Prime Minister’s statement for the latest information.

This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Denmark as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Denmark to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Denmark
For information on entering Denmark, see Entry requirements
The Danish government has agreed a controlled re-opening of Denmark. Full details can be found on the Coronavirus in Denmark website.
Specific guidelines on physical distancing, health protection and business opening hours still need to be followed and no more than fifty people are allowed to gather either outside or inside (public transport, supermarkets, airport and work places exempt). Public gatherings of more than five hundred people are not permitted until at least 31 August.
Most restrictions have been lifted in Denmark subject to social distancing advice being followed. Discotheques and music venues remain closed.
The Danish authorities have issued recommendations for travellers using public transport, including avoiding travelling during rush hour.
Health
The Danish Health Authority (Sundhedsstyrelsen) has opened a Coronavirus hotline on +45 70 20 02 33, operators speak English and Danish. There is also a Coronavirus website with all the latest information in English.
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Denmark
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Denmark, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
