This travel advice also covers the Faroe Islands and Greenland
The FCDO advises against all but essential travel to:
Denmark based on the current assessment of COVID-19 risks. The FCDO is not advising against travel to the Faroe Islands and Greenland.
With effect from 0900 (UK time) on 21 December, the Danish government have suspended all flights from the UK to Denmark for a period of 48 hours (until 0900 UK time on 23 December) in order to assess measures for the new variant of coronavirus. You should contact your travel provider for more information.
Further updates will be published when they are available. Check our advice on things to consider, and be prepared to stay overseas longer than planned.
If you are returning to the UK from Denmark, you will need to self-isolate on your return (unless you are exempt). Check the latest guidance for England, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales.
The FCDO is not advising those already travelling in Denmark to leave at this time. Travellers should follow the advice of the local authorities on how best to protect themselves and others, including any measures that they bring in to control the virus. You should contact your tour operator or airline if you have any questions about your return journey.
Travel to Denmark is subject to entry restrictions
Rules on entry to Denmark depends on whether you are arriving from an ‘open’ country or a ‘banned’ country. The UK is a ‘banned’ country
You must have a ‘worthy’ purpose to enter if you are arriving into Denmark from the UK. You must also present proof of a negative COVID-19 test, taken no more than 72 hours before entry.
See Entry requirements for more information before you plan to travel.
Preparing for your return journey to the UK
If you’re returning to the UK from overseas, you will need to:
provide your journey and contact details before you travel
check if you need to self-isolate on your return
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
If you’re planning travel to Denmark, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCDO’s guidance on foreign travel insurance.
There is a general threat from terrorism. There may be increased security in place over the festive period, including at Christmas markets and other major events that might attract large crowds. You should remain vigilant and follow the advice of the local authorities.
The UK has left the European Union. The rules on travel to EU countries will stay the same until 31 December 2020. This page will be updated with country-specific information for travellers to Denmark as things change. Sign up for email alerts and view the latest updates for UK nationals travelling to and living in Europe.
There were over 850,000 overnight stays in Denmark by British tourists in 2017. Most visits are trouble-free. However petty crime such as pickpocketing exists, particularly in larger cities. See Safety and security
It’s illegal in Denmark to wear in a public place any clothing that conceals the face. See Local laws and customs There are exemptions allowed in Danish law, when concealing your face serves a ‘worthy purpose’, e.g. for health reasons.
There is a requirement to wear face masks on public transport, including taxis and ferries, as well as in all indoor public spaces including railway stations, shops and shopping malls throughout the whole of Denmark in response to COVID-19 until 28 February 2021. See Public spaces and services
The Danish authorities increased border controls at the land border with Germany in January 2016 and between Copenhagen and Malmö in Sweden in November 2019. See Border controls
Terrorist attacks in Denmark can’t be ruled out. Attacks could be indiscriminate including in places frequented by foreigners. You should remain vigilant and follow the advice of local authorities. See Terrorism
If you’re living in or moving to Denmark, visit our Living in Denmark guide in addition to this travel advice.
If you need to contact the emergency services call 112.
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.
The Overseas Business Risk service offers information and advice for British companies operating overseas on how to manage political, economic, and business security-related risks.
