Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Guadeloupe on the TravelHealthPro website .
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic .
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Guadeloupe.
Returning to the UK
Travelling from and returning to the UK
Check what you must do to travel abroad and return to England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
If you plan to pass through another country to return to the UK, check the travel advice for the country you’re transiting.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Guadeloupe
Most measures have been relaxed within Guadeloupe. You should refer to the French Government’s website and the local Prefecture’s website (in French) for details of any remaining local restrictions.
Health
For information on entering Guadeloupe, see Entry Requirements
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Guadeloupe.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Guadeloupe
Wherever possible British nationals should aim to be vaccinated in the country where they live. We will update this page when the Government of Guadeloupe announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Guadeloupe vaccination programme started in January 2021 and is using the Pfizer-BioNTech, AstraZeneca and Moderna vaccines. British nationals resident in Guadeloupe are eligible for vaccination. Further information on the vaccination programme is available on the local Prefecture’s website and the French Government’s website (French language only).
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in Guadeloupe, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Guadeloupe, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
See advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
