The information on this page covers the most common types of travel and reflects the UK government’s understanding of the rules currently in place. Unless otherwise stated, this information is for travellers using a full ‘British Citizen’ passport.
The authorities in the country or territory you’re travelling to are responsible for setting and enforcing the rules for entry. If you’re unclear about any aspect of the entry requirements, or you need further reassurance, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
You should also consider checking with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Restrictions in response to coronavirus
To enter the French Overseas Territories, the French government have confirmed that individuals will need to complete a travel certificate. They will also be subject to a health check upon arrival, which may result in a period of quarantine for the individual concerned. Like mainland France, individuals travelling within or transiting through French Overseas Territories will also need to carry an attestation certifying the reason for travel.
On 8 April 2020, French authorities introduced a requirement to complete a travel certificate to enter the Overseas Territories. Depending on your point of departure, you should complete a Trip from Mainland France to French overseas territories or an International travel from abroad to French overseas territories travel certificate, which is listed on the French Ministry of Interior webpage.
This travel certificate should be completed before departing for France Overseas Territories, in order to be shown to French border authorities on entry and, where appropriate, transportation companies prior to boarding. If you do not complete the certificate, you may be unable to complete your journey.
Please note you must carry a physical copy of the declaration; electronic versions will not be accepted. You are able to produce a handwritten copy of the text if you do not have access to a printed form. If you are travelling from the French Overseas Territories to mainland France, you will need to complete a separate travel certificate; please see France Travel Advice.
In order to travel within or to transit through French Overseas Territories, you should complete an Attestation de déplacement dérogatoire to certify your reason for travel. You can carry a physical copy or an electronic version of this “attestation” (declaration). This declaration should be completed before starting your journey. For French Overseas Territories, this declaration does not replace the requirement for an travel certificate, detailed above. Further information, including links to both these documents, is available on the Ministry of Interior webpage.
The French Government outlined new measures on 16 March 2020 to stem the spread of coronavirus, which also apply to the French Overseas Territories. This included confining people to their homes except for outings for specific purposes effective from midday 17 March 2020. The local Prefecture website will have details of any further local restriction. Please see the Travel Advice for France for more information on Covid-19.
Regular entry requirements
Visas
Guadeloupe is an Overseas Department of France (département d’outre-mer).
If your passport describes you as a British Citizen, you will not need a visa to enter Guadeloupe. Other British passport holders should check the current entry requirements on the website of the French Ministry of Foreign Affairs and if necessary confirm with the nearest French Diplomatic mission.
If the UK leaves the EU without a deal, the current visa policy for British Citizens visiting Guadeloupe may change. We’re working with the relevant authorities to clarify entry requirements and this page will be updated as soon as further information is available. If you would like more details in the meantime, or want to discuss a specific issue, you should consult the French Embassy in London. If you’re a British Overseas Territories Citizen passport holder the current visa policy for travel to Guadeloupe will be unaffected by the UK leaving the EU.
Passport validity
Your passport should be valid for the proposed duration of your stay. No additional period of validity beyond this is required. 
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK ETDs are accepted for entry, airside transit and exit from Guadeloupe.
