

Terrorism  
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.      
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad. 
Terrorism in Guadeloupe 
Although there is no recent history of terrorism in Guadeloupe, attacks cannot be ruled out. 
Crime 
Protecting yourself and your belongings 
Avoid isolated areas, including beaches, after dark.   
Do not carry large amounts of cash or wear expensive-looking jewellery or watches on the street. Put valuables and travel documents in a safety deposit box or hotel safe.    
Outdoor activities 
Swimming safety 
See water safety on holiday from the Royal Life Saving Society. 
Scuba diving 
Diving schools may have limited resources and do not always observe safety and maintenance standards. Always:    
check a dive operator’s credentials 
check the conditions on your insurance policy – some policies require dive instructors to have certain qualifications 
make sure safety equipment is available on the boat, particularly oxygen 
ask about safety precautions, including the ability to transfer divers to a hyperbaric chamber 
If you have not had any previous diving experience, check what to do if something goes wrong, including how to call for help while at sea. 
Transport risks 
Road travel 
If you are planning to drive in Guadeloupe, see information on driving abroad and check the rules of the road in the RAC’s France guide as French driving rules apply. The guide lists driving regulations and other legal requirements you need to be aware of. 
Check with the local authorities or your car hire company what documents you need. You may need an international driving permit (IDP) as well as your UK driving licence. 
Extreme weather and natural disasters 
Hurricanes  
The hurricane season in Guadeloupe normally runs from June to November. Monitor local and international weather updates from the World Meteorological Organization and the US National Hurricane Center. 
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards. 
