The FCDO advises against all but essential travel to:
the whole of Guadeloupe based on the current assessment of COVID-19 risks.
If you are returning to the UK from Guadeloupe, you will need to self-isolate on your return (unless you are exempt). Check the latest guidance for England, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales.
Travel is subject to entry restrictions
Entry into Guadeloupe is restricted at present. For further information, see the local Prefecture website.
Travellers entering Guadeloupe will have to produce a negative result of a PCR test carried out less than 72 hours before departure. Arrivals to Guadeloupe will be required to self-isolate for seven days, before taking another PCR test.
Travellers may also need to produce a self-certified document affirming that they have no COVID symptoms and that to their knowledge they have not been in contact with any person confirmed positive within the last 14 days.
These entry requirements are subject to change. For further information on the entry restrictions in place for French Overseas Territories, see the French government’s website before travelling.
Returning to the UK
Guadeloupe is on the amber list for entering England. Check what you must do to enter England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
If you’re planning travel to Guadeloupe, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCDO’s guidance on foreign travel insurance.
For information about COVID-19 vaccines, see the Coronavirus page.
Several hundred British nationals visit Guadeloupe each year. Most visits are trouble-free.
Crime levels are low, but you should take sensible precautions. See Crime
The hurricane season normally runs from June to November. You should monitor local and international weather updates from the US National Hurricane Centre and follow the advice of local authorities, including any evacuation orders. See Natural disasters
UK health authorities have classified Guadeloupe as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For more information and advice, visit the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Guadeloupe, attacks can’t be ruled out. See Terrorism
Consular support may be limited in Guadeloupe. However, the British Embassy in Paris, France can provide consular support to British nationals.
Take out comprehensive travel and medical insurance before you travel.
