

Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.    
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in St Pierre and Miquelon
Although there is no recent history of terrorism in St Pierre and Miquelon, attacks cannot be ruled out.
Crime
The crime rate in St Pierre and Miquelon is low. However, petty theft and street crime do happen.
To reduce the risk to yourself and your belongings: 
avoid isolated areas, including beaches, after dark
do not carry large amounts of cash and be careful when changing money or withdrawing it from ATMs
do not wear expensive-looking jewellery or watches
keep valuables and travel documents in your hotel safe or a safety deposit box
Outdoor activities and adventure tourism
Swimming safety
See water safety on holiday from the Royal Life Saving Society.
Scuba diving
Diving schools may have limited resources and do not always observe safety and maintenance standards. Always:
ask to see a dive operator’s credentials
check the conditions on your insurance policy – some policies require dive instructors to have certain qualifications
make sure safety equipment looks to be in good condition
make sure oxygen is available on the boat
ask about safety precautions, including the ability to transfer divers to a hyperbaric chamber
If you have not had any previous diving experience, check what to do if something goes wrong, including how to call for help while at sea.
Transport risks
Road travel
If you are planning to drive in St Pierre and Miquelon, see information on driving abroad.
Check with the local authorities or your car hire company if you need an international driving permit (IDP) as well as your UK driving licence.
Hire car companies often have stricter requirements for their customers, such as a year of driving experience, a higher minimum age and holding an IDP.
