Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Haiti on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
Authorities have temporarily closed Toussaint Louverture International Airport. Check with your travel company for the latest information and restrictions.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Haiti.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Haiti
Authorities have declared a state of emergency until 30 May 2021. Current measures still in place aimed at tackling the spread of the coronavirus are:
a curfew between 10pm and 5am
the wearing of face masks in public places is compulsory
frequent handwashing/use of hand sanitiser
social distancing
a 14 day self-isolation period for anyone entering the country with symptoms of COVID-19.
Accommodation
Most hotels have re-opened. Measures regarding social distancing, use of hand sanitiser and the wearing of masks are in place.
Public places and services
Gatherings of more than 10 people are banned. The wearing of masks in public places is compulsory.
Healthcare in Haiti
Medical services throughout the country are extremely limited, easily overwhelmed and offer a poor standard of care. Emergency response is not guaranteed as there are not enough ambulances to provide adequate service. Ambulances may not have the basic required medical supplies on board. Life-threatening emergencies may require evacuation by air ambulance, which can be very expensive, at the patient’s expense.
If you think you have COVID-19 symptoms you should ask your hotel to take you to a private medical clinic.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Haiti
As information is available about the national vaccination programme, this page will be updated.
The Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) is the UK authority responsible for assessing the safety, quality and efficacy of vaccines. It has authorised the Pfizer/BioNTech, Oxford/AstraZeneca and Moderna vaccines for temporary supply and use in the UK. Find out more about MHRA approval for these vaccines.
British nationals living overseas should seek medical advice from their local healthcare provider in the country where they reside. Information about vaccines used in other national programmes, including regulatory status, should be available from the local authorities. This list of Stringent Regulatory Authorities recognised by the World Health Organisation may also be a useful source of additional information. Find out more information about the COVID-19 vaccines on the World Health Organization COVID-19 vaccines page.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
Information is available from the Ministry of Health (Ministere de la Sante publique et de la Population (in French and Kreyol).
