This page has information on travelling to Guatemala.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Haiti set and enforce entry rules. If you’re unsure how Haiti’s entry requirements apply to you, contact its embassy, high commission or consulate.
You should also consider checking with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Entry rules in response to coronavirus (COVID-19)
Entry to Haiti
If you travel to Haiti by air you may have your temperature taken upon arrival. From 9 February, individuals travelling to Haiti will be required to provide proof of a negative COVID-19 test prior to boarding flights. This may be may be either an Antigen or PCR test, and must have been taken no more than 72 hours prior to boarding. You will be required to complete a health declaration form on the flight, including contact and location information in Haiti, and present it to immigration authorities upon arrival. You may be asked to self isolate for 14 days in your own accommodation.
Specific entry procedures may change at short notice. Please check the Government of Haiti Ministry of Public Health website, or with your airline, for updated information.
Regular entry requirements
Entry tax
Tourists must pay a US $10 tourist fee payable in cash on arrival.
Visas
The British Embassy in Haiti does not provide consular or visa services. If you need consular assistance, you should contact the British Embassy in Santo Domingo (telephone +1 809 472 7111).
British passport holders don’t need a visa to visit Haiti for periods of up to 90 days. For more information about visas, contact the Embassy of the Republic of Haiti in London: 21 Bloomsbury Way, London, WC1A 2TH (telephone: 0203 771 1427) before you travel.
Passport validity
Your passport should be valid for a minimum period of 6 months from the date of entry into Haiti.
Yellow fever
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
Departure tax
Tourists must pay a US $55 departure tax. For most international flights this is included in the price of the ticket. You may wish to check this with your airline or tour operator before you travel. If the departure tax is not included in your air fare, make sure you have enough US dollars or local currency on departure.
