Coronavirus
Cases of Coronavirus (COVID-19) have been confirmed in Haiti. The Haitian authorities have introduced a number of measures to limit the spread of the virus.
The FCO strongly encourage non-resident British nationals in Haiti to consider leaving quickly to avoid difficulties they may face in getting home if travel out of the country and the region are further affected.
On19 March Haiti announced the closure of all its land, sea and air borders to travellers. Quarantine restrictions of 14 days have been introduced for travellers from affected countries.
On 19 March the Haitian President announced a national state of emergency and detailed further measures aimed at tackling the spread of COVID-19. We strongly advice all British Citizens in Haiti to follow the regulations set out by the President of Haiti in full. Key measures include:
A curfew between 2000 and 0500 effective from Friday 20 March;
Citizens to stay at home and limit movement to essential only;
Schools, universities, places of worship and factories to close;
A ban on all events/meetings of more than 10 people
Information is available (in French and Kreyol) from the Ministry of Health (Ministere de la Sante publique et de la Population
You should comply with any screening or quarantine requirements imposed by the Haitian authorities.
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
Health and Medical Care in Haiti
At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist are available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
UK health authorities have classified Haiti as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For more information and advice, visit the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
Dengue fever is endemic to Latin America and the Caribbean and can occur throughout the year. Cases of malaria and Chikungunya virus have been confirmed in Haiti. You should take steps to avoid being bitten by mosquitoes.
Cholera is present across the country. Make sure you drink safe bottled water wherever you are. See Food and water hygiene
Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation.
Medical services throughout the country are extremely limited, easily overwhelmed and offer a poor standard of care. Emergency response is not guaranteed as there are not enough ambulances to provide adequate service. Ambulances may not have the basic required medical supplies on board. Life-threatening emergencies may require evacuation by air ambulance, which can be very expensive, at the patient’s expense.
Physicians and hospitals generally expect immediate cash payment for care even if you have a proof of a valid travel health insurance. You will have to pay the full amount of the bill before your departure.
Medications sold in Haiti may be of inferior quality and pharmacies may carry expired medications. Supply of medications may sometimes be random and for this reason, some medications may simply not be available. You should bring adequate supplies of essential medicines, especially for specific medical conditions like diabetes.
If bitten by an animal while in Haiti, you should seek prompt medical advice.
UNAIDS estimates that around 130,000 adults in Haiti are living with HIV. The prevalence rate is around 1.7% of the adult population, compared to around 0.2% in the UK. You should exercise normal precautions to avoid exposure to HIV/AIDS.
