Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

Future commercial international flight departures cannot be guaranteed. Infrequent commercial flights have left Haiti for the USA, Canada and France. Such flights are advertised at short notice (48-24 hours before departure). Tickets for these flights can be purchased through the relevant airlines website. Where possible, and if they become available in the future, the British Embassy in Haiti will share relevant information about departure options on our travel advice and on Twitter @UKinHaiti.
No further flights are currently planned.
What to do
If you cannot leave Haiti at this time, you should:
follow the advice of local authorities, including local measures to help minimise your risk of exposure to coronavirus
find accommodation that’s suitable for your needs
keep in regular contact with family and friends at home, so they know you are safe and well
let us know you are in Haiti by e-mailing us: UK.inDominicanRepublic@fco.gov.uk
See more information and advice about staying where you are if you cannot return to the UK.
Future travel options
The UK government is working closely with airlines, the Haitian authorities and other governments to make sure options are available for you to return to the UK as soon as possible.
This travel advice will be updated when departure options become available. Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British Embassy on Twitter.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Your journey home
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British Embassy in Santo Domingo on +1 809 472 7111. Given the current Health State of Emergency in Haiti, the British Embassy in Port au Prince is not currently open for visitors.
The Embassy cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone. This page will be updated when departure options become available. To get the latest information, sign up for travel advice email alerts.
Further information
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
