Crime
The general security situation is unpredictable, and crime levels are high. There is usually an increase in criminality in the period leading up to the holiday season in December, the Carnival (in February or March) and the beginning of the school year (late August/early September). Theft, including armed robbery, purse snatching and pickpocketing, is common in Haiti. Criminal activity is especially prevalent in large centres such as downtown Port-au-Prince, where armed gangs operate. There is also a high level of criminal activity near the Haiti–Dominican Republic border.
Many incidents of armed robbery have occurred in Pétion-Ville and other areas frequented by foreigners, eg Peguy Ville. In most cases, victims were attacked in broad daylight by armed thieves on motorcycles. Some attacks have resulted in fatalities.
You should seek advice from local contacts or established organisations and make arrangements for your safety and security throughout your stay in Haiti. You should avoid travelling alone. Travel with others, especially those with reliable local knowledge. You should avoid displaying expensive items of jewellery and other valuables, and carrying large sums of money.
Avoid parking your car on the street. Park inside secure car parks at venues such as restaurants, and avoid leaving alone if possible. When travelling by car, keep doors and windows locked. Avoid travelling at night. Extra care should be taken when visiting downtown Port au Prince. UK government officials use an armoured vehicle and close protection when travelling to, and through, this area. See Local travel
Haitians, regardless of rank or social class, are at risk of being kidnapped. Although rare, there have been kidnappings involving foreign nationals, including missionaries, aid workers and children. Most victims have been released upon the payment of a ransom. In some exceptional cases, however, victims have disappeared or have been killed. You should be vigilant across the country, remaining alert to small groups of loiterers, especially near your place of residence. Keep doors and windows secure at all times and be vary of inviting anyone into your residence who you do not know or were not expecting.
The long-standing policy of the British government is not to make substantive concessions to hostage takers. The British government considers that paying ransoms for the release of hostages increases the risk of further hostage taking.
Avoid using banks or withdrawing money at public cash points where you may be observed and become the target of criminals. If necessary, make withdrawals from cash machines in supermarkets or hotels with security guards. Always be aware of your surroundings and who might be watching you. Gangs, often on motorbikes, target people making cash withdrawals or leaving banks, particularly those travelling on foot.
Security guards are recommended at residential properties.
Local travel
The FCO advise against all but essential travel to the Carrefour, Cite Soleil, Martissant and Bel Air neighbourhoods of Port au Prince, due to the high risk of criminal activity. UK government officials use an armoured vehicle and close protection when travelling to, and through, these areas.
If you visit low income or slum areas you may attract unwanted attention. Foreigners are viewed as wealthy and may arouse envy. If you do enter these areas, do not travel on foot, take sensible precautions and go with someone who has local knowledge and can speak Kreyol.
Avoid showing visible signs of affluence, such as expensive-looking jewellery or electronic equipment. Be cautious when photographing scenes in poor or urban areas, where people may feel exploited or insulted by being subjects of such activities, and ask for permission before photographing individuals. Remain cautious with new acquaintances offering friendship or hospitality.
Be vigilant when travelling around and take the following precautions:
never walk alone and avoid travelling after nightfall
always travel with a knowledgeable and reliable guide
avoid using taxis, motorcycle taxis or public transport (TapTaps)
only use rented cars with a local driver from a reliable agency
make sure you have all the supplies you might need for your stay; fuel, food and water shortages are likely
be aware that the security situation in Haiti can change at short notice, so monitor local news and follow the advice of the local authorities
Travelling to and from Toussaint Louverture International Airport
There have been reports of violent robberies targeting people as they arrive at Toussaint Louverture International Airport and as they travel by road to and from the airport. Be especially vigilant when travelling from the airport to your accommodation, including when leaving the airport and at your end destination. Be cautious when claiming your luggage upon arrival and keep your valuables and identification on you. Carry only small amounts of cash and do not resist if you are threatened by robbers.
You should avoid using taxis (see Local travel). Arrange secure transport in advance through a local contact and exercise caution when parking. You should avoid displaying expensive items of jewellery and other valuables, and carrying large sums of money.
Road travel
A UK driving licence is only valid for 3 months in Haiti. For longer stays, you will need a Haitian driving permit.
Most main roads (Route Nationales) between cities are in good or reasonable condition, though there are often sections that are potholed and/or untarmacked. Venturing off the main road will often require a sturdy 4x4 vehicle. Traffic signs are rare. The few traffic lights that are operational are mostly in urban centres.
Flooding is common after heavy rainfall. Roads are often unlit and it is not uncommon after dark to encounter cars, trucks and motorcycles driving without lights. Pedestrians also walk in the middle of unlit roads. Many people drive while intoxicated, with their lights off or do not follow the rules of the road. Avoid driving at night or in bad weather, even in the city.
You should drive cautiously at all times. Research your journey carefully before you set out, consult those with reliable local knowledge and have back up options if needed.
Always keep your fuel tank at least half full, as disruptions of fuel supplies are frequent. You should carry a mobile phone and a list of emergency contact numbers with you, as roadside assistance services are deficient. Be aware that mobile phone coverage is intermittent in some rural areas, so consider using a satellite phone.
Take extra care on the road between Haiti and the Dominican Republic. There are high levels of crime in areas near the border. Frequent blockades at border routes can quickly turn violent and make crossings difficult. If crossing the border by land, be prepared for long queues at the 4 crossing points. Make sure you have all the correct vehicle documentation and cash to pay exit and entry fees. Long stretches of the route are isolated, and without mobile phone reception. Aim to complete your entire journey during daylight.
The main ‘Route Nationale’ roads, especially Routes Nationales 1 and 2 which run north and south from Port-au-Prince, are subject to frequent, sudden and improvised blockades, such as burning tyres. You should monitor the local news and follow the advice of the local authorities before setting out on any journeys.
Air travel
A list of recent incidents and accidents can be found on the website of the Aviation Safety network.
The FCO can’t offer advice on the safety of individual airlines. However, the International Air Transport Association publishes a list of registered airlines that have been audited and found to meet a number of operational safety standards and recommended practices. This list is not exhaustive and the absence of an airline from this list does not necessarily mean that it is unsafe.
In 2012 an audit by the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) found that the level of implementation of the critical elements of safety oversight in Haiti was well below the global average. In light of the significant safety concerns identified by ICAO in respect of Haiti’s ability to provide oversight of its airlines, no Haitian airline is permitted to operate commercial services to/from the UK or its overseas territories. UK government officials are advised not to use Haitian registered airlines.
Political situation
Jovenel Moise was inaugurated as president of Haiti on 7 February 2017 following elections in November 2016. Following riots at the beginning of July 2018 the Prime Minister and the government resigned. A new Prime Minister and government was ratified by Parliament on 17 September.
The political situation in Haiti is extremely fluid and unpredictable and demonstrations can become violent very quickly. You should avoid political rallies, demonstrations and crowds.
Demonstrations and protest marches often take place in Port-au-Prince and other cities, especially Cap Haitien, Les Cayes and Jeremie.
Demonstrations may often be accompanied by improvised road blocks (also see Road travel). Curfews and new security regulations can be announced at short notice. You should avoid all demonstrations, monitor local news and follow the advice of the local authorities.
Communications
Mobile telephones are widely used and mobile data is available from some service providers (Digicel, Natcom). Signal reception varies greatly but is generally acceptable around Port-au-Prince and other cities. You can buy local SIM cards and prepaid cards widely across the country.
