This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Haiti as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Haiti to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Haiti
For information on entering Haiti, see Entry Requirements
On 19 March the Haitian President announced a national state of emergency and detailed measures aimed at tackling the spread of the coronavirus. We strongly advise all British citizens in Haiti to follow the measures set out by President Moise in full:
a curfew between midnight and 4am
you should stay at home and limit your movements to essential movements only
schools, universities and factories and places of worship are closed until further notice
a ban on all events/meetings of more than 10 people
the wearing of face masks in public places is compulsory
a 14 day self-isolation period for anyone entering the country with symptoms of COVID-19.
Land, sea and air borders re-opened on 1 July. The international airports in Port au Prince and Cap Haitien also re-opened on this date.
Several Canadian, American and Dominican airlines resumed a limited flight schedule from 1 July. You should follow the measures they have in place to limit the transmission of COVID-19.
The wearing of a face mask in the airport is obligatory. Arriving passengers will have their temperature taken and must provide contact details. Health officials will decide if passengers can return home or not. If they have no symptoms of COVID-19 they will be permitted to return home to self isolate for 14 days.
Registering with the British Embassy
If you cannot leave Haiti at this time, you should let us know you are in Haiti by e-mailing us: UK.inDominicanRepublic@fco.gov.uk
Health
Information is available from the Ministry of Health (Ministere de la Sante publique et de la Population (in French and Kreyol).
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Haiti.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
You should comply with any screening or quarantine requirements imposed by the Haitian authorities.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
