Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

Coronavirus: stay up to date
Cases of coronavirus (COVID-19) have been confirmed in Haiti. See information on measures introduced in Haiti to limit the spread of the virus. Find out how to return to the UK from Haiti.
See coronavirus travel advice for guidance on international travel.
Sign up for email alerts for Haiti travel advice.
The Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) is advising British nationals against all non-essential international travel at this time. Existing advice for Haiti remains in place:
The FCO advise against all but essential travel to Haiti due to the volatile security situation. If you are in Haiti, you should consider carefully whether you need to remain, and keep your departure options under close review.
Cases of coronavirus (COVID-19) have been confirmed in Haiti. The Haitian authorities have introduced a number of measures to limit the spread of the virus. See Coronavirus
If you live in the UK and are currently travelling abroad, you are strongly advised to return now, where and while there are still commercial routes available. Many airlines have suspended flights and major airports are closing, preventing flights from leaving.
There have been sporadic, unpredictable and sometimes violent demonstrations, protests and roadblocks in Port au Prince and throughout Haiti since July 2018, with a notable increase in civil unrest in the weeks since 2 September 2019. The movement of goods and people into and within the country is often disrupted due to blocked roads and security incidents. As a consequence, there are sometimes fuel and food shortages. There are currently no UK diplomats in country, although the Embassy remains open.
Consular support is not available from the British Embassy in Haiti. If you are in Haiti and need help, you should contact the British Embassy in Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic. Our ability to offer consular support in Haiti from Santo Domingo is limited. In the event of fuel shortages and/or a deterioration in the political or security situation, it may be affected even further.
If you’re in Haiti or due to undertake essential travel, you should remain vigilant and informed at all times, keep movements to a minimum and regularly review your departure options. Avoid all demonstrations and large public gatherings, monitor local media, follow the advice of local authorities and keep up to date with this travel advice. The following local FM radio stations broadcast in French and Kreyol: Radio Metropole 100.1; RFM 104.9; Radio Kiskeya 88.5; Radio IBO 98.5; Radio ONE 90.5; Radio Nationale d’Haiti 105.3; and Radio Pacific 101.5.
The Atlantic hurricane season runs from June to November. You should monitor local and international weather updates from the US National Hurricane Center and follow the advice of local authorities, including any evacuation orders. See Natural disasters
You should take great care due to the risk of criminal activity throughout the country. See Crime
Curfews and new security regulations can be announced at short notice.
You should heed the advice of local authorities before attempting to reach areas off the main roads.
Take extra care if you’re travelling between Haiti and the Dominican Republic by road, as there are high levels of crime near the border.
UK health authorities have classified Haiti as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For more information and advice, visit the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Haiti, attacks cannot be ruled out. See Terrorism
There are no central emergency services in Haiti. Medical facilities are very limited and offer a poor standard of care. Serious conditions may require medical evacuation, which can be very expensive. See Health
Take out comprehensive travel and medical insurance before you travel.
