Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Estonia on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Information on COVID-19 for Estonia is available on the Estonian Crisis portal.
If vaccinated in Estonia, you should contact local authorities for information on testing facilities, obtaining test certificates and obtaining proof of your vaccination status.
Entry and borders
All travellers arriving in Estonia can enter the country without COVID-19 related restrictions.
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Estonia.
Returning to the UK
Travelling from and returning to the UK
Check what you must do to travel abroad and return to England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
If you plan to pass through another country to return to the UK, check the travel advice for the country you’re transiting.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel via neighbouring countries
Check country-specific FCDO Travel Advice for details on travel restrictions in the neighbouring countries Finland, Latvia, Lithuania and Russia.
Health
Check the Estonian Health Board website for up to date information in English about coronavirus in Estonia.
If you have symptoms of coronavirus, the Estonian Health Board advises calling family physician advisory line on + 372 634 6630 or 1220 if dialling within Estonia (service in English is provided between 3:00pm to 5:00pm every day).
If you experience breathing difficulties or shortness of breath, call the emergency number: 112. If you have any coronavirus-related questions, please call the Rescue Board’s free 24-hour crisis line: +372 600 1247 or 1247 if dialling from Estonia.
For contact details for English speaking doctors and 24/7 pharmacies visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Estonia. This section includes information on medical cover while overseas and what you need to do before travel to make sure your medical costs are covered during your stay. The section also covers:
the use of European Health Insurance Cards after 1 January 2021
how to check if your prescription is valid in Estonia
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Estonia
We will update this page when the Government of Estonia announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Estonian national vaccination programme started in December 2020 and is using the Pfizer-BioNTech, Moderna, AstraZeneca and Johnson and Johnson vaccines. Please note that the Government of Estonia recommends that only those aged over 50 receive the AstraZeneca vaccine. British nationals resident in Estonia are eligible for vaccination if they choose to join the programme. Further information on the vaccination programme is available on the Government of Estonia Ministry of Health website.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in Estonia, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider.
If you receive your COVID-19 vaccination in Estonia, you can get an EU Digital COVID-19 Certificate from the national authorities. The Certificate proves that you have been vaccinated against COVID-19, received a negative test result, or recovered from COVID-19. It will help facilitate your travel within the EU and, in some countries, you can use it to demonstrate your COVID-19 status to businesses and other organisations. For further information visit the European Commission’s EU Digital COVID Certificate page.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
