The information on this page covers the most common types of travel and reflects the UK government’s understanding of the rules currently in place. Unless otherwise stated, this information is for travellers using a full ‘British Citizen’ passport.
If you are resident in Estonia you should carry your Estonian ID card or residence permit, as well as your valid passport when you travel. If you have applied for your residence permit but have not received it, you can carry your certificate of application.
If you have not yet applied for a residence card, you should carry evidence that you are resident in Estonia. This could include a tenancy agreement or a utility bill in your name that ideally dates from 2020.
If you cannot show that you are resident in Estonia, you may be asked additional questions at the border to enter the Schengen area, and your passport may be stamped. This will not affect your rights in Estonia.
Full information about entry requirements for foreigners is available on the website of the Estonian Police and Border Guard Board. You can also contact customer support line by calling +372 6123000.
The authorities in the country or territory you’re travelling to are responsible for setting and enforcing the rules for entry. If you’re unclear about any aspect of the entry requirements, or you need further reassurance, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
You should also consider checking with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Restrictions in response to coronavirus
Travel restrictions and borders
All passengers arriving in Estonia are required to follow the Estonian Government COVID-19 regulations that apply to their country of departure.
Travellers arriving from the UK are required to self-isolate for 10 days.
To shorten the self-isolation period, a negative PCR COVID-19 test needs to be taken no more than 72 hours before departure or a test taken on arrival in Estonia. A second negative test no earlier than 6 days after the initial test will allow you to exit self-isolation. Please read further information about the conditions that apply to test certificates
Those exempt from the self-isolating and testing requirements include:
individuals who tested positive for COVID-19 and declared cured no longer than six months ago; or
individuals who have undergone a full course of COVID-19 vaccination and no more than one year has passed since its completion
or arrivals from a country in the European Union, European Economic Area and the Schengen area with an infection rate below 150 persons per 100,000 inhabitants over the previous 14 days.
See the Estonian Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the full list of allowed entries, including from the UK and some other non-EU or EEA countries.
All passengers arriving in Estonia must submit a customer locator form. This can be done at the port of entry or electronically via the Health Board portal before arrival.
Demonstrating your COVID-19 vaccination status
Estonia will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 recovery and vaccination record. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
Quarantine requirements
Travellers without symptoms arriving from countries where the COVID-19 infection rate is 150 cases or lower per 100,000 people for the previous 14 days before arrival do not need to self-quarantine on entry.
If you’re arriving in Estonia from the UK, you need to self-isolate for 10 days.
To shorten the self-isolation period, a negative PCR COVID-19 test needs to be taken no more than 72 hours before departure or a test taken on arrival in Estonia. A second negative test no earlier than 6 days after the initial test will allow you to exit self-isolation. Read further information about the conditions that apply to test certificates.
Those exempt from the self-isolating and testing requirements include:
individuals who tested positive for COVID-19 and declared cured no longer than six months ago; or
individuals who have undergone a full course of COVID-19 vaccination and no more than one year has passed since its completion
Full details on testing for coronavirus in Estonia can be found on the Estonian Health Board website. See also information on arranging private testing in Estonia.
You should not use the NHS testing service to get a test in order to facilitate your travel to another country. You should arrange to take a private test.
Information on restriction of movement and quarantine requirements together with a list of countries from which arrivals are not required to self-quarantine is available on the Estonian Ministry of Foreign Affairs’ website and is updated every Friday.
You should follow the local quarantine measures of the country that you are in.
If you need further information about entry requirements, contact the Estonian Police and Border Guard Board, customer support +372 6123000 or the nearest Estonian embassy or consulate. You should also check with your airline or travel company for the latest information.
Regular entry requirements
Visas
The rules for travelling or working in European countries changed on 1 January 2021:
you can travel to countries in the Schengen area for up to 90 days in any 180-day period without a visa. This applies if you travel as a tourist, to visit family or friends, to attend business meetings, cultural or sports events, or for short-term studies or training
if you are travelling to Estonia and other Schengen countries without a visa, make sure your whole visit is within the 90-day limit. Visits to Schengen countries within the previous 180 days before you travel count towards your 90 days
to stay longer, to work or study, for business travel or for other reasons, you will need to meet the Estonian government’s entry requirements. Check with the Estonian Embassy what type of visa and/or work permit you may need
if you stay in Estonia with a residence permit or long-stay visa, this does not count towards your 90-day visa-free limit
Any time you spent in Estonia or other Schengen countries before 1 January 2021 does not count towards your 90-day visa-free limit.
At Estonian border control, you may need to use separate lanes from EU, EEA and Swiss citizens when queueing. Your passport may be stamped on entry and exit. You may also need to:
show a return or onward ticket
show you have enough money for your stay.
There are separate requirements for those who are resident in Estonia. If you are resident in Estonia, you should carry proof of residence as well as your valid passport when you travel. For further information on these requirements, see our Living in Estonia guide.
Passport validity
Check your passport is valid for travel before you book your trip, and renew your passport if you do not have enough time left on it.
Make sure your passport is:
valid for at least 3 months after the day you plan to leave Estonia, or any other Schengen country
less than 10 years old
The 3 months you need when leaving a country must be within 10 years of the passport issue date.
If you renewed your current passport before the previous one expired, extra months may have been added to its expiry date. Any extra months on your passport over 10 years may not count towards the minimum 3 months needed.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are accepted for entry, airside transit and exit from Estonia.
