At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Coronavirus
The Estonian authorities have introduced measures in response to the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. You should comply with any additional screening measures put in place by the authorities.
The Estonian authorities are advising against all travel in and out of Estonia. In addition, further temporary border controls will be introduced from 17 March limiting entry to Estonian nationals, those with an Estonian Residence Permit or foreign citizens with family members in Estonia. Those arriving from at risk countries (see list below) must self quarantine for 14 days. This includes passengers who have transited countries on the list. Travel to and from Estonia’s Western islands has also been limited to residents only and the ferry company Tallinn have suspended the Tallinn-Stockholm route. There are no restrictions for exiting the country. Foreign citizens will also be allowed to transit Estonia on the way to their home country if they do not show symptoms of COVID 19.
The Estonian Police and Border Guard will carry out health checks at international border crossing points (land, ports and airports) to identify travellers’ country of departure and check for symptoms of coronavirus. The Estonian authorities have announced that anyone who has travelled from a high risk area (list below) or has been in contact with an infected individual or has coronavirus symptoms must postpone travelling to Estonia or remain in isolation for 14 days after arrival.
As of 14 March 2020 high risk areas are: Egypt, Germany, France, Iran, Italy, Belgium, Denmark, Norway, Sweden, China, South Korea and Singapore.
Check Estonian Health Board Website for up to date information in English about coronavirus in Estonia. If you have symptoms of coronavirus, Estonian Health Board advises calling family physician advisory line on + 372 634 6630 or 1220 if dialing within Estonia.
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
You can find more information about cases in Estonia on the TravelHealthPro website.
Healthcare
The rules on access to healthcare will stay the same until 31 December 2020.
You should get a free European Health Insurance Card (EHIC) before leaving the UK. After 31 December 2020, your UK-issued EHIC might not be valid.
The EHIC entitles you to state provided medical treatment that may become necessary during your trip. Any treatment provided is on the same terms as Estonian nationals. If you don’t have your EHIC with you or you’ve lost it, you can call the Department of Health Overseas Healthcare Team (+44 191 218 1999) to get a Provisional Replacement Certificate.
It is important to take out comprehensive travel insurance that includes cover for emergency medical treatment and associated costs. The existing EHIC arrangements are not an alternative to travel insurance, as some health-related costs, including for medical repatriation, ongoing medical treatment and non-urgent treatment, are not covered. Read more about what your travel insurance should cover.
If you’re living in Estonia, you can also find more information on healthcare for residents in our Living In Estonia guide.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 112 and ask for an ambulance. If you are referred to a medical facility for treatment you should contact your insurance/medical assistance company immediately.
