There are commercial options to return to the UK from Estonia.
If you live in the UK and are currently visiting Estonia you are strongly advised to return now by commercial means.
UK special charter flights will only operate for priority countries where commercial flights are not possible. You should not assume that these flights will become available in Estonia because commercial routes are operating. Please do not contact the contracted travel management company if no special charter flight is advertised here.
Flights
You should check with Tallinn Airport, Tel: +372 605 8888 for available routes and planned departures for passenger information.
The Estonian Ministry of Foreign Affairs publishes regular updates on travel options and regulations on their website.
If you are trying to get back to the UK and need financial help, see the FCO’s guide on financial assistance.
Travel via neighbouring countries
Please check country-specific FCO Travel Advice for details on travel restrictions in the neighbouring countries Finland, Latvia, Lithuania and Russia.
Restrictions on passenger travel on ferries from Tallinn to Helsinki are due to begin lifting from 14 May 2020. Please contact Port of Tallinn, Tel: (+372) 631 8550 for passenger information if you are planning to travel via Finland.
Road
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Your journey home: re-entering the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK. You:
need to provide your journey and contact details up to 48 hours before you’re due to arrive in the UK
are not allowed to leave the place you’re staying for the first 14 days you’re in the UK except in very limited situations (known as ‘self-isolating’)
See also the list of people who are exempt from the border rules.
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) also provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British Embassy Tallinn on +372 6674700.
The Embassy cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone.
Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British Embassy on Twitter and Facebook
If you cannot leave Estonia
If you cannot leave Estonia at this time, see advice on staying in Estonia during coronavirus.
See more information and advice about staying where you are if you cannot return to the UK.
