Crime  
Crime levels are low although there is some petty crime. Pick pocketing can be a problem in bars, pubs, nightclubs and hotels in Tallinn’s Old Town when tourists are targeted for passports and cash. Be vigilant in bars, don’t leave your drink unattended, take sensible precautions and avoid unlit side streets and parks at night. If possible, leave your valuables in a hotel safe.
If you wish to report a theft, you should do so in person to Tallinn Central Police Station, Kolde pst 65, 10321 Tallinn, telephone: +372 612 5400.
Local travel
Travel from Ukraine, Russia and Belarus
If you have arrived in Estonia from Ukraine, Russia or Belarus and are in need of assistance, you should call + 00372 6674700 and select the option for “consular services for British nationals.” You can also send an enquiry via the web contact form.
You should read the Estonian government crisis website for information on the security situation in Europe and arrivals to Estonia from Ukraine.
Information on border crossing points into Estonia, including current waiting times for arrivals, can be found on the Estonian border crossing website.
Scheduled bus services operate across the Estonia/Russia border. Check the Tallinn coach station website for more information on schedules.
Public transport
A plastic smartcard and e-ticket system is in use in Tallinn for buses, trolleybuses, trams and inner-city trains. Information on buying and using smartcards can be found on the Tallinn Tourism website.
Taxis are widely available and reasonably priced. Transport apps like Bolt, Taxigo and Uber are also widely used. Make sure there’s a price list on the back window of the taxi, the taxi driver has a licence in a visible place, that there’s a visible meter and that it’s being used. Don’t use taxis that are unmarked; they’re illegal, unsafe and usually cost a lot more than registered taxis. Take extra care to avoid fake taxis in Tallinn Passenger Port.
Road travel
In 2019 there were 52 road deaths in the Estonia (source: Department for Transport). This equates to 3.9 road deaths per 100,000 of population and compares to the UK average of 2.6 road deaths per 100,000 of population in 2019.
If you are planning to drive in Estonia, see information on Driving Abroad.
Licences and documents
You can drive in Estonia with a UK driving licence. You must have the original V5C vehicle registration document if you’re driving into Estonia. More information is available on the website of the Estonian state portal or from the Estonian Transport Administration.
If you’re living in Estonia, check the Living in Guide for information on requirements for residents.
Driving a British car abroad
You may need a UK sticker to drive your car outside the UK. From 28 September 2021 UK stickers have replaced GB stickers. Check the GOV.UK Displaying number plates website for more information on what to do if you are driving outside the UK.
Driving regulations
By law, headlights of vehicles must be on at all times, including during daylight hours. Winter tyres must be fitted from 1 December to 1 March every year, but if there are severe weather conditions outside these dates (likely in most years) the dates will change accordingly. Check local conditions if you are driving in Estonia between October and April.
Do not drink and drive. The legal limit is zero. Those found over the limit face a fine and possible imprisonment.
See the European Commission, AA and RAC guides on driving in Estonia.
Winter travel
Be prepared for extremely cold and possibly hazardous weather in the winter (October to March). There is likely to be snow on the ground and temperatures may drop to -25°C or below. 
