The Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) advises against all but essential travel to:
The whole of Estonia based on the current assessment of COVID-19 risks.
If you are returning to the UK from Estonia on or after 4am on 28 November you will need to self-isolate or undergo hotel quarantine on your return (unless you are exempt). Check the latest guidance for England, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales.
The FCDO is not advising those already travelling in Estonia to leave at this time. Travellers should follow the advice of the local authorities on how best to protect themselves and others, including any measures that they bring in to control the virus. You should contact your tour operator or airline if you have any questions about your return journey.
Check our advice on things to consider, and be prepared to stay overseas longer than planned.
Travel to Estonia is subject to entry restrictions
Travellers from the UK are required to complete and submit a customer locator form (either at the port of entry or electronically before arrival)
The 10-day self-isolation period and COVID-19 testing are not mandatory for individuals who were either tested positive for COVID-19 and declared cured less than six months ago, those who have undergone COVID-19 vaccination less than six months ago, or arrivals from a country in the European Union, European Economic Area and the Schengen area with an infection rate below 150 persons per 100,000 inhabitants over the previous 14 days.
See Entry requirements for more information before you plan to travel.
Preparing for your return journey to the UK
If you’re returning to the UK from overseas, you will need to:
provide your journey and contact details before you travel
check if you need to self-isolate on your return
If your return journey to the UK transits another country, you should check whether it is subject to a travel ban or any other additional requirements. If so, contact your travel provider.
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
If you’re planning travel to Estonia, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCDO’s guidance on foreign travel insurance.
For information about COVID-19 vaccines, see the Coronavirus page.
There are rules about taking food and drink into the EU. See Taking food and drink into the EU for further information.
There is a general threat from terrorism. There may be increased security in place over the festive period, including at Christmas markets and other major events that might attract large crowds. You should remain vigilant and follow the advice of the local authorities.
Over 115,000 British tourists visit Estonia every year. Most visits are trouble-free.
If you are living in or moving to Estonia, please see our Living in Estonia guide in addition to this travel advice
Terrorist attacks in Estonia can’t be ruled out. See Terrorism
You must have the original V5C vehicle registration document if you’re driving into Estonia. See Road travel
Take sensible precautions against petty crime. See Crime
If you need to contact the emergency services call 112.
If you are abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.
The Overseas Business Risk service offers information and advice for British companies operating overseas on how to manage political, economic, and business security-related risks.
