Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Belarus on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
Commercial flights are operating to and from Belarus. Check with your travel company for the latest information.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Belarus.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements. You should contact local authorities for information on testing facilities.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Belarus
There are no local travel restrictions in place in Belarus.
Accommodation
Hotels remain open and there are no restrictions in place.
Public places and services
Shops, restaurants/cafes and manufacturing industries remain open.
Healthcare in Belarus
If you develop COVID-19 symptoms in Belarus then you should contact the Emergency Services using telephone number 103. You will be directed to your nearest Regional Public Health Care Centre. You should have your medical insurance details available.
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Belarus.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Belarus
We will update this page when the Government of Belarus announces new information on the national vaccination programme You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Belarus national vaccination programme started in April 2021 and is using the Sputnik V, Sputnik Light and Sinopharm vaccines. British nationals who are permanent residents in Belarus are eligible for vaccination if they choose to join the programme. You should contact your local polyclinic for further information. British nationals who are temporary residents in Belarus can also be vaccinated for a small fee. There are walk-in vaccination clinics in 11 government healthcare facilities and 28 pop-up vaccination centres have been set up in shopping malls and other places of entertainment including TSUM, GUM, the Komarovsky market, Titan, Galleria Minsk, MOMO, Globo, OutLeto, Zhdanovichi, and Stolitsa.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in Belarus, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
If you need urgent consular assistance, you should contact your local British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
