There are severe penalties for drug-related crime. These include prison sentences of up to 5 years for drug possession and up to 25 years for serious drug-related offences.
Homosexual relationships are permitted under Belarusian law. However, Belarus remains a conservative society and the LGBT scene is very low profile. Very few LGBT people are open about their sexuality. See our information and advice page for the LGBT community before you travel.
Belarus does not recognise dual nationality. If you have both Belarusian and British passports, the authorities will consider you as Belarusian, even if you enter the country on your British passport. This limits the UK government’s ability to provide consular assistance.
You should avoid taking photographs of all government buildings, military installations and uniformed officials. You could be fined for jaywalking.
If you wish to import goods or services for charitable purposes, consult the Belarus Embassy in London for advice about local procedures and tariffs. If you think your goods will be exempt from Belarusian taxation, you should get written confirmation from the Belarus Embassy in London, confirming this.
Surrogacy
The FCDO recognises the potentially difficult position of intended parents with ongoing surrogacy or planning surrogacy arrangements in Belarus.
If you are a British national with current surrogacy arrangements in Belarus, please contact FCDO on 01908 516 666. The FCDO may be able to provide support, such as issuing travel documents for British nationals.
The FCDO advises against all travel to Belarus. Due to potential security challenges linked to Russia’s war with Ukraine, we currently advise against commissioning new surrogacy arrangements here. If you are still considering commissioning a surrogacy arrangement in Belarus, check the surrogacy agency is still able to provide services. You should research prospective clinics in detail to ensure they are reputable, and consider the potential risks and challenges involved in pursuing international surrogacy.
If you already have surrogacy arrangements in place:
You may wish to ask your surrogacy agency about the safest location where all parties to the surrogacy arrangement can stay. The FCDO cannot facilitate evacuation.
Make sure you have sought specialist UK legal advice regarding Parental Orders and the documentation required for nationality determinations and travel documents.
We would also recommend taking in-country legal advice. This is important for issues like legalising of UK documents, notarising Belarusian documents, document processing and the maximum period of stay the authorities will allow.
Read the information for British nationals on surrogacy arrangements in foreign countries.
