If you live in the UK and are currently visiting Belarus, you’re strongly advised to return now by commercial means. Don’t run the risk of getting stranded.
There remain commercial options to return to the UK from Belarus. Belavia, the national airline, continues to operate direct flights to and from the UK four times a week. The situation in Belarus could quickly change. You should check with your airline or travel company for the latest information before you travel.
Belarusian borders are currently open, but restrictions in neighbouring countries could impact your ability to leave the country. You should check FCO travel advice for Russia, Ukraine, Poland, Lithuania, and Latvia.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK.
For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Your journey home: re-entering the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK. You:
need to provide your journey and contact details up to 48 hours before you’re due to arrive in the UK
are not allowed to leave the place you’re staying for the first 14 days you’re in the UK except in very limited situations (known as ‘self-isolating’)
See also the list of people who are exempt from the border rules.
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) also provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
Help and support
Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British Embassy on Facebook.
If you cannot leave Belarus
If you cannot leave Belarus at this time, see advice on staying in Belarus during coronavirus.
See more information and advice about staying where you are if you cannot return to the UK.
