!
Warning
FCDO advises against all travel to Belarus.

Terrorism  
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.     
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Belarus
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Belarus, attacks cannot be ruled out.
Attacks could happen anywhere and could affect western interests and places visited by foreign nationals.
Political situation
Demonstrations and protests are possible and could become confrontational, with security forces likely to use force to disperse and detain demonstrators. The authorities launched a violent crackdown against demonstrators across Belarus after the 2020 presidential elections.
Belarus is still a repressive environment. You should:
stay vigilant
avoid crowds
if protests break out, leave the area immediately
There is often a heightened security presence, including on the streets of Minsk and other major cities. Security forces (some may be in plain clothes) might carry out a stop and search or ask for identification documents, and require you to unlock your phone. Make sure you carry your passport or a printed copy of the photo page of your passport, and visa if you have one.
Risk of arrest and detention
You face a significant risk of arrest, questioning or detention if you have engaged in any political activity related to Belarus. This can include having donated to organisations or supported activity now considered illegal by the Belarusian regime. Laws can be applied retroactively by the authorities.  
If the authorities suspect you of engaging in and supporting activities against Belarusian law (including political activities), even if activities took place outside Belarus, you may be subject to: 
deportation
detention
investigation
prosecution
The risk of arrest and detention is greater for those, including for dual nationals, who have previously been involved in activities inside or outside of Belarus, or on social media, which the authorities have since classed as illegal.
Mobile phones and other personal items may be seized and inspected by the authorities, including at the border upon entering Belarus.
Dual nationals 
Belarus does not recognise dual nationality. Even if you have both Belarusian and British passports, the authorities will consider you Belarusian. In the event of arrest or detention, Belarusian authorities are unlikely to allow FCDO consular access. This limits the UK government’s ability to help you. 
Military service  
In Belarus, military service is compulsory for all males between the ages of 18 and 27. Dual UK-Belarus nationals in that age group may be liable for military service and should check before travelling to Belarus.  
Russian military activity
The Belarusian regime is facilitating Russia’s war against Ukraine. Russian military activity is taking place inside Belarus. The situation is unpredictable and there is a low risk that direct conflict linked to the war in Ukraine may spread to Belarus. In the unlikely event that a conflict starts, FCDO’s ability to support British nationals may be limited. Events in Ukraine are fast-moving.
There is a higher risk of military activity in places where there are Russian and Belarusian military personnel and equipment, including:
Mazyr/Mozyr (Gomel Oblast)
Zyabrovka (Gomel Oblast)
Vileyka / Viliejka (Minsk Oblast)
Gantsevichi / Hantsavichy (Brest Oblast)
Osipovichi/ Asipovichy (Mogilev Oblast)
Lida (Grodno Oblast)
Avoid restricted areas reserved for military exercises or operations. It’s illegal to take photographs of police or military personnel, or locations of strategic importance, including government buildings and critical infrastructure. There may not be warning signs in locations where prohibitions are in place. If in doubt, leave potentially restricted areas immediately.
Monitor local media, sign up to get email notifications when this advice is updated, and read our advice on how to deal with a crisis overseas.
Crime
Crime levels are low in Belarus, but be alert to the possibility of street crime and theft from vehicles or hotel rooms.
Border crossings
There may be long queues at border crossing points and there are few facilities for those waiting. Customs and immigration can be lengthy and bureaucratic.
If driving, you must be able to produce original vehicle ownership documents at border crossings. If you’re not the owner, you will need a letter to show you have ‘power of attorney’. You must have car insurance. See Road travel. 
If you overstay or break the temporary import terms and conditions, your vehicle could be confiscated at the border or at an in-country police checkpoint.
Belarus-Russia border
See FCDO’s Russia travel advice if considering travel to or from Russia.
As of 11 January 2025, foreign citizens with a Belarusian or Russian visa may enter, leave, stay or transit through either Belarus or Russia during the period of validity of the visa. This is limited to certain international border crossing points. For more information, please see the website of the Belarusian Ministry of Foreign Affairs.  
If you do not have a Belarusian or Russian visa, there are no legal grounds for foreigners (including British nationals) to cross the Russia-Belarus state land border including by road, bus or rail.
If you travelled to Belarus from Russia and need assistance, contact the British Embassy Minsk on +375 17 229 8200 or send an enquiry using the web contact form.
Belarus-Ukraine border
See FCDO’s Ukraine travel advice if considering travel to or from Ukraine.
British nationals cannot currently cross the Belarus-Ukraine border. If you travelled to Belarus from Ukraine and need assistance, contact the British Embassy Minsk on +375 17 229 8200 or send an enquiry using the web contact form.
Belarus-Poland border    
Due to concerns over forthcoming military exercises with Russia taking place inside Belarus, the border with Poland will be closed entirely from 11:59pm on Thursday 11 September. It is unclear when the border will reopen. Check the latest information on the Polish State Border Guard website. 
Belarus-Lithuania border
Only two border crossing points between Lithuania and Belarus remain open: Medininkai-Kamenny Log and Šalčininkai-Benyakoni. On 18 July 2024, Lithuania announced further restrictions at the border with Belarus to deny entry to cars registered in Belarus, with certain exemptions. For further information on these restrictions, see the Lithuanian government website. These border crossings may close or implement restrictions at short notice. Check the latest information from the Lithuanian Ministry of the Interior.
Latvian border
Only the Paternieki-Grigorovshchina border crossing point between Latvia and Belarus remains open. On 16 July 2024, Latvia introduced further restrictions at the border with Belarus to deny entry to passenger vehicles registered in Belarus. This border crossing may close or implement restrictions at short notice. Check the latest information on the Latvian State Border Guard website.
Transport risks
Road travel
If you are planning to drive in Belarus, see information on driving abroad and check the rules of the road in the RAC’s Belarus guide. The guide lists driving regulations and other legal requirements you need to be aware of.
You need car insurance to drive in Belarus. There is more information about insurance requirements on the State Border Committee website.
There is a zero-tolerance policy towards drink-driving. Depending on the situation, penalties can include fines or imprisonment.
Tolls
Drivers with foreign licence plates must pay a fee to use toll roads or face a fine. For more information, see the BelToll website.
There can be police checkpoints on routes throughout the country. Stop when instructed and have vehicle documentation available.
Road conditions
Driving standards in Belarus are unpredictable and road conditions vary. M-class highways are in good condition. Some R-class roads are impassable for periods in winter. Roadworks and potholes are usually poorly marked.
Air travel
There are no direct flights between Belarus and the UK.
Since mid-2021 all Belarusian airlines have been banned from flying into the UK. The EU has closed its airspace to Belarusian registered aircraft and has sanctioned Belavia the Belarusian state-owned carrier.
Due to international restrictions on Belavia, they may not have access to components which are needed for the safe maintenance of their aircraft.
UK government staff do not use Belavia.
The UK has placed sanctions on some Russian airlines, including Aeroflot, Rossiya Airlines and Ural. It is illegal for any British national or company in the UK to do business with these airlines, including buying airline tickets.
The UK has also sanctioned the Belarusian air traffic control operator. 
Rail travel
There are frequent standard security checks at some stations on the Minsk Metro. Transport police may ask to scan your bags. You must comply with this. You could be arrested if you refuse.
Jaywalking
Police can fine you if you are jaywalking – ignoring pedestrian crossings or signals.
Chernobyl site
There’s an exclusion zone immediately around the Chernobyl site. This includes the area close to the border with Ukraine in the south-east of Belarus. Access to this part of the country is limited. The risk of radioactive contamination from the Chernobyl site is insignificant elsewhere.
Laws and cultural differences
Illegal drugs
There are severe penalties for drug-related crimes in Belarus. Possession of illegal drugs, including small amounts of Class C substances such as cannabis, can result in prison sentences of up to 5 years. More serious offences, such as smuggling or trafficking, carry penalties of up to 25 years in prison and heavy fines. These laws apply even if you are only transiting through the airport.
Airports in Belarus have excellent technology and security for detecting illegal items. This is also used to scan the baggage of transiting passengers.  You should expect strict enforcement and serious consequences if found in possession of illegal substances.
LGBT+ travellers
Same-sex sexual activity is legal in Belarus. However, Belarus is still a conservative society and the LGBT+ scene is very low profile. Very few LGBT+ people are open about their sexuality. Read more advice for LGBT travellers.
Surrogacy
 FCDO advises against commissioning surrogacy arrangements in Belarus.
If you are a British national with existing surrogacy arrangements in Belarus, contact FCDO on 01908 516 666 if you have not already done so.
If you already have surrogacy arrangements in place:
You may wish to ask your surrogacy agency about the safest location where all parties to the surrogacy arrangement can stay. FCDO cannot facilitate evacuation.
In many cases, Belarusian law requires that the surrogate is married. This could affect British nationality for a child born under such a surrogacy arrangement. You should seek specialist UK legal advice about nationality determinations, Parental Orders and what you need for travel documents.
Seek in-country legal advice. This is important for issues like legalising UK documents, notarising Belarusian documents, document processing and the maximum period of stay the authorities will allow. Due to the security challenges, FCDO cannot confirm which lawyers are currently offering services. The surrogacy process in Belarus can be lengthy and complicated.
If you are considering changing your surrogacy arrangements, or making a new arrangement in another country, read the guidance for intended parents planning for international surrogacy.
Money
There are plenty of ATMs in major cities. However, there are currently problems withdrawing cash or paying with foreign credit and debit cards. Almost no major banks in Belarus accept foreign cards. Those banks that do may charge a higher commission.
There is also limited cash available. Many ATMs have limits on the amount of cash you can withdraw, particularly for foreign cards. Not all cards will be accepted in Belarus. Many reputable international money transfer providers have suspended operations in Belarus. Consider taking cash in US dollars or euros.
Sanctions
The UK government has imposed sanctions against a range of Belarusian companies and individuals. These may impact on financial transactions.
Exchanging money
It can be difficult to exchange British pounds for Belarusian roubles. US dollars and euros are more widely accepted. Use government-licensed currency exchanges and have your passport with you. If you exchange money elsewhere, you could be fined or arrested and the currency will be confiscated.
You cannot exchange Belarusian roubles into other currencies outside Belarus.
Bank services
If you’re travelling to Belarus, speak to your UK bank before you go. Because of sanctions against Belarus, your bank may block your card if you use it in Belarus.
