The FCDO advise against all travel to Belarus.
Russian military operations are taking place in Belarus. There is a high risk that military action may take place within Belarus. In the event of military action taking place, our ability to offer consular assistance will be limited. Routes out of the country are limited, particularly by air. You should not attempt to cross into Ukraine from Belarus. See Returning to the UK and Safety and security
COVID-19 entry restrictions for Belarus
Before you travel, check the ‘Entry requirements’ section for Belarus’ current entry restrictions and requirements. These may change with little warning. Monitor this advice for the latest updates and stay in contact with your travel provider.
Travelling from and returning to the UK
Check what you must do to travel abroad and return to England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
If you plan to pass through another country to return to the UK, check the travel advice for the country you’re transiting. If you will pass through a red list country, book your hotel quarantine package before travelling to the UK.
The FCDO advises against all travel to Belarus.
There are multiple reports of widespread military activity in Ukraine. The FCDO advises British Nationals in Ukraine to leave immediately if they judge it is safe to do so. You should not attempt to cross into Ukraine from Belarus. See Safety and security
If you’re planning travel to Belarus, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCDO’s guidance on foreign travel insurance.
For information about COVID-19 vaccines, see the Coronavirus page.
You’ll need to have valid medical insurance before travelling to Belarus. You’ll be asked to provide proof of your insurance when you apply for your visa or on arrival at Minsk, Brest, Vitebsk, Gomel, Grodno and Mogilev airports under the 30-day visa free regime. Contact the Embassy of the Republic of Belarus for full details of what’s required.
Belarusian authorities have launched a violent crackdown against demonstrators across Belarus following Presidential elections on 9 August 2020. See Political situation.
On Sunday 23 May 2021 a Ryanair flight from Athens to Vilnius was diverted while in Belarusian airspace and made an emergency landing at Minsk International Airport.
On 24 May 2021 the UK government issued an advisory notice to strongly advise all UK airlines to cease overflights of Belarusian airspace. The operating permit of the Belarusian airline Belavia to fly between the UK and Belarus has been suspended. See Safety and security
Although there is no recent history of terrorism in Belarus, attacks cannot be ruled out. Attacks could happen anywhere and could affect western interests and places visited by foreigners. See Terrorism
Most visits by British nationals to Belarus are trouble-free. However, we currently recommend against all travel to Belarus due to the increased threat of military action within the country.
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.
