Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Germany on the TravelHealthPro website.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Germany.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements. You should check that the test result can be provided in the correct format and language. For further information on testing facilities, including those that can provide a result in English you should consult the Patientenservice by telephone (116 117) or contact your local public health authority.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Public spaces and services
Both the vaccinated and unvaccinated must continue to adhere to basic non-pharmaceutical guidelines, such as social distancing, wearing masks in enclosed spaces, and regularly ventilating indoor spaces. Wearing a medical-grade mask remains a legal requirement in retail outlets and on public transport.
From 23 August proof of vaccination, recovery from infection or a negative test (up to 24hrs old for rapid antigen testing or 48 hrs old for PCR testing) will be required for entry into:
Hospitals and social care settings
Indoor gastronomy
Participating in events and celebrations
Barbers, hairdressers, or beauty salons
Indoor sport such as fitness studios, swimming baths or sports halls
Hotels (test at arrival and twice a week during the stay)
Children five years old and above are exempt from domestic testing requirements. As school pupils are regularly tested at school, they only need to show their school pupil card to prove their C-19 status. Individual States are able to forgo the above rules under certain circumstances, including where the incidence rate is below 35.
The fully vaccinated can demonstrate their status by either using yellow vaccination booklets ‘Impfpass’ which contain a doctor’s signature and stamp or two C-19 certification apps (the CovPass-App or the Corona-Warn-App; see below). Other vaccination certification is accepted for domestic purposes in both electronic and analogue form as long as it has:
The date of vaccination;
Name and batch name of the vaccine;
Name of the disease against which vaccination was given;
Name of the person vaccinated, their date of birth and the name and address of the person responsible for administering the vaccination, and;
Confirmation in writing or in electronic form with a qualified electronic signature or a qualified electronic seal by the person responsible for administering the vaccination.
Germany will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 recovery and vaccination record. If you are travelling with a printed PDF proof of vaccination status, it must date from 1 November to ensure that the certificate can be scanned successfully, if domestic certification is required. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
Those who have recently recovered from Covid must show a positive PCR test at least 28 days old but no older than six months.
From 11 October 2021 rapid antigen tests will be no longer be available free of charge. For those who have not been recommended for vaccination, such as pregnant women or children under the age of 18, tests will remain free of charge.
Additional rules apply in settings that can cause super-spreader events, such as mass gatherings, events in enclosed spaces, parties, bars and clubs. State and local authorities can restrict capacity at such venues. The 16 German States have agreed to restrict mass sporting events to 50% capacity above 5,000 participants and not exceed a total of 25,000 participants.
As rules may vary please check the latest local guidance (in German). There are a variety of sources in English including Germany’s NINA Warn App
Testing positive for COVID-19 in Germany
Anyone testing positive with a Point of Care (PoC) antigen test is required to take a follow-up PCR test immediately and to self-isolate. Close contacts are also required to self-isolate, although exceptions may apply for those who are fully vaccinated.
In the event of a positive PoC test, the test provider is required to notify the local health office (Gesundheitsamt), which is responsible for monitoring self-isolation and will provide further guidance in individual cases. You can find your local health office by postcode here.
Individuals testing positive must self-isolate in their home or where they are staying locally, or in another appropriate location enabling self-isolation. They may only leave their home and interrupt self-isolation to carry out the PCR test. Germany does not operate a system of managed quarantine in government facilities.
Mandatory self-isolation ceases in the event of a negative PCR test. Otherwise self-isolation lasts for 14 days, or until the local health office confirms release.
Healthcare in Germany
Further advice and information is available from the Federal Health Ministry (in English) and RKI public health agency (in English).
For contact details of English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Germany.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Germany
Wherever possible British nationals should aim to be vaccinated in the country where they live. We will update this page when the Government of Germany announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The German national vaccination programme started in December 2020 and is using the AstraZeneca, Janssen (Johnson and Johnson), Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna vaccines. British nationals resident in Germany are eligible for vaccination. All citizens normally resident in Germany covered by statutory or private health insurance can obtain a vaccination. British nationals resident in Germany should consult their state authorities for more information on local arrangements.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad. If you’re a British national living in Germany, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
If you receive your COVID-19 vaccination in Germany, you can get an EU Digital COVID Certificate from in-country authorities. The Certificate proves that you have been vaccinated against COVID-19, received a negative test result, or recovered from COVID-19. It will help facilitate your travel within the EU and, in some countries, you can use it to demonstrate your COVID-19 status to businesses and other organisations.  For further information visit the European Commission’s EU Digital COVID Certificate page.
To obtain an EU Digital COVID Certificate in Germany you will need a QR code. A QR code may be issued by the vaccine centre or GP where you received your vaccine. If not, a code can be obtained from participating pharmacies (in the German language only). You can then scan the QR code into the two apps used in Germany, the CovPass-App or the C-19 certification feature in the Corona-Warn-App.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
