This page has information on travelling to Germany. Check what you must do to return to the UK.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport from the UK, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Germany set and enforce entry rules.
All travellers
All travellers entering Germany from the UK are required to complete pre-departure digital registration, regardless of vaccination status.
If you’re fully vaccinated
Germany uses a two-tier system of risk categories (virus variant areas and high-risk areas), with distinct rules on entry and quarantine for each tier. See the complete list of designated areas.
The UK is designated as a ‘high-risk area’. You may enter Germany from the UK for any travel purpose if you are fully vaccinated.
Proof of vaccination status
From 11pm GMT on 3 January 2022 travellers aged six or over entering Germany from abroad must possess either proof of vaccination, proof of recovery or a negative COVID-19 test prior to arrival and present this proof on request to carriers or authorities.
Germany will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 recovery and vaccination record. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
Evidence of your COVID-19 vaccination status can be provided digitally (through the NHS app or NHS website) or as a printout (this can be requested from the NHS by calling 119). However, a screenshot or photo is not sufficient. Further details can be found (in English) on the German Embassy website.
The German government has published a checklist of acceptable proof of vaccination for entry purposes (under “What constitutes proof of vaccination?”). Such proof must demonstrate that a full course of vaccination against COVID-19 has been completed. The vaccination must be comprised of one or more of the listed vaccines. It must comprise the number of vaccine doses necessary to provide full protection, and at least 14 days must have elapsed since the last required single vaccination. For recovered persons, the vaccination may consist of the administration of one dose.
The proof must be provided in German, English, French, Italian or Spanish and include:
the personal data of the vaccinated person (at least surname, first name and date of birth)
date of vaccination, number of vaccinations
vaccine name
name of the disease vaccinated against
characteristics that indicate the person or institution responsible for carrying out the vaccination or issuing the certificate, for example an official symbol or the name of the issuer
Proof in written or digital form is accepted if it meets the above criteria. For the purposes of inspection by the carrier or border authorities, photographs of written proof are not considered proof in digital form. Proof in digital form should have been issued in digital form by the authorised issuer and transmitted in digital form to the authorised recipient.
The German government notes that, in addition to the above checklist, further requirements may have to be satisfied for the issuance of a digital COVID certificate on the basis of the EU Digital COVID Certificate Regulation.
If you’re not fully vaccinated
If you’re not fully vaccinated you may only enter Germany from the UK if you are a German citizen; the spouse/partner/child under 18 of a German citizen; a resident of Germany; the spouse/partner/child under 18 of a resident of Germany; serve in an important role; or have an urgent need to travel.
Travellers who are not fully vaccinated and do not meet one of the exemptions outlined above may not currently enter Germany from the UK.
For those individuals eligible to enter Germany who are not fully vaccinated, travel from the UK is generally subject to 10-day quarantine with test and release available after 5 days.
All permitted unvaccinated or unrecovered travellers aged six or over from the UK arriving in Germany need a negative COVID-19 test result. It can be either a PCR test that is no more than 48 hours old at the time of departure, or a rapid antigen or other test sample that is no more than 48 hours old at the time of entry. The result of the test required by the authorities can be either in paper or electronic form in German, English, French, Italian, or Spanish.
For more information on acceptable tests, see “What tests are recognised?” on the Federal Health Ministry website.
Quarantine after travel from high-risk areas
The UK is designated as a high-risk area by Germany. This means that travellers arriving from the UK, who are not fully vaccinated, are subject to 10-day quarantine, and test and release is available after 5 days. Fully vaccinated and recovered individuals are exempt from this requirement, once they have uploaded their proof of status on the pre-departure digital registration portal.
If, in the 10 days before you travel to Germany, you have been in an area designated at the time of entry as presenting an increased risk of infection, you must register online in advance of travelling to Germany. On arrival, you must travel to your accommodation and quarantine there for up to 14 days. If you are travelling from a high-risk area, you can be released from quarantine immediately if you provide one of the following with the pre-departure digital registration:
a negative C-19 test (only available after 5 days for travel from high-risk areas such as the UK)
proof that you are fully vaccinated (this means that you have taken the last of the recommended doses of a C-19 vaccine authorised in the EU more than 14 days ago)
proof that you have recently recovered from a C-19 infection. Proof of recovery is a positive PCR test no older than six months, but older than 28 days
If you are travelling from a virus variant area, you must quarantine for the full 14 days, and do not have access to early test to release.
For travel from designated high-risk areas there are some exemptions from the quarantine requirement, including for cross-border workers and individuals deemed to be providing essential activities. For precise details, see the Federal Health Ministry website page under the section, “What are the exemptions from the obligation to quarantine on entry?”.
If you have specific questions about the quarantine requirements which apply in your particular case, you should contact the local public health authority in your place of residence. You should also contact your local public health authority for further details on test and release. You can identify the relevant authority on the Robert Koch Institute webpage. Travellers from virus variant areas may be required by local public health authorities to undergo additional testing after arrival.
If you’ve had COVID-19 in the past year
Individuals who can prove recovery from the virus and the fully vaccinated are exempt from quarantine requirements. (See ‘Quarantine after travel from high-risk areas’ and ‘Proof of vaccination status’).
Children and young people
Unvaccinated children five years of age and under are allowed to enter Germany without a negative test as long as they travel with at least one fully vaccinated parent. These children are not obliged to provide any kind of evidence (no COVID test, etc.), but have to quarantine on arrival unless they are entering Germany to visit first-degree relatives and have spent less than 72 hours in a high-risk area like the UK or will spend less than 72 hours in Germany. For all other children under six quarantine ends automatically 5 days after entry. See the quarantine rules on the Federal Health Ministry website
If you’re transiting through Germany
For further information about transiting Germany, see the Federal Interior Ministry website, under the heading “When is transit through Germany permitted?”. The Federal Health Ministry has a definition of transit under the question “What are the exemptions from the obligation to register?”.
Exemptions
Information about possible exceptions for non-residents is on the Federal Interior Ministry website, under “What constitutes an urgent need for travel”. The decision on whether to allow entry in such circumstances is at the discretion of border guards.
HGV drivers and transport personnel
HGV drivers and other transport personnel, such as persons who enter the country from the UK on business for the purpose of international transportation of people, goods or merchandise by land, sea or air are generally exempt from the requirement to possess a negative COVID-19 test, proof of vaccination or proof of recovery. They are also exempt from a requirement to quarantine when entering Germany, provided they were not in the previous 10 days in an area designated at the time of entry into Germany as a virus variant area.
See “What are the exemptions from the obligation to furnish proof?” and 1. Transport Personnel on this page for more information on testing and vaccination.
See “What are the exemptions from the obligation to quarantine on entry?” and 2. Transport personnel on this page for more information on quarantine for this group.
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
Check your passport is valid for travel before you book your trip, and renew your passport if you do not have enough time left on it.
Make sure your passport is:
valid for at least 3 months after the day you plan to leave Germany, or any other Schengen country
less than 10 years old
The 3 months you need when leaving a country must be within 10 years of the passport issue date.
If you renewed your current passport before the previous one expired, extra months may have been added to its expiry date. Any extra months on your passport over 10 years may not count towards the minimum 3 months needed.
At German border control, you may need to queue in separate lanes from EU, EEA and Swiss citizens.
Check your passport is stamped if you enter or exit the Schengen area through Germany as a visitor. Border guards will use passport stamps to check you’re complying with the 90-day visa-free limit for short stays in the Schengen area. If relevant entry or exit stamps are not in your passport, border guards will presume that you have overstayed your visa-free limit.
You can show evidence of when and where you entered or exited the Schengen area, and ask the border guards to add this date and location in your passport. Examples of acceptable evidence include boarding passes and tickets.
You may also need to:
show a return or onward ticket
show you have enough money for your stay
Visas
The rules for travelling or working in European countries changed on 1 January 2021:
you can travel to countries in the Schengen area for up to 90 days in any 180-day period without a visa. This applies if you travel as a tourist, to visit family or friends, to attend business meetings, cultural or sports events, or for short-term studies or training
if you are travelling to Germany and other Schengen countries without a visa, make sure your whole visit is within the 90-day limit. Visits to Schengen countries within the previous 180 days before you travel count towards your 90 days
to stay longer, to work or study, for business or for other reasons, you will need to meet the German government’s entry requirements. Check with the German Embassy what type of visa and/or work permit, if any, you will need
if you stay in Germany with a residence permit or long-stay visa, this does not count towards your 90-day visa-free limit
Any time you spent in Germany or other Schengen countries before 1 January 2021 does not count towards your 90-day visa-free limit.
If you are resident in Germany your passport should not be stamped. You should proactively show your proof of residence as well as your valid passport at German control. For further information, see our Living in Germany guide UK nationals resident in Germany should not have their passports stamped on entry and exit, though they are required to demonstrate credible evidence of residence during checks to avoid receiving a stamp (see above). If a resident’s passport is stamped, this has no bearing on their legal status or rights, for instance as a beneficiary of the Withdrawal Agreement. You should consult the Federal Police (Bundespolizei) if you wish, as a resident, to have any stamp annulled. You should bear in mind that if your passport is stamped and you subsequently exit the Schengen area after more than 90 days, you must carry credible
Proof of residence
UK nationals resident in Germany must demonstrate proof of residence. If you are not yet in possession of a residence card, you will be required to provide credible evidence that you are resident in Germany.
This could include an address registration certificate (Meldebescheinigung), a tenancy agreement, a utility bill in your name, or a certificate of application (Fiktionsbescheinigung).
The German authorities have confirmed that individuals who are registered at a German address in the population register (Melderegister), who can present identification (including residence documents) displaying a German address, or documents (paper or electronic) issued in their name by third parties stating an address in Germany, may be presumed to be resident in Germany. A document which has been left in Germany but which can be accessed by someone else may be photographed or scanned and sent to the traveller abroad by email or via cloud for presentation at the border. See the guidance from the German Federal Ministry of the Interior, Building and Community.
If you are resident in Germany, please carry proof of your residence when travelling. If you were living in Germany before 1 January 2021, you should carry your residence document (Aufenthaltsdokument-GB), as well as your valid passport when you travel. If you have applied but not yet received your document, carry your certificate of application (Fiktionsbescheinigung).
If you cannot show that you are resident in Germany, you may be asked additional questions at the border to enter the Schengen area, and your passport may be stamped. This will not affect your rights in Germany.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are accepted for entry, airside transit and exit from Germany.
Working in Germany
If you intend to work in Germany, you should get detailed information on employment regulations from the German Embassy.
Returning to the UK
Check what you must do to return to the UK.
