

The Euro 2024 tournament will take place in Germany from 14 June to 14 July 2024. If you are travelling to attend:
sign up to get email updates on Germany’s travel advice and download the official Euro 2024 app and check the official Euro 2024 website to stay informed of anything that might affect your travel or plans whilst in Germany
keep your personal belongings and valuables safe, if your passport is lost and stolen, check the Getting help page
respect local cultural sensitivities (and be aware of possible repercussions). For more information, read the UEFA human rights declaration
Visa and entry requirements
Check the entry requirements for Germany, especially information on passport validity and visa-free travel within the 90-day limit.
Health insurance
Make sure you have appropriate health cover abroad before travelling.
Travel insurance
Get appropriate travel insurance as soon as you book. Check that it covers the places you will visit, the duration of your visit and any planned activities.
Match tickets
Check the Euro 2024 website for ticket information. Only buy match tickets from official providers. Tickets will be electronic and you will need your mobile phone to validate them at entry. Make sure your phone is charged and take into account roaming charges in Germany – check with your phone provider before you travel.
Match tickets bought through unofficial means may not be valid. If you sell tickets through unofficial means, you could be prosecuted.
Stadium entry
Entry restrictions may be different for each stadium. Check the Euro 2024 venues guide for more information, as well as the Euro 2024 app. You are allowed to carry a small power bank so that you have enough power on your phone to show your ticket.
There are some general rules which apply to all the stadiums, including:  
bags larger than A4 size won’t be allowed into the stadium 
you can bring a small power bank, no larger than your phone
make sure you have a valid form of ID on you
professional cameras and cane umbrellas are not permitted inside the stadium. However, you can bring a small, fully collapsible umbrella
all Euro 2024 stadiums are smoke-free venues. So smoking, e-cigarettes and any other tobacco products are not allowed
There is a full list of forbidden items in the stadium rules.
Transport to the event
Transport routes around the stadiums will be very busy during the tournament. Local authorities may ask you to enter or leave the stadium by specific routes. Make sure you:
plan your journey
leave plenty of time, particularly on match days
Ticket holders will have access to discounted national and international train tickets, as well as a 36 Hour Travel Pass for public transport.
For more information on travel in Germany during the Euro 2024 tournament, see the official Euro 2024 website or use the Euro 2024 app.
Alcohol
Beer can be stronger than in the UK, so drink responsibly, know your limits and respect local laws. You may not be let into the stadium if you drink too much.
Football villages
Each host city will have a football village, where fans can spend time before and during the matches. Restrictions on what you can take into football villages and live viewing areas may vary between cities. Check the Euro 2024 venues guide for more information as well as the Euro 2024 app.
