At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Coronavirus
The German authorities have introduced a number of precautionary measures in response to the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. You should comply with any additional screening measures put in place by the authorities.
The German Health Minister has advised that all people in Germany who have been in Italy, Switzerland or Austria in the last 14 days should self-isolate for two weeks. This is in addition to conditions placed on travellers returning from a number of high risk areas listed on the Robert Koch Institute website (in German).
Germany’s federal states have now agreed a minimum level of social distancing to help manage the spread of COVID-19, e.g. school closures, closure of public spaces such as nightclubs, museums, cinemas, bookmakers, sports clubs and non-essential shops. Supermarkets, petrol station and pharmacies will remain open. Large gatherings, church and mosque services, and coach tours have been banned. Across Germany, restaurants are only allowed to be open from 6am to 6pm. Hotels are explicitly not to be open to tourists. Visits to hospitals and care homes are restricted. As there is some variation between the federal states, please follow the latest local guidance, much of which is available in English.
The German Interior Minister has announced that Germany will impose temporary border checks on its land borders with France, Austria, Switzerland, Luxembourg and Denmark from 8am on Monday 16 March. Those without a good reason for travelling will not be permitted entry. Frontier workers and goods traffic will not be affected. German nationals and residents will be allowed to return to Germany. The south-western state of Baden-Württemberg has announced that it wants to close its airports on or shortly after 19 March. Germany is advising its own citizens against all unnecessary travel abroad.
Countries neighbouring Germany (France, Austria, Switzerland, Luxembourg and Denmark) have also introduced restrictions. Please check country-specific FCO Travel Advice for details.
There are reduced commercial means of leaving Germany to return to the UK by air. Please contact your airline directly for more information on how your travel plans may be affected and the steps you should take.
Further advice and information is available from the Federal Health Ministry (in English) and RKI public health agency (in German).
Further advice on coronavirus is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
Healthcare
The rules on access to healthcare will stay the same until 31 December 2020.
You should get a free European Health Insurance Card (EHIC) before leaving the UK. After 31 December 2020, your UK-issued EHIC might not be valid.
The EHIC entitles you to state provided medical treatment that may become necessary during your trip. Any treatment provided is on the same terms as German nationals. If you don’t have your EHIC with you or you’ve lost it, you can call the Department of Health Overseas Healthcare Team (+44 191 218 1999) to get a Provisional Replacement Certificate.
It is important to take out comprehensive travel insurance that includes cover for emergency medical treatment and associated costs. The existing EHIC arrangements are not an alternative to travel insurance, as some health-related costs, including for medical repatriation, ongoing medical treatment and non-urgent treatment, are not covered. Read more about what your travel insurance should cover.
If you’re living in Germany, you can also find more information on healthcare for residents in our Living In Germany guide.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 112 and ask for an ambulance. If you are referred to a medical facility for treatment you should contact your insurance/medical assistance company immediately.
