There remain commercial options to return to the UK from Germany.
If you live in the UK and are currently visiting Germany, you are strongly advised to return now by commercial means. Don’t run the risk of getting stranded.
UK special charter flights will only operate for priority countries where commercial flights are not possible. You should not assume that these flights will become available in countries where commercial routes are operating. Please do not contact the contracted travel management company if no flight is advertised here.
Flights
Flights to London are available from Berlin, Düsseldorf, Frankfurt am Main and Munich.
British Airways, Eurowings, Lufthansa and Ryanair are still operating. Check airline websites for the latest flight schedules and availability. You should ensure you are aware of your airline’s policy on protective measures on board flights; some carriers have made the wearing of face masks compulsory, for example.
In order to return to Northern Ireland, there are flights to Dublin operated by Ryanair. Check travel advice for Ireland
Transit via Germany
If you are transiting Germany to travel to the UK, you will need to have onward travel booked before you will be allowed to enter Germany.
If you intend to stay at a hotel during your transit period, consult your airline in advance as authorities at some airports are insisting that transiting passengers remain in the transit area. If you are advised that a hotel stay is permitted, e.g. because you are changing airports, then you will need to have accommodation booked before you enter Germany.
Travelling to the airport
If booking accommodation, ensure that you can still get to the airport, as many hotel shuttles are no longer running.
Road
If you plan to return to the UK by road, it is possible to transit through neighbouring countries if:
you have evidence of your onward journey
you do not show symptoms of illness that could indicate a coronavirus infection
An example of ‘acceptable evidence’ would include a confirmed ferry or Eurotunnel booking to the UK.
In order to travel through France, you should also complete a personal travel waiver certificate. Check the latest travel advice for France ahead of your journey.
As with other forms of transport, many cross-Channel operators are operating substantially reduced services for passenger traffic. Passengers should check with their operator before departing, and may still be subject to severe disruption. Check travel advice for any country that you will transit on the way back to the UK.
Help and support
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Your journey home
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Further information
Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British Embassy Berlin on Twitter and Facebook.
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
