

Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Germany
Terrorists are very likely to try to carry out attacks in Germany.
Attacks could be indiscriminate, including in public places visited by foreign nationals such as:
restaurants
markets
shopping centres
places of worship and religious sites, including synagogues
Examples of recent attacks include:
in 2021, 5 people were stabbed and injured on a train in Neumarkt, Bavaria
in 2020, one person was killed and another seriously injured in a knife attack in Dresden
in 2020, 8 people were killed and 5 injured in 2 mass shootings in shisha bars in Hanau
in 2019, 2 people were shot and killed after a failed attempt to enter a synagogue in the eastern German city of Halle
German authorities regularly report that they have disrupted planned attacks and made arrests.
Crime
Protecting yourself and your belongings
Crime levels are similar to the UK. Take sensible precautions to avoid mugging, bag-snatching and pickpocketing. Be particularly vigilant at airports, railway stations and in crowded public places or gatherings. Do not leave bags unattended.
Counterfeit currency
Only change money at banks, ATMs or official money exchanges. Check your change when paying in cash. British nationals have been arrested for trying to pay with counterfeit currency.
Laws and cultural differences
Personal ID
It’s not a legal requirement to carry ID. However, if you cannot show ID when asked, police can escort you to get your passport.
They will ask for a passport and, if you are a resident, for your residence card as well.
Outdoor activities and adventure tourism
If you’re taking part in organised outdoor activities, check that the company is reputable and has documented safety procedures.
For sports activities like skiing, potholing and mountaineering, and for sports classed as particularly dangerous (for example off-piste skiing, mountain biking, climbing or paragliding), your insurance should include:
mountain rescue services
helicopter costs
repatriation to your country of residence or possible transfer to neighbouring countries for treatment
Hiking
Check weather forecasts and conditions and make sure you’re properly equipped for the worst-case scenario with items such as a map, compass, GPS and telecommunication equipment.
Risks are greater if you undertake any activity alone. You may want to hire a guide for expert advice. Always leave copies of your itinerary with someone.
Winter sports
Read about preparing for winter sports abroad.
Take advice on weather and avalanche conditions before you travel. Follow local skiing laws and regulations.
Off-piste skiing is very dangerous and can invalidate your travel insurance. Avalanches are a risk in some areas. Follow safety instructions carefully and go with a qualified guide. Check ahead on the European Avalanche Warning Service website. 
Transport risks
Road travel
If you are planning to drive in Germany, see information on driving abroad and check the rules of the road in the RAC’s Germany guide. The guide lists driving regulations and other legal requirements you need to be aware of. 
You can drive in Germany for up to 6 months with your UK photocard driving licence. If you stay longer, you’ll need to have both the 1968 version of the international driving permit (IDP) and your UK driving licence with you in the car. You cannot buy an IDP outside the UK, so get one before you travel.
The German Federal Transport Ministry has more information on the validity of non-German driving licences.
If you’re driving a vehicle that does not belong to you, you may need to show written permission from the registered owner.
Check if you need a UK sticker to drive your car outside the UK.
If you live in Germany, check the driving requirements for residents.
Low emission zones
Some inner-city areas have an environmental zone (‘Umweltzone’). Only vehicles that meet specific exhaust emission standards can enter. See Federal Ministry for the Environment, Nature Conservation, Nuclear Safety and Consumer Protection for more information.
Extreme weather and natural disasters
Flooding
Floods are affecting some parts of Germany, particularly in Bavaria and Baden Wurttemberg. Follow the advice of the local authorities, as well as the German Met Office, and be sure to check your transport plans before you travel.
