This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Germany as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Germany to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Germany
For information on entering Germany see Entry Requirements
There are nationwide rules in place restricting movement and limiting activity:
one household can meet another outside
schools are gradually re-opening with social distancing, hygiene plans and increased digital learning in place
hospitals and care homes that have no active COVID-19 cases can now start developing plans for receiving visitors again
home working is still recommended wherever possible
shops can re-open from 11 May, subject to limits on the number of customers per square metre
outdoor non-contact sports are permitted, with the Bundesliga resuming from 15 May behind closed doors
re-opening of restaurants, hotels, theatres, cinemas, bars, trade fairs and other facilities will differ from region to region, reflecting local conditions
The wearing of face masks is required in certain public areas in all of Germany’s 16 states. The rules vary from state to state - check the latest local guidance (in German).
Further restrictions vary by region, so you should follow the latest local guidance, much of which is available in English.
Health
Further advice and information is available from the Federal Health Ministry (in English) and RKI public health agency (in English).
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Germany
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Germany, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
