The FCDO advises against all but essential travel to:
the whole of Germany based on the current assessment of COVID-19 risks.
The German Government has extended its ban on air passenger flights arriving from the UK to Germany to a ban on all forms of transport until Wednesday 6 January 2021.
During this period, transport operators are banned from offering plane, bus, ferry and train journeys from the UK to Germany.
From 1 January 2021, transport operators can apply to the German authorities for an exemption to transport individuals who are resident in Germany. Contact your transport operator for more information.
Travellers arriving in Germany who have been in the UK in the preceding 10 days will be required to provide their local public health authority with a negative coronavirus test result and to be able to show it at the border. The test can no longer be taken upon or immediately after entry to Germany. The German government has asked airlines and other transportation companies to only transport those travellers who can present proof of the test at the start of their journey. The test result can be in either paper or electronic form. The test must have been taken less than 48 hours before you enter Germany. Even with a negative test, you will still then be required to self-isolate for 10 days following your arrival in Germany, with the possibility for test and release after 5 days.
If you are returning to the UK from Germany, you will need to self-isolate on your return (unless you are exempt). Check the latest guidance for England, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales.
The FCDO is not advising those already travelling in Germany to leave at this time. Travellers should follow the advice of the local authorities on how best to protect themselves and others, including any measures that they bring in to control the virus. You should contact your tour operator or airline if you have any questions about your return journey.
Travel is subject to possible quarantine
There are COVID-19-related testing and quarantine requirements on arrival into Germany from any part of the UK. See Entry requirements for more information before you plan to travel.
Preparing for your return journey to the UK
If you’re returning to the UK from overseas, you will need to:
provide your journey and contact details before you travel
check if you need to self-isolate on your return
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
If you’re planning travel to Germany, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCDO’s guidance on foreign travel insurance.
There is a general threat from terrorism. There may be increased security in place over the festive period, including at Christmas markets and other major events that might attract large crowds. You should remain vigilant and follow the advice of the local authorities.
Around 2 million British nationals visit Germany every year. Most visits are trouble-free.
If you’re living in or moving to Germany, visit our Living in Germany guide in addition to this travel advice.
There’s no requirement to carry your passport with you, but if you’re asked to show your passport and you don’t have it with you, the police may escort you to wherever your passport is being kept so that you can show it to them. See Local laws and customs
Terrorists are highly likely to try to carry out attacks in Germany. The German government has announced that increased security has been put in place as a precaution at public buildings, major events, transport hubs and large public gatherings. You should be vigilant and follow the advice of local authorities. See Terrorism
British nationals have been arrested for possessing counterfeit currency. Avoid changing money anywhere other than banks or legitimate currency exchange offices. See Money
If you need to contact the emergency services call 112.
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.
