!
Warning
FCDO advises against all travel to parts of Ethiopia.

The Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) cannot provide tailored advice for individual trips. Read this travel advice and carry out your own research before deciding whether to travel.
Emergency services in Ethiopia
Police and emergency: 911
Ambulance (Addis Ababa): 907
Contact your travel provider and insurer
Contact your travel provider and your insurer if you are involved in a serious incident or emergency abroad. They will tell you if they can help and what you need to do.
Refunds and changes to travel
For refunds or changes to travel, contact your travel provider. You may also be able to make a claim through insurance. However, insurers usually require you to talk to your travel provider first.
Find out more about changing or cancelling travel plans, including:
where to get advice if you are in a dispute with a provider
how to access previous versions of travel advice to support a claim
Support from FCDO 
FCDO has guidance on staying safe and what to do if you need help or support abroad, including: 
finding English-speaking lawyers, funeral directors and translators and interpreters in Ethiopia
dealing with a death in Ethiopia
being arrested or imprisoned in Ethiopia
getting help if you’re a victim of crime
what to do if you’re in hospital
if you’re affected by a crisis
Contacting FCDO
Help abroad
See how to get help from the UK government abroad including in an emergency.
The current political and security situation means the British Embassy in Addis Ababa may only be able to provide limited support in person. 
Help in the UK
You can call FCDO in London if you need urgent help because something has happened to a friend or relative abroad.
Telephone: 020 7008 5000 (24 hours)
Find out about call charges
Get travel advice updates
Sign up to get email notifications when this travel advice is updated.
Follow and contact FCDO:
travel advice on X
travel advice on Facebook
Risk information for British companies
The Overseas Business Risk service offers information and advice for British companies operating in Ethiopia on how to manage political, economic, and business security-related risks.
