At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Coronavirus
Cases of coronavirus (COVID-19) have been confirmed in Ethiopia. The Ethiopian authorities have introduced a number of measures to limit the spread of the virus.
Travel
Travel
Advice to return home is aimed at British people travelling abroad rather than those who are permanent residents overseas, including in Ethiopia, who are urged to follow the advice of the local authorities..
All passengers arriving into the country will be subject to mandatory 14 day quarantine. Quarantine will be in hotels designated by the local authorities. The cost of staying at the hotel during quarantine will be borne by passengers. You may need to demonstrate that you can afford the cost of your hotel quarantine before boarding your flight. Please contact your airline for more details.
Passengers with an onward ticket are exempt from quarantine. When booking flights that transit through Addis Ababa, you should avoid flights that will require you to stay for more than 48 hours. Where passengers are in possession of a transit visa, you will be taken to a designated hotel for the duration of your transfer. Shorter transfers for passengers who remain within the airport are unaffected.
On 23 March the Government of Ethiopia announced the closure of the country’s land borders. You should check for updates with local authorities before travelling to the border.
Addis Ababa Bole International Airport (and other international ports of arrival) have put in place additional measures to screen passengers arriving, departing or transiting through Ethiopia. Screening may include temperature measurements and checks on recent travel to affected areas.
Those people displaying symptoms linked to coronavirus may be transferred to a nearby isolation facility for up to 24 hours while further tests are carried out. The Ethiopian Public Health Institute advises that anyone who tests positive for the virus but displays only mild symptoms will be required to remain at the isolation facility for a further 14 days, in line with WHO guidance. Anyone with a pre-existing condition that requires regular medicines should bring sufficient amounts to cover a potential unplanned additional 2 week stay. More serious cases will be transferred to hospital.
Local measures
The Government of Ethiopia has announced additional measures including closing schools, bars and nightclubs and banning large gatherings. On 23 March it was announced the security forces would begin enforcing these measures where necessary. You should comply with all such limitations and monitor local media for further updates.
Healthcare
You can call the Ethiopian COVID-19 helplines on 8335 or 952 for advice or if you are experiencing symptoms while in Ethiopia. Current information is available from the Ethiopian Public Health Institute.
Private healthcare facilities used by the international community with the capability to respond to coronavirus cases exist, but capacity is limited. These facilities are also those most frequently recommended by British travel insurance companies for other illnesses or injuries. You should therefore be aware that the ability to access treatment for other ailments is likely to be limited. You should check with your insurance company which facilities they recommend and phone the healthcare facility before you visit.
Crime
We are aware of reports of abusive behaviour towards foreigners in relation to coronavirus, including a small number of cases of assault. See Crime for general advice on crime in Ethiopia.
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England, and the TravelHealthPro website.
Medical treatment
There are a number of hospitals in Addis Ababa but only private hospitals offer a reasonable standard of basic care for minor health problems. Dentistry options are especially lacking. Ambulance services are also limited. Outside the capital medical facilities remain extremely poor. You should carry a comprehensive medical pack when travelling out of Addis Ababa. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad, evacuation by air ambulance and repatriation. You should contact your insurance / medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
Health risks
UK health authorities have classified Ethiopia as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For more information and advice, visit the National Travel Health Network and Centre.
Malaria is common in areas of the country below 2,000 metres above sea level. Addis Ababa sits at 2,400 metres but a number of sites popular with tourists are below 2,000.
Bilharzia is present in the vast majority of lakes in Ethiopia - you should check before swimming.
An outbreak of Chikungunya fever has been reported in Dire Dewa by the Ethiopian Ministry of Health as of September 2019. Travellers to this area should take steps to avoid mosquito bites. For the latest updates and advice, visit the NaTHNaC website.
Water-borne diseases are common. Drink or use only boiled or bottled water and avoid ice in drinks.
