!
Warning
FCDO advises against all travel to parts of Ethiopia.

The traditional Ethiopian calendar is different from the Gregorian calendar that is widely used internationally. New Year is in September and there are 12 months of 30 days followed by a 13th month of 5 days (or 6 in a leap year). The Ethiopian calendar is 7-8 years behind the Gregorian calendar. If dealing with official documents, you can expect the date to be written in the Ethiopian calendar.
Time of day is also counted differently by traditional Ethiopian mechanisms. Daytime hours are counted beginning from what would be 0600 using a globally standard 24-hour clock, and nightime hours from 1800. “2am” on the Ethiopian clock is therefore equivalent to 0800. Most hotels and larger organisations’ documents, including all airline tickets, are expressed using the global clock rather than the traditional Ethiopian clock. But many individuals and smaller organisations continue to use the Ethiopian clock. If you are not sure the time of a meeting or an event check with your host which clock is being used (‘Ethiopian time’ or ‘Western time’).
Ethiopia is a religiously diverse and largely tolerant country. However, many believers are devout in their respective faiths and you should make sure to respect local traditions, customs, laws and religions. Be aware of your actions to ensure that they do not offend, especially during the Islamic holy month of Ramadan or if you intend to visit religious sites of the Ethiopian Orthodox Church. Outside Addis Ababa, particularly in rural areas, women may wish to dress modestly to avoid the possibility of causing offence. Modest dress is a must when visiting religious sites.
Ethiopian Orthodox Christians fast each Wednesday, Friday and in several other periods. In predominantly Orthodox areas, at these times only vegan dishes are likely to be available except in larger hotels and restaurants catering to foreigners.
Same sex acts are illegal in Ethiopia, and carry penalties of between 1 and 15 years’ imprisonment. There have been reports of an increase in authorities cracking down on hotels, bars and restaurants in the capital, Addis Ababa, where same sex activity is alleged to take place. Public sentiment is generally opposed to same sex relationships and some religious leaders, amongst others, have called for violence against the LGBT+ community.
Be aware of local laws and customs, and the risks the LGBT+ community face in Ethiopia. Public shows of affection may result in unwanted attention. See our information and advice page for the LGBT+ community before you travel.
It is illegal to take photos near military zones or of military personnel; near the Presidential Palace in Addis Ababa and where signs clearly prohibit photography.
It is illegal to carry more than 3,000 Ethiopian Birr when entering or leaving Ethiopia. If you are travelling to Djibouti from Ethiopia you may carry up to 10,000 Birr. If you are found to be carrying cash in excess of these amounts it will be seized and you may face a prison sentence.
Visitors must declare on entry or exit any cash in excess of USD$10,000 (or the equivalent in other foreign currency). Residents of Ethiopia must declare any cash in excess of USD$4,000. Travellers leaving Ethiopia with cash in excess of these amounts must present the customs declaration form obtained at the point of entry, or the bank advice note if the currency was purchased locally. These documents are valid for 30 days from the date of issue.
If you are entering Ethiopia via a land border you must declare any cash exceeding USD$500 (or the equivalent in other foreign currency).
You will need an export certificate to take antiques out of the country, otherwise the items are likely to be confiscated and you may face prosecution.
Owning ivory is strictly prohibited. A number of British nationals found with ivory jewellery have had their items confiscated by authorities and fined between 5,000 and 25,000 birr.
Drug offences are treated seriously in Ethiopia. Don’t become involved with drugs of any kind. Khat is a legal drug in Ethiopia but it is an offence to take it out of the country. Bags are regularly searched at Addis Ababa Bole Airport and anyone found to be in possession of Khat is likely to face criminal prosecution.
Banned or restricted items
There are no guidelines covering the use of drones in Ethiopia. They may be confiscated at airports or at the border. Seek and carry written permission from the Ethiopian Government before using drones.
Satellite phones and binoculars cannot be imported to Ethiopia without prior approval. Seek advice from your travel provider on permissions required. Unapproved items may be confiscated by authorities.
