!
Warning
FCDO advises against all travel to parts of Ethiopia.

This section has safety advice for regions of Ethiopia. It only covers regions where FCDO has specific advice.
You should also read FCDO’s overall travel advice and safety and security advice for Ethiopia.
Addis Ababa
Travellers may face increased scrutiny, particularly those of Amhara, Tigrayan or Oromo ethnicity, including at the airport and through direct police operations such as check points and door-to-door checks. There are reports of ethnic Tigrayans being prevented from boarding flights at Bole International Airport.
Comply with the law, including in relation to carrying ID cards, and possession of foreign currency and weapons. Avoid confrontation and follow the instructions of the authorities.
There is petty theft around Bole International Airport, particularly pickpockets and bag snatchers.
Only use buses or taxis from the airport that have been organised by your hotel or travel company, or choose yellow or app-based taxis rather than the blue and white ones.
There has been an increase in reported crime against expats and Ethiopian nationals in these areas of Addis Ababa:
Bole Medhanealem
Bole Atlas
Meskel Square
Yeka Hills
Entoto
Attacks have included knifepoint robberies and the choking unconscious of victims. Do not travel alone in these areas if possible. Be cautious if travelling on foot. Consider using road transport where possible, especially after dark.
International border areas
FCDO advises against all travel within:
20km of the border with Sudan
10km of the border with South Sudan
100km of the Ethiopian border with Somalia and Kenya in Ethiopia’s Somali region, and within 30km of the Ethiopian border with Somalia in Fafan zone, except the border town and crossing at Wajale, and the principal road between Jijiga and Wajale
10km of the border with Kenya, except for principal roads and towns
10km of the border with Eritrea
Tigray region
FCDO advises against all travel to the Tigray region west of the Tekeze river and within 10km of the internal border with Amhara region.
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to the remainder of the Tigray region except the towns and connecting roads of Mekelle:
southward to Maychew
northwards to Adigrat
west and north-westward to Abiy Addi, Adwa and Shire
eastward to Abala on the Tigray-Afar border
In November 2022, the Government of Ethiopia and the Tigray People’s Liberation Front signed a peace agreement to cease hostilities in Tigray. Disarmament and reconstruction measures have begun. The situation in Tigray is still fragile and there may still be isolated armed incidents. There may be restrictions on travel between towns and cities in Tigray, and on travel outside of Tigray.
There is also a risk of unexploded weapons remaining in Tigray region.
Amhara region
FCDO advises against all travel to all of Amhara regional state.
There have been violent protests and clashes between security forces in Amhara since April 2023, resulting in an unknown number of deaths including of 2 NGO workers.
Violence has increased due to conflict between a local militia group (Fano) and the Ethiopian National Defence Force (ENDF). In August 2023, a state of emergency was imposed with fighting taking place across all of Amhara region. Violence could emerge without warning. Travellers are at risk of being caught in crossfire. There have been reports of airstrikes being used in Amhara region.
The Ethiopian government announced a nightly curfew in the cities of Bahir Dar, Debre Markos, Debre Birhan, Lalibela, Gondar and Shewa Robit until 23 August. There is also a ban on 3-wheeled (Bajaj) and motorcycle transport in those cities.
There have been reports of incidents along the Addis Ababa to Bahir Dar (A3) road, including armed men attacking vehicles. Attacks usually take place in the early hours when visibility is poor. Be highly cautious and avoid travelling when visibility is poor. The A3 road can be subject to increased checkpoints and closure by the ENDF.
Some flights across northern Ethiopia could be suspended or cancelled at short notice. Domestic and international land borders may be closed. Mobile networks and internet connections may be disrupted. You should monitor local media for further information and comply with local authority instructions.
There have been sporadic, violent clashes between armed groups in Amhara and in areas bordering Oromia region, including in urban centres. As these are not contained to specific areas, be cautious when travelling throughout Amhara. Situations can escalate quickly.
Political disputes in the districts (‘woredas’) of Tsegede, Mirab Armacho and Tach Armacho have previously turned violent. Clashes have occurred around Chilga Woreda and Central Gondar zone, with reports of fatalities including civilians. While attacks are mostly related to inter-ethnic disputes and foreigners have not been targeted, attacks can occur at any time with significant risk of being caught up in violence. If you’re travelling in the area, monitor local media and follow the advice of local authorities and your tour operator.
There has been an increase in roadblocks across Amhara region.
Afar region
FCDO advises against all travel to areas of Afar region within:
10km of the border with Eritrea
There are irregular armed clashes between ethnic groups in Hanruka, Gela’alo, Gewane, and Adaytu woredas of Afar and the bordering areas of Somali Regional State and Dire Dawa. There are reports of road closures and roadblocks in the area, including on the main Addis Ababa to Djibouti road.
Danakil desert
If you plan to visit the Danakil desert area, be aware of the risk of excessive heat and difficult terrain in some areas, including around the Erta Ale volcano. Facilities are basic, with no running water and limited medical options.
Tourism in the area has been targeted by armed groups in 2007, 2012 and 2017. Only travel to this area with a recognised tour company. When booking, check that your group will be supported by an armed police or military escort.
Gambella region
FCDO advises against all travel to the Gambella region.
Large-scale violence, inter-communal clashes and armed attacks occur regularly. While foreigners have not been targeted, there’s a significant risk of being caught up in violence.
Oromia region
FCDO advises against all travel to these areas of Oromia region:
within 10km of the border with Kenya, except for principal roads and towns
north of (but not including) the A4 road in West Shewa zone
south and west of (but not including) the A3 road in North Shewa zone
West Wollega zone (including the main Addis Ababa to Gambella road), East Wollega zone, Kellem Wollega and Horo Gudru Wollega
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to:
all of East Shewa zone except the road and 10km either side of the road between Addis Ababa and Bishoftu.
the A5 road and 10km either side of the road between Addis Ababa and Welkite.
10km south of the A4 road between Addis Ababa and Cheliya.
West Guji and Guji zones
Increased tensions and armed groups
From 12pm Sunday 28 January 2024, there may be disruption to travel and operation of businesses and services in the Oromia region. The Oromo Youth Liberation Movement have called for market bans (for traders and anyone buying products) and a transportation blockade in Oromia, including on the roads leading to Addis Ababa.
In West and North Shewa zone there have been reports of attacks on vehicles travelling on the A1 road, between Adama and Awash, though not targeting international travellers.
There were reports in October 2023 of air strikes against armed groups in West Shewa. These could take place in a range of locations without notice. You should be extremely cautious when travelling in the West Shewa zone, particularly in rural areas.
There have been repeated and serious instances of violence in West Wollega, East Wollega, Kellem Wollega and Horo Gudru Wollega. This has included clashes between armed groups and security forces, violent crime and roadside attacks.
There are increased tensions and violence between armed groups and the security forces across Oromia region, particularly Shewa, Haraghe and Guji zones. Avoid military, police and security installations. Be extremely cautious and follow advice of local authorities.
Since late 2022, there has been an increase in incidents between armed groups in Oromia. These have mainly been reported in rural areas and areas bordering Amhara region. Incidents are not contained to specific areas. Be cautious when travelling, particularly between urban centres. The situation can escalate quickly.
Some protests have turned violent and resulted in casualties. There has also been severe disruption to road travel including major roads to and from Addis Ababa.
Protests and demonstrations occur periodically in towns across the Oromia region. Towns in the Wollega and Shewa zones, and West Arsi zone, including Ambo, Wolissa, Nekemte and Shashemene, have been particularly affected. Demonstrations have also taken place elsewhere including in the Bale zone to the south-east.
In some instances, international investors have been threatened, although the British Embassy is not aware of foreign tourists having been targeted.
Ethiopian Somali Region
FCDO advises against all travel to within:
100km of the Ethiopian border with Somalia and Kenya in the Afder and Liben zones of Ethiopia’s Somali region
30km of the Ethiopian border with Somalia in Fafan zone, except the border town and crossing at Wajale, and the principal road between Jijiga and Wajale
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to:
the Siti zone
the Nogob (previously Fik)
Jarar (previously Degehabur)
Shabelle (previously Gode)
Korahe and Dollo (previously Warder)
the Fafan zone
areas of Liben and Afder zones more than 100km from the Somalia and Kenya borders
There are irregular armed clashes between ethnic groups in Hanruka, Gela’alo, Gewane, and Adaytu woredas of Afar region and the bordering areas of Somali Regional State and Dire Dawa.
There is local instability, lawlessness, military activity and a general risk of banditry in the Somali Region. Insurgent groups, some affiliated with terrorist organisations, have clashed with government forces. Foreigners have been caught up in the violence or targeted. There have also been attacks on staff working for international non-governmental organisations.
Central, Southern, Sidama and South West regions (formerly SNNPR)
FCDO advises against all travel:
within 10km of the borders with South Sudan and Kenya
Due to recent regional cluster changes, there have been instances of civil unrest as zones increasingly demand their own regional statehood. There has been civil unrest in Gurage zone in the newly formed Central region. A number of incidents have turned violent.
Benishangul-Gumuz region
FCDO advises against all travel to these areas of the Benishangul-Gumuz region:
within 20km of the border with Sudan
the Metekel zone and Maokomo special zone
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to the rest of Benishangul-Gumuz region.
There is risk of armed clashes at near the border with Sudan.
Local tensions have led to frequent and unpredictable violent clashes, including reported abductions and deaths. There have been instances of civil unrest in and around Assosa.
