There are still commercial options to return to the UK from Ethiopia
If you live in the UK and are currently visiting Ethiopia, you are strongly advised to return now by commercial means. Don’t risk getting stranded.
UK special charter flights will only operate for priority countries where commercial flights are not possible. You should not assume that these flights will become available in Ethiopia, because commercial routes are operating. Please do not contact the contracted travel management company if no special charter flight is advertised here.
Flights
Ethiopian Airlines are currently operating seven flights per week from Addis Ababa Bole International Airport to London Heathrow. There may be changes to schedules at short notice. Ethiopian Airlines also continue to operate routes to other European destinations, a limited number of connecting flights to African cities, and domestic flights within Ethiopia. You should contact Ethiopian Airlines or your travel company for the latest availability and booking information.
If you are trying to get back to the UK and need financial help, see the FCO’s guide on financial assistance.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK.
For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Transiting via Ethiopia
If you are planning to travel via Ethiopia to reach the UK, you should be aware that restrictions apply. Transit passengers are those with an onward ticket to another destination, who do not formally enter Ethiopia. Transiting passengers are exempt from the current quarantine restrictions for coronavirus. The maximum transit time is 72 hours.
Passengers transiting for 8 hours or less can remain in the departure lounge of the airport. For transits over 8 hours, you will be taken to a designated transit hotel for the duration of your stay. On arrival in Addis Ababa Bole International Airport, you should report to the transit desk to confirm your hotel details. After health screening and immigration you will then need to present your hotel details and passport to the desk marked “transit shuttle bus” from where you will be taken to the hotel. You will not be able to leave the hotel during your transit. To the extent airline schedules allow, you should therefore minimise the duration of your transit in Addis Ababa.
If you have any further questions, you should contact your airline.
Travelling to the airport
You should arrive at the airport at least two hours before your scheduled departure time. You will need a printed copy of your itinerary, e-ticket or boarding pass in order to be allowed to enter the airport terminal. You should comply with all local restrictions. See Staying during coronavirus.
Land borders
On 23 March the Government of Ethiopia announced the closure of the country’s land borders.
Your journey home
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
If you’re returning home before 8 June, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others. From 8 June there will be new rules for entering the UK.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British Embassy on +251 (0)11 617 0100.
The Embassy cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone.
Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British Embassy on Twitter and Facebook.
If you cannot leave Ethiopia
If you cannot leave Ethiopia at this time, see advice on staying in Ethiopia during coronavirus.
