Crime
Addis Ababa and other major urban areas are comparatively safe compared to many African cities. However, the British Embassy has received increased reports of foreign nationals being targeted by groups of youths or scam artists. Petty theft and mugging is on the rise. There has been a smaller number of more serious incidents, including sexual harassment of women and robberies.
Be vigilant if approached by strangers seeking assistance - criminal gangs are known to use distraction techniques including begging or feigning illness. Take particular care when visiting crowded public places, especially at night. There has been an increase in violent robberies at parks and walking sites in Addis Ababa. If threatened, hand over your valuables without resistance.
Keep belongings on your person while travelling in taxis, and keep valuables like cameras and passports out of sight. Be aware of the risk of pickpocketing, bag and jewellery snatching including from vehicles stopped at traffic lights in Addis Ababa. Keep car doors locked whilst in your vehicle, and when parking leave your car in a well-lit and guarded area. Consider fitting anti-shatter film to all windows on your vehicle.
Large crowds are common on key national and religious dates. These include Ethiopian Christmas on 7 January, Epiphany/’Timket’ in January, Victory of Adawa on 2 March, Ethiopian Patriots’ Victory Day on 5 May, Downfall of the Derg on 28 May, Ethiopian New Year on 11-12 September and The Finding of the True Cross/’Meskel’ in September. Large crowds also gather on Ethiopian (Orthodox) Easter; Eid Al Fitr; Eid Al Arafa and the Birthday of the Prophet Mohammed. Various parts of the country also have local festivals which can lead to large gatherings, often celebrating Saints days.
There have been a small number of cases of arbitrary detention of British nationals in Ethiopia in recent years. There’s a risk that this could reoccur – particularly where tensions are heightened (for example around major events, or in locations that might be deemed sensitive for security reasons). You should carry copies of your passport and the contact details of the British Embassy Addis Ababa at all times. This may help if you’re questioned or detained. However, you should be aware that the Ethiopian authorities will not necessarily notify embassies when foreign nationals are detained. Even if requested, adequate consular access is not always granted.
Health and safety
Health and safety precautions like life jackets in boats or protective railings at historical sites are rarely in place in Ethiopia.
Road travel
Driving standards and vehicle maintenance are often poor and traffic accidents are a regular occurrence in Ethiopia, especially in Addis Ababa and on the Addis Ababa-Djibouti road. In Addis Ababa, it is advised to only use the metered yellow taxis as these generally have higher standards of maintenance than the blue and white taxis.
Under Ethiopian law, drivers involved in car accidents can face severe punishments, including custodial sentences and fines. You should be very careful when travelling by car. If you’re involved in a traffic accident you should remain in your vehicle and call the local police. You should avoid confrontation and await their arrival to resolve the matter.
In the past some localised demonstrations have led to temporary closures of roads or the targeting of public transport. However, not all reports on social media channels of such disruptions are accurate. If you’re unsure, you should contact local authorities or reputable tour operators in the areas you’re travelling to.
If you encounter a roadblock you should follow the advice of local authorities at the road block if they are present. If you encounter an unattended roadblock, turn around and don’t attempt to pass it.
When travelling outside Addis Ababa, you should avoid driving after dark in rural areas: vehicles often have no lights and livestock may be roaming on the roads. There have been instances where buses from one region have been attacked when passing through another. Medical facilities outside the capital are extremely limited so carry a comprehensive medical pack. You should also consider communications – whilst mobile telephone services are increasingly widespread, connectivity cannot be guaranteed, and there have been multiple examples of mobile internet being closed down with no notice. You may wish to consider travelling in a party and leaving details of your travel itinerary with a reliable person.
Local travel
There is a military conflict ongoing in northern Ethiopia. The conflict has potential to escalate and spread quickly and with little warning. A nationwide State of Emergency is in place with restrictions related to the conflict. See Summary and Addis Ababa.
The Ethiopian authorities have introduced new measures in relation to coronavirus. Coronavirus.
There are frequent incidences of civil unrest in Ethiopia, including protests and strikes. Some of these can cause temporary closure of roads or disruption to local business and transport, and in the past some have escalated into serious violence. Internet and mobile networks may be closed or disrupted during civil unrest. These incidents are often limited in duration and localised. Where they occur, we advise reconsidering any travel plans to the specified area and not to travel until the situation has calmed. This travel advice will flag incidents of concern, where British Embassy staff have received specific advice, but as unrest can occur with little or no notice you are also advised to monitor local news and reconsider travel plans to areas where disturbances are reported. If you’re unsure, contact local authorities or reputable tour operators in the areas you’re travelling to.
Addis Ababa
There is a military conflict ongoing in northern Ethiopia. On 2 November, a nationwide State of Emergency was declared, which provides the police with greater powers to arrest and to search property. You should be aware that the police are using these powers where there are security threats or where there is a concern about an individual’s support to banned groups. Those of Tigrayan or Oromo ethnicity may face increased scrutiny, although this power could affect all people, including at the airport and through direct police operations. There are reports that ethnic Tigrayans have been prevented from boarding flights at Bole International Airport. You should comply with the law, including on carrying ID cards, possession of foreign currency and possession of weapons. You should avoid confrontation and follow the instructions of the authorities.
You should be alert to petty theft around Bole Addis Ababa International Airport, particularly pickpockets and bag snatches. When in or around the airport, keep valuables secure and out of sight. Only use buses or taxis from the airport that have been organised by your hotel or travel company, or choose yellow taxis rather than the blue and white ones.
There has been an increase in the level of reported crime against both expats and Ethiopian nationals in the Bole Medhanealem, Bole Atlas, Meskel Square, Yeka Hills and Entoto areas of Addis Ababa. These have included robberies at knife point and the choking unconscious of victims by their attackers. Don’t travel alone in these areas if possible. You should exercise caution if travelling on foot, and consider using road transportation where possible, both during the daytime and especially after dark. If threatened, hand over your valuables without resistance.
Afar Region
The FCDO advises against all travel to Afar Regional State.
There is a military conflict ongoing in northern Ethiopia. The conflict has potential to escalate and spread quickly and with little warning. There are serious tensions between Tigray and Afar Regional States, with a build-up of armed forces in the west of Afar Regional State. You should exercise extreme caution in these areas and remain alert to developments. On 2 November, a nationwide State of Emergency was declared, which provides the police with greater powers to arrest and to search property. Some flights across northern Ethiopia remain suspended. Domestic and international land borders may be closed. Mobile networks and internet connections may be disrupted. You should monitor local media for further information and comply with local authority instructions.
There are ongoing armed clashes between ethnic groups in Hanruka, Gela’alo, Gewane, and Adaytu Woredas of Afar Regional State and the bordering areas of Somali Regional State and Dire Dawa. There are reports of road closures and roadblocks in the area, including on the main Addis Ababa to Djibouti road. If you’re travelling in the area, monitor local media and follow the advice of local authorities and your tour operator. If you encounter a roadblock you should follow the advice of local authorities at the road block if they are present. If you encounter an unattended roadblock, turn around and don’t attempt to pass it.
If you’re planning to visit the Danakil desert area, you should be aware of the risk of excessive heat and the difficult terrain in some areas, notably around the volcano of Erta Ale. Facilities are basic in Danakil; there is no running water and medical options are very limited.
Tourism in the area has previously been targeted by armed groups in 2007, 2012 and 2017. You should only travel to this area with a recognised tour company and when booking check that your group will be supported by an armed police or military escort.
Amhara Region
The FCDO advises against all travel to Amhara Regional State.
There is a military conflict ongoing in northern Ethiopia. The conflict has potential to escalate and spread quickly and with little warning. There are serious tensions between Tigray and Amhara Regional States, with a build-up of armed forces around the Tigray-Amhara border areas, Weldiya and Dessie. You should exercise extreme caution in these areas and remain alert to developments. On 2 November, a nationwide State of Emergency was declared, which provides the police with greater powers to arrest and to search property. Some flights across northern Ethiopia remain suspended. Domestic and international land borders may be closed. Domestic and international land borders may be closed. Mobile networks and internet connections may be disrupted. You should monitor local media for further information and comply with local authority instructions.
The FCDO advises against all travel within 10km of the border with Sudan.
A State of Emergency is in place across the Amhara Region, with an 8pm curfew in place. Government institutions have been instructed to suspend their regular services. Private vehicle owners have been asked to provide their vehicles if needed. Anyone with private and government issued weapons have been asked to join regional security operations or surrender them. Citizens have been asked to take responsibility for local security provision. Security bodies have been instructed to take necessary measures, against individuals or groups that provide an obstacle or are deemed to be infiltrators.
Violent clashes have previously occurred around Chilga Woreda, Central Gondar Zone, with reports of fatalities, including civilians. While attacks are mostly related to inter-ethnic disputes and foreigners have not been targeted, attacks can occur at any time with significant risk of being caught up in violence. If you’re travelling in the area, monitor local media and follow the advice of local authorities and your tour operator.
There has been an increase in roadblocks across Amhara Regional State recently. If you encounter a roadblock you should follow the advice of local authorities at the roadblock if they are present. If you encounter an unattended roadblock, turn around and don’t attempt to pass it.
Gambella Region
The FCDO advises against all travel to the Jore Woreda of the Agnuak Zone and the four Woredas (districts) (Akobo, Wantawo, Jikawo and Lare) of the Nuer Zone. The FCDO advises against all but essential travel to the rest of Gambella Region.
Incidents of large-scale violence, inter-communal clashes and armed attacks occur regularly in the Gambella region. While foreigners have not been targeted, there’s a significant risk of being caught up in violence.
There is an ongoing military conflict in Tigray, Amhara and Afar regions. On 2 November, a nationwide State of Emergency was declared, which provides the police with greater powers to arrest and to search property.
Oromia Region
The FCDO advises against all travel to within 10km of the Kenyan border with the exception of major towns and crossing points.
The FCDO advises against all travel to West Wollega zone, including the main Addis Ababa to Gambella road, and to Nekemte town in East Wollega. There have been repeated and serious instances of violence in these areas including clashes between armed groups and security forces, violent crime and roadside attacks.
The FCDO advise against all but essential travel to Qellem Wollega zone, which has also seen instances of violence, clashes between armed groups and security forces, and violent crime and roadside attacks. There continue to be increased tensions and violence between armed groups and the security forces across Oromia, particularly Shewa, Haraghe and Guji zones. You should avoid military, police and security installations, exercise extreme caution and follow the advice of local authorities.
There is a military conflict ongoing in northern Ethiopia, with some localised clashes in Oromia. You should exercise extreme caution and remain alert to developments. On 2 November, a nationwide State of Emergency was declared, which provides the police with greater powers to arrest and to search property.
There is a threat of kidnapping in western areas of Oromia, particularly West Wollega, East Wollega and Qellem Wollega Zones. Recent kidnaps have targeted the mining industry. British Nationals working in the area should avoid regular patterns of travel or movement, and aim to only travel during daylight hours.
There has been an increase in roadblocks across Oromia Regional State recently. If you encounter a roadblock you should follow the advice of local authorities at the roadblock if they are present. If you encounter an unattended roadblock, turn around and don’t attempt to pass it.
Protests and demonstrations occur periodically in a range of towns across the Oromia region. Towns in the Wollega and Shewa Zones, and West Arsi Zone, including Ambo, Wolissa, Nekemte and Shashemene, have been particularly affected. Demonstrations have also been witnessed elsewhere including in the Bale Zone to the south-east. Some protests have turned violent and resulted in casualties; others caused severe disruption to road travel including major roads to and from Addis Ababa.
In some instances international investors have been threatened, although the British Embassy is not aware of foreign tourists having been targeted. You should familiarise yourself with the advice above about avoiding large gatherings, and should follow the advice of local authorities and your tour operator.
Ethiopian Somali Region
The FCDO advises against all travel to the Nogob (previously Fik), Jarar (previously Degehabur), Shabelle (previously Gode), Korahe and Dollo (previously Warder) Zones of the Somali Region and to within 100km of the Kenyan and Somali borders in the Afder and Liben Zones.
The FCDO advise against all but essential travel to all other areas of the Somali Regional State, with the exception of the main road and railway to Djibouti through Fafan zone.
There is a military conflict ongoing in northern Ethiopia. On 2 November, a nationwide State of Emergency was declared, which provides the police with greater powers to arrest and to search property.
There are ongoing armed clashes between ethnic groups in Hanruka, Gela’alo, Gewane, and Adaytu Woredas of Afar Regional State and the bordering areas of Somali Regional State and Dire Dawa. There are reports of road closures and roadblocks in the area, including on the main Addis Ababa to Djibouti road. If you’re travelling in the area, monitor local media and follow the advice of local authorities and your tour operator. If you encounter a roadblock you should follow the advice of local authorities at the road block if they are present. If you encounter an unattended roadblock, turn around and don’t attempt to pass it.
There is local instability, lawlessness, military activity and a general risk of banditry in the Somali Region. Since the mid-1990s, insurgent groups, some affiliated with terrorist organisations, have clashed with government forces. Foreigners have been caught up in the violence or targeted. There have also been attacks on staff working for international NGOs.
Southern Nations, Nationalities and Peoples Region
The FCDO advises against all travel to within 10km of the borders with South Sudan and Kenya.
There is a military conflict ongoing in northern Ethiopia. On 2 November, a nationwide State of Emergency was declared, which provides the police with greater powers to arrest and to search property.
Tensions are raised in western parts of the Southern Nations, Nationalities and Peoples Region (SNNPR) following armed clashes in Konso Zone and surrounding areas. The clashes have led to a number of deaths. Although there are no reports of foreign nationals being targeted, you should exercise extreme caution and follow the advice of local authorities.
There have been some instances of civil unrest in towns in the Sidama Zone, including Hawassa, and clashes along stretches of the internal border with the Oromia region, especially in the Gedeo Zone. Whilst such disturbances have been less frequent than in several other areas of Ethiopia, a number have turned violent at short notice. You should familiarise yourself with the advice above about avoiding large gatherings, and should follow the advice of local authorities and your tour operator.
Tigray Region
The FCDO advises against all travel to Tigray Regional State. You should leave Tigray Regional State if it is safe to do so.
There is a military conflict ongoing in northern Ethiopia. You should exercise extreme caution in Tigray, stay indoors and remain alert to developments that would enable you to leave safely. Domestic and international land borders may be closed. Flights have been suspended across Tigray. You should contact your airline before you travel. Some mobile and internet networks have been restored, but large areas remain disconnected. Families should continue to share details with the British Embassy to enable us to locate British nationals in Tigray. If you are in the Tigray region and are able to, you should call: +251 11 617 01 00. If you are calling from the United Kingdom about family or friends you should call 020 7008 5000.
The International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) and Ethiopia Committee of the Red Cross (ECRC) has set up a service to ‘restore family links’ across Tigray. You can contact them by phone +251 (0) 94 312 2207 or 251 (0) 11 552 7110, email add_tracing_service@icrc.org, or online. You should monitor local media for further information.
There may be restrictions on travel between towns and cities in Tigray Regional State.
Benishangul-Gumuz Region
The FCDO advise against all travel to within 10km of the border with Sudan. We advise against all travel to the Pawe, Guba, Dangur, Dibati, Bulen woredas in Metekel zone, and against all but essential travel to the rest of Metekel zone.
Local tensions have led to ongoing violent clashes, including reported abductions and fatalities. Clashes remain frequent and unpredictable.
There is a military conflict ongoing in northern Ethiopia. On 2 November, a nationwide State of Emergency was declared, which provides the police with greater powers to arrest and to search property.
There have been occasional instances of civil unrest in and around Assosa. You should familiarise yourself with the advice above about avoiding large gatherings, and should follow the advice of local authorities and your tour operator.
