This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Ethiopia as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Ethiopia to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Ethiopia
For information on entering Ethiopia, see Entry Requirements
On 8 April the Government of Ethiopia declared a State of Emergency to help limit the spread of coronavirus. The State of Emergency will last for five months and gives the Federal Government and security forces increased power to impose limitations. Measures include:
all meetings of four or more people for religious, government, social or political purposes are prohibited
for gatherings of three or fewer people, individuals will be expected to ensure that they are 2 adult strides apart at all times. Exceptions for funerals and other essential functions to take place will be considered on a case-by-case basis
schools, bars, cinemas, theatres and nightclubs have been closed. Cafes and restaurants must have no more than three people at a table with tables at least two adult strides apart
wearing of face masks is mandatory when visiting ‘service providing’ places such as shops, on public buses, or in public spaces where large numbers of people are found.
everyone must stand at least two strides apart
greetings by handshake are banned
all movements across land borders, except for the flow of cargo and essential goods, are suspended
public transport will reduce passenger loads on vehicles to ensure social distancing is possible
landlords are banned from evicting or increasing rents on private tenants residing in their properties for the duration of the State of Emergency
all commercial and private employers bound by the Labour proclamation will be prohibited from reducing their workforces or prematurely terminating employment contracts
students and teachers are banned from meeting and are only permitted to connect online or by other means that do not contravene social distancing measures
although lawyers will still be able to confer with their clients in correctional facilities with the necessary precautions in place, all other prison visits are prohibited
sporting activities at all levels are prohibited
children’s playgrounds and other such venues will be closed
Any person failing to comply with the measures could face up to three years imprisonment or a fine of between 1,000 and 200,000 Ethiopian Birr (£25 – £5,000). The security forces can enforce these measures where necessary, and in Addis Ababa the requirement for mask-wearing is sometimes being enforced in all open public spaces. You should comply with all such limitations, wear a mask in public, and monitor local media for further updates.
Oromia, Amhara, SNNP, Harari and Tigray regional states have banned or restricted public transport to help limit the spread of coronavirus. Tigray has instituted additional quarantine measures for those travelling from overseas and other parts of Ethiopia and curtailed movement between cities and rural areas in the region. You should follow the advice of the local authorities.
Crime
There have been reports of abusive behaviour towards foreigners in relation to coronavirus, including a small number of cases of assault. See Crime for advice on crime in Ethiopia.
Health
What to do if you have symptoms
Residents and people already in Ethiopia who start to feel symptoms should self-isolate and call the Ethiopian coronavirus helplines on either 8335 or 952. You will be asked some questions and may be taken to an isolation facility at short notice. This will be a clinic or hospital where you will be tested for coronavirus and if needed, you will receive initial treatment.
You cannot change to a different isolation facility. You will need to stay in isolation at the government’s expense until the result of your test is known. This may take several days depending on the volume of tests being processed. If you test positive, you will need to stay until you have recovered and tested negative with follow up tests. Those experiencing more serious symptoms will be provided healthcare at a designated hospital.
Private healthcare facilities
Private healthcare facilities used by the international community with the capability to respond to coronavirus cases exist, but capacity is limited. These facilities are also those most frequently recommended by British travel insurance companies for other illnesses or injuries. You should therefore be aware that the ability to access treatment for other ailments is likely to be limited. You should check with your insurance company which facilities they recommend and phone the healthcare facility before you visit.
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Ethiopia
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Ethiopia, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
