Terrorists are likely to try to carry out attacks in Ethiopia.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out more about the global threat from terrorism.
Attacks could be indiscriminate including in places visited by foreigners. You should be vigilant at all times, especially in crowded areas and public places such as transport hubs including airports, hotels, restaurants, bars and places of worship and during major gatherings like religious or sporting events.
The terrorist group Al-Shabaab, although based in Somalia, poses a threat across the East Africa region. The group continues to link attacks to regional countries’ military presence in Somalia as part of an African Union peacekeeping mission, and continues to threaten all countries who have military forces in Somalia. The Ethiopian authorities have successfully disrupted a number of planned attacks and made a number of arrests.
Following recent political changes in Ethiopia, a number of indigenous opposition groups have renounced violent activities and have been removed from the Ethiopian Government’s list of proscribed terrorist organisations.
There is a heightened threat of terrorist attack globally against UK interests and British nationals, from groups or individuals motivated by the conflict in Iraq and Syria. You should be vigilant at this time.
Kidnap
There is a threat of kidnapping throughout Somalia, including in regions bordering Kenya and Ethiopia, the tri-border area and in Somaliland. Following recent incursions, it is likely there is a heightened risk of future terrorist activity across the Ethiopia-Somalia border, including kidnapping. Both terrorists and criminal groups, including piracy groups, are involved in hostage-taking. A number of Western nationals, including British nationals, have been kidnapped in Somalia and some have been killed. Those engaged in humanitarian aid work, journalism or business sectors are viewed as legitimate targets. If you are kidnapped, the reason for your presence is unlikely to serve as a protection or secure your safe release.
If you are working or travelling in Somalia, including in Somaliland, you should be aware of the risk of kidnapping. You should maintain a high level of vigilance at all times, including when travelling, in crowded public places, camps for displaced people, religious gatherings and places of worship, markets, shopping malls, hotels, bars, restaurants and transport hubs. You should make sure you have carefully considered the threat and have reasonable, proportionate mitigation measures in place.
The long-standing policy of the British government is not to make substantive concessions to hostage-takers. The British government considers that paying ransoms and releasing prisoners builds the capability of terrorist groups and finances their activities. This can, in turn, increase the risk of further hostage taking. The Terrorism Act (2000) makes payments to terrorists illegal.
There is a heightened threat of terrorist attack globally against UK interests and British nationals from groups or individuals motivated by the conflicts in Iraq and Syria.
