!
Warning
FCDO advises against all travel to parts of Ethiopia.
!
Warning
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to parts of Ethiopia.

Areas where FCDO advises against travel
Border areas
FCDO advises against all travel to within: 
20km of the border with Sudan
10km of the border with South Sudan
100km of the Ethiopian border with Somalia and Kenya in Ethiopia’s Somali region, and within 30km of the Ethiopian border with Somalia in Fafan zone, except the border town and crossing at Wajale, and the principal road between Jijiga and Wajale
10km of the border with Kenya, except for principal roads and towns
10km of the border with Eritrea
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to:
areas between 10-15km from the border with Eritrea
Tigray region
FCDO advises against all travel to:
the parts of Tigray region west of the Tekeze river
within 10km of the internal border with Amhara region
Tahtay Adiyabo woreda (district)
Irob woreda (district)
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to:
the parts of Tigray region east of the Tekeze river
Amhara region
FCDO advises against all travel to Amhara region.
Afar region
FCDO advises against all travel to the parts of Afar region within 10km of the border with Eritrea.
Gambela region
FCDO advises against all travel to Gambela region.
Oromia region
FCDO advises against all travel to: 
within 10km of the border with Kenya, except for principal roads and towns
north of (but not including) the A4 road in West Shewa zone
south and west of the A3 road in North Shewa zone, including the A3 road itself in North Shewa
West Wollega zone (including the main Addis Ababa to Gambela road), East Wollega zone, Kellem Wollega and Horo Gudru Wollega
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to:
all of East Shewa zone except the Addis Ababa to Adama Expressway and 10km either side of the expressway between Addis Ababa and Bishoftu and the Addis Ababa to Hawassa Expressway
the A4 road between Addis Ababa and Cheliya, except for the section in the Finfine special zone
all of North Shewa zone (including the section of the A3 road there)
West Guji and Guji zones (except the Hawassa to Mega road)
Somali region
FCDO advises against all travel to within:
30km of the Ethiopia-Somalia border in Fafan zone, except the border town and crossing at Wajale, and the principal road between Jijiga and Wajale
100km of the Ethiopian border with Somalia and Kenya in the rest of the region
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to: 
the Siti zone
the Nogob (previously Fik)
Jarar (previously Degehabur)
Shabelle (previously Gode)
Korahe and Dollo (previously Warder)
areas of Liben and Afder zones more than 100km from the Somalia and Kenya borders
Central, Southern, Sidama and South West regions (formerly SNNPR)
FCDO advises against all travel to within 10km of the borders with South Sudan and Kenya including the shores of Lake Turkana
Benishangul-Gumuz region
FCDO advises against all travel to:
within 20km of the border with Sudan
the Metekel zone
the Maokomo special zone
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to the rest of Benishangul-Gumuz region.
Find out more about why FCDO advises against travel to these regions.
Earthquakes and volcanic activity
On 4 January the Ethiopian authorities began evacuating people from around Mount Dofan in Awash national park, due to increased volcanic activity. Earthquakes have affected the Afar and Amhara regions, and tremors have been felt in the surrounding area, including in Addis Ababa. Please see the Safety and Security pages - Extreme weather and natural disasters - Earthquakes for further advice.
Support from FCDO
Staff at the British Embassy in Addis Ababa cannot offer support in person in areas of Ethiopia where FCDO advises against travel.
If you need urgent help from the UK government, for example if you’ve been arrested or you’re concerned about forced marriage, contact the British Embassy in Addis Ababa.
If you’re in the UK and are concerned about a British national in Ethiopia, call FCDO on 020 7008 5000.
Before you travel
No travel can be guaranteed safe. Read all the advice in this guide. You may also find it helpful to:
see general advice for women travellers
read our guide on disability and travel abroad
see general advice for LGBT+ travellers
read about safety for solo and independent travel
see advice on volunteering and adventure travel abroad
Travel insurance
If you choose to travel, research your destinations and get appropriate travel insurance. Insurance should cover your itinerary, planned activities and expenses in an emergency. 
About FCDO travel advice
FCDO provides advice about risks of travel to help you make informed decisions. Find out more about FCDO travel advice.
Get travel advice updates
Sign up to get email notifications when this travel advice is updated.
Follow FCDO:
travel advice on X
travel advice on Facebook
Travel Aware on Instagram
