Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Taiwan on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International arrivals
When COVID-19 levels in Taiwan were low, every positive case was hospitalised, even asymptomatic cases. Due to a recent spike in domestic cases only serious cases will be hospitalised, while less serious, including asymptomatic cases, will be admitted into an enhanced centralised quarantine centre or hotel with professional medical staff on site. The decision on which category individual cases fall into will be made by the Taiwan Centers for Disease Control (CDC) and on a case by case basis.
You should refer to the Taiwan Centers for Diseases Control website or contact their helpline on 1922 for information on testing facilities.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Taiwan.
Returning to the UK
Travelling from and returning to the UK
Check what you must do to travel abroad and return to England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
If you plan to pass through another country to return to the UK, check the travel advice for the country you’re transiting.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Pre-Departure COVID-19 PCR Testing
Any individual who receives a positive COVID-19 PCR test will not be permitted to board an aircraft to depart Taiwan. Instead, you will be required by law to complete a mandatory quarantine: the length of which will depend on the seriousness of the case. Individuals with mild or no symptoms will be admitted into an enhanced centralised quarantine centre or hotel for this period. It may also be possible to quarantine at your residential property providing this meets the quarantine requirements. Any individual with moderate or more severe symptoms may be hospitalised. This applies to all nationalities and age groups and is irrespective of the purpose of their intended travel. The decision regarding these arrangements will be made by the Taiwan Centers for Disease Control (CDC) and on a case by case basis.
Any individual who receives a positive COVID-19 PCR test will be contacted by their local health bureau who will advise on their mandatory quarantine arrangements. Visit the Taiwan Centers for Disease Control website or contact their helpline on 1922 for further information.
Further information regarding quarantine requirements at your residential property can be found in the Healthcare in Taiwan section.
For passengers travelling with children, you should check with your airline before you travel regarding the COVID-19 test requirements.
Any individuals who breach Taiwan’s epidemic prevention measures may face a fine of up to NTD $1,000,000.
Public spaces and services
Taiwan’s Central Epidemic Command Center (CECC) has been updating its guidance on epidemic prevention measures on a continual basis. In line with the CECC’s general guidelines, the Taiwanese authorities have advised that further localised epidemic prevention measures may be introduced in certain cities or counties depending on the COVID-19 situation in each location.
For the month of June, the following measures are now in place:
Facemasks should be worn at all times when outdoors. Exceptions are permitted when exercising, consuming food and beverages and when in certain open spaces e.g. forests, mountains and beaches
Social distancing must be maintained in public areas
Restaurants will permitted to offer dine-in services provided they adhere to Ministry of Health and Welfare regulations
Enhanced epidemic measures will be introduced for certain leisure and entertainment venues
Members of the public are encourage to download and use the Taiwan Social Distancing App on their smart phone devices
From 21 January you must present your COVID-19 vaccination record to enter certain entertainment venues, including singing and dancing venues, discos, nightclubs, clubs, hostess bars, pubs, and beauty parlours (tourist parlours and audio-video parlours).
Venues will accept the paper-based “Yellow Card,” vaccination record on the Taiwanese National Health Insurance app, and the Digital COVID-19 Certificate introduced in January 2022. If you’ve been vaccinated in Taiwan you can download this Digital COVID-19 certificate from the Ministry for Health and Welfare’s website.
You should refer to the Taiwan’s Centers for Diseases Control website or contact their helpline on 1922 for further information on the epidemic prevention measures in your area.
Those who breach Taiwan’s epidemic prevention measures may face a fine of up to NTD $1,000,000.
Please refer to the ‘Entry Requirements’ section for further information regarding transport requirements for all passengers arriving in Taiwan from overseas.
Travel in Taiwan
Taxis and public transport systems are operating normally in Taiwan. The wearing of face masks is mandatory on all public transport. If you use public transport and are not wearing a face mask, you may be fined up to NT$15,000.
You should refer to the Taiwan’s Centres for Diseases Control website or contact their helpline on 1922 for further information on the epidemic prevention measures in your area.
Accommodation
All passengers arriving from the UK will be required to complete a mandatory quarantine in Taiwan. See Entry requirements for more information.
For a list of designated quarantine hotels in Taipei, please visit Taipei City Government’s FAQ page. If you are planning to stay in a hotel outside of Taipei, you may need to contact the local authority in that area prior to booking or making final arrangements. For more information and contact details, please visit the Taiwan Tourism Bureau’s ‘Taiwan Stay’ website.
Healthcare in Taiwan
If you are in Taiwan and believe you may have been exposed to or may have contracted coronavirus, your first point of contact should be the Taiwan Centers for Disease Control (CDC) helpline which is 1922. If you are unable to speak to anyone at the CDC you can telephone the British Office, Taipei for support.
Quarantine requirements for domestic COVID-19 cases
The Central Epidemic Command Centre (CECC) has announced new measures for home care management for individuals who have contracted COVID-19 domestically in Taiwan. Individuals who present asymptomatic or mild COVID-19 symptoms and meet the required criteria will now be permitted to undergo their mandatory quarantine at their residential address. Individuals with moderate or severe symptoms will be admitted directly to an enhanced centralised quarantine centre or hospital for treatment. The length of your quarantine period will depend on the seriousness of your COVID-19 infection.
You will be required to undergo an initial COVID-19 PCR test which the local authorities will arrange for you. No further COVID-19 tests will be required during this period unless you have been instructed separately by the local authorities. The cost of this COVID-19 PCR test and any further COVID-19 tests will be covered by the Taiwanese authorities.
You can end your quarantine after 7 days providing that your health condition has improved. If you are still presenting symptoms after 7 days, you are required by law to contact your local health department or the Taiwan Centers for Disease Control to report this. A decision will then be made on a case by case basis whether further tests or quarantine is required.
If you choose to quarantine at your residential address, closely monitor your symptoms throughout your quarantine period and contact 119 or your local health department if you need medical assistance.
You should refer to the Taiwan Centers for Disease Control (CDC) or contact their helpline on 1922 for further information.
Contact tracing requirements in Taiwan
The Central Epidemic Command Centre (CECC) has announced the launch of a new self-reporting contact tracing system for members of the public who have contracted COVID-19 locally in Taiwan.
Any individual who receives a positive COVID-19 PCR test will receive a text message from the local authorities which advises on their positive test result and a link to the new self-reporting portal. You will then be required to report your condition, recent contact history and whether you require any medical assistance by logging on to the online system and following the instructions provided. Once completed, you will then receive instructions from the system advising on your quarantine and any further testing requirements.
You should refer to the Taiwan Centers for Disease Control (CDC) or contact their helpline on 1922 for further information.
Purchasing COVID-19 rapid test kits in Taiwan
The Taiwanese authorities have announced a name-based distribution system for purchasing home based rapid COVID-19 test kits in Taiwan. Individuals will be required to present their National Health Insurance card or their Alien Resident Card at a designated NHI-contracted pharmacy or their district public health centre in order to purchase these test kits.
There are currently designated days in which you are able to purchase these test kits. Individuals whose Alien Resident Card ID numbers end with an odd number can purchase test kits on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays, and those whose ID numbers end with an even number can purchase them on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays. There are currently no purchase restrictions on Sundays.
You should refer to the National Health Insurance Administration or the Taiwan Centers for Disease Control (CDC) for further information on purchasing home based rapid COVID-19 test kits in your area.
For contact details for English speaking doctors, visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Taiwan.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Taiwan
Wherever possible British nationals should aim to be vaccinated in the country/territory where they live. We will update this page when the Taiwanese authorities announce new information on their vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Taiwan vaccination programme started in March 2021 and is using the AstraZeneca, Pfizer-BioNTech, Moderna and Medigen vaccines. British nationals resident in Taiwan are eligible for vaccination.
The Taiwanese authorities have released an online reservation system for booking a COVID-19 vaccination appointment in Taiwan. Foreign nationals who hold an Alien Resident Card (ARC) and National Health Insurance (NHI) card will be required to complete an online form and provide their contact information to register. Foreign nationals who do not hold a National Health Insurance card will be required to provide their ARC UI number and passport number in order to register. The local health department in the applicant’s area will contact the individual once an appointment has been scheduled. Vaccine priority groups and other criteria will apply.
The Taiwanese authorities have announced that from 7 December 2021, foreign nationals in Taiwan who have overstayed their visa can now apply to receive a COVID-19 vaccine in Taiwan. The Central Epidemic Command Centre (CECC) has confirmed that there will be no repercussions or penalties to foreign nationals in this category that choose to receive a COVID-19 vaccine.
Individuals who have received two doses of a COVID-19 vaccine will be eligible to receive a third dose of a COVID-19 vaccine 12 weeks after the date they received their second dose. Vaccine priority groups and other criteria will apply.
The Taiwan Ministry of Labour has prepared an English guide on how to book a COVID-19 vaccination through the official vaccination reservation platform.
In light of the increase of locally transmitted COVID-19 cases in Taiwan, the local authorities have announced that reservations for self-paid coronavirus vaccinations for overseas travel purposes, have been suspended until further notice.
COVID-19 vaccinations for children
The Central Epidemic and Command Centre (CECC) has announced that from 2 May 2022, children aged between 5 to 11 years old will now be able to receive a COVID-19 vaccine in Taiwan.
You can find out more information regarding COVID-19 vaccinations for children on the NHS website and our online COVID-19 vaccination resources page on gov.uk.
Visit the Taiwan Centers for Disease Control website for further information on the vaccine roll-out in Taiwan.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in Taiwan, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
If you need urgent consular assistance, see Consular assistance
Monitor the Taiwan Centers for Disease Control website for measures that Taiwan is taking to combat coronavirus.
