This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Taiwan set and enforce entry rules. For further information contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to. You should also consider checking with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Entry rules in response to coronavirus (COVID-19)
Travel ban on foreign nationals
The authorities have announced a temporary ban on foreign nationals entering, or transiting, Taiwan, with the exception of residents, foreign spouses of Taiwan passport holders and their children under the age of 20, international students, foreign professors and researchers. All foreign nationals will be required to have obtained the correct entry permissions and a visa before they arrive in Taiwan. Currently there is no set date for when these border measures will be lifted. Exceptions may be made for emergency or humanitarian reasons. Contact your local Taipei Representative Office for further information.
Anyone entering Taiwan will be required to follow the quarantine requirements set out below.
Quarantine requirements for passengers arriving in Taiwan before 14 December 2021
From 6 November 2021, all passengers arriving from the UK will no longer need to complete their mandatory 14 day quarantine at a designated quarantine facility. Instead, you choose whether to complete mandatory quarantine at either a quarantine hotel or a designated quarantine facility.
The Taiwanese authorities will not meet the costs of staying in a quarantine centre. The costs of either hotel or quarantine facility accommodation in Taiwan have to be met by the arriving passenger.
You must undergo a COVID-19 PCR test upon arrival at the airport and a second test on the ninth or tenth day of mandatory 14 day quarantine. The local authorities will arrange for the second COVID-19 PCR test to be administered at a local hospital and will provide instructions and transport arrangements.
A further self-administered rapid COVID-19 test will be required between the sixth and seventh day of their self-health management period. You should submit the result of this test to the CECC using the instructions provided. You will need to pay the hospital transportation and registration fees. The local authorities will cover the costs of the two COVID-19 PCR tests and the home-based rapid COVID-19 test.
All passengers arriving in Taiwan will be required to take designated transport to their quarantine location. Public transport and other means of travel are prohibited.
You should refer to the Taiwan Centers for Disease Control (CDC) for further information regarding entry and quarantine requirements in Taiwan. A link to the CDC’s FAQ page can be found on the CDC website.
Quarantine requirements for passengers arriving in Taiwan from 14 December 2021 to 14 February 2022
Passengers arriving in Taiwan between 14 December 2021 and 14 February 2022, will be required to complete one of the following quarantine programmes:
Programme A
14 day mandatory quarantine at either a quarantine hotel or a designated quarantine facility.
You will be required to undergo a COVID-19 PCR test upon arrival at the airport and a second test on the ninth or tenth day of your mandatory 14 day quarantine. The local authorities will arrange for the second COVID-19 PCR test to be administered at a local hospital and will provide instructions and transport arrangements.
A further self-administered rapid COVID-19 test will be required between the sixth and seventh day of your self-health management period. You should submit the result of this test to the Central Epidemic Command Center (CECC) using the instructions provided. You will need to pay the hospital transportation and registration fees. The local authorities will cover the costs of the two COVID-19 PCR tests and the home-based rapid COVID-19 test.
Programme B
10 day mandatory quarantine at either a quarantine hotel or a designated quarantine facility, followed by a 4 day quarantine at your residential property. The total quarantine period is 14 days.
You will be required to undergo a COVID-19 PCR test upon arrival at the airport and a second test on the ninth or tenth day of your mandatory 14 day quarantine. If the results of both these COVID-19 PCR tests are negative, you will be permitted to complete the remainder of your mandatory quarantine at your residential property. You will be required to complete a third COVID-19 PCR test on the 13th day of your mandatory quarantine. The local authorities will arrange for the second and third COVID-19 PCR tests to be administered at a local hospital and will provide instructions and transport arrangements.
You will not be required to complete a further self-administered rapid COVID-19 test during your self-health management period. You will need to pay the hospital transportation and registration fees. The local authorities will cover the costs of the three COVID-19 PCR tests.
Programme C
This programme is only available for passengers who have been fully vaccinated against COVID-19 for at least 2 weeks before arriving in Taiwan.
7 day mandatory quarantine at either a quarantine hotel or a designated quarantine facility, followed by a 7 day quarantine at your residential property. The total quarantine period is 14 days.
You must undergo a COVID-19 PCR test upon arrival at the airport and a second test on the sixth day of your mandatory 14 day quarantine. If the results of both these COVID-19 PCR tests are negative, you will be permitted to complete the remainder of your mandatory quarantine at your residential property. You will be required to complete a third COVID-19 PCR test on the 13th day of your mandatory quarantine. The local authorities will arrange for the second and third COVID-19 PCR test to be administered at a local hospital and will provide instructions and transport arrangements.
A further self-administered rapid COVID-19 test will be required on the tenth day of your mandatory quarantine. You should submit the result of this test to the Central Epidemic Command Center (CECC) using the instructions provided. You will need to pay the hospital transportation and registration fees. The local authorities will cover the costs of the three COVID-19 PCR tests and the home-based rapid COVID-19 test.
Children under the age of 12 would be subject to the same quarantine requirements as their parents or legal guardians.
Passengers who are eligible and choose to complete parts of their quarantine at their residential property rather than a quarantine hotel or a designated quarantine facility will be required to declare that their residence complies with quarantine requirements.
Passengers arriving from a designated “high risk country”, or those who have been in one of these countries in the preceding 14 days, will be required to complete their mandatory 14 day quarantine at a designated quarantine facility. This is due to concern about the Omicron variant.
You should refer to the Taiwan Centers for Disease Control (CDC) or contact their helpline on 1922 for further information.
Screening on arrival
All passengers arriving or transiting in Taiwan are required to present a certificate of a negative COVID-19 RT-PCR test in order to be able to board their flight to Taiwan. Any exemption due to exceptional circumstances will require prior approval before departure. This test needs to have taken place within three working days before the date of departure. Test Certificates of a negative COVID-19 RT-PCR must be issued by a recognised medical institution in the country of departure and include the following information:
the passenger’s full name as per their passport,
the date of birth or passport number of the traveller,
specimen collection date and test report date,
the virus name, testing method and the test result.
Test Certificates are required to be produced in either English or Chinese; however, in situations where the passenger provides a certificate in either French or Spanish, if the certificate is in the official language of the place of departure, and ground personnel of the airline are able to assist with the inspection of the content, the certificate may be accepted.
Any passenger who presents COVID-19 symptoms will be required to complete a COVID-19 test upon arrival.
Anyone found to provide false or incorrect test results, or evade or obstruct the quarantine measures, may face a fine of between NT$10,000 to NT$150,000 and further criminal charges.
Refer to the Taiwan Centers for Disease Control for further information regarding Test Exemptions, Test Certificates and COVID-19 test requirements.
You should not use the NHS testing service to get a test in order to facilitate your travel to another country. You should arrange to take a private test.
Alien Resident Certificate (ARC) and Alien Permanent Resident Certificate (APRC) holders
If you already hold a valid Alien Resident Certificate (ARC) or Alien Permanent Resident Certificate (APRC), you do not require a visa to enter Taiwan. For more information, you should visit the website of the Taiwan Centers for Disease Control (CDC). If you are in Taiwan you can also contact the ‘Information For Foreigners In Taiwan’ helpline on 0800-024-111.
If you are unsure if you are permitted to enter Taiwan, or you have further questions about entry restrictions and conditions, you should contact your local Taipei Representative Office (TRO) or airline before you attempt to travel. Entry procedures are being regularly reviewed, so may change at short notice.
Visa extensions
The Taiwanese authorities announced in March that travellers already in Taiwan who arrived under a visa waiver, visitor visa or landing visa before 21 March 2020, and had not overstayed their entry conditions, would be granted an automatic 30-day extension of their stay. This has now been extended by further 30 day periods. The extension will be applied automatically, no application is required. Your total period of stay, including extensions, cannot exceed 690 days (comprised of 180 days on a visitor visa, plus 17 automatic 30 day extensions). For more information, you should contact the National Immigration Agency (NIA).
If you arrived after 21 March 2020, your maximum stay is determined by your visa. If you wish to stay over 180 days, you may apply to do so if you have a legitimate reason for needing to remain in Taiwan or are unable to leave. Restrictions apply and not all British nationals will be eligible. You cannot apply more than 15 days before the 180 day point. For more information, you should contact the National Immigration Agency (NIA). The British Office is unable to issue letters or endorsements to support any application to remain.
Transiting Taiwan
Due to COVID-19 related border restrictions, foreign nationals are not currently permitted to transit in Taiwan. Rules and procedures may change at short notice. For further information, you should contact your airline.
Regular entry requirements
Visas
These visa rules do not apply at present, please refer to entry rules in response to COVID-19 for the latest information.
You may spend up to 90 days in Taiwan without a visa. You can then extend this by a further 90 days once you have entered Taiwan. If you plan to stay in Taiwan for longer than 180 days you must have a visa before you arrive.
Specific rules exist for naturalised British Citizens born in the People’s Republic of China and holders of British National (Overseas) passports wishing to enter under the visa waiver scheme.
For further information on entry requirements, contact the Taipei Representative Office in London, 50 Grosvenor Gardens, London, SW1W 0EB, telephone: 020 7881 2650 or in Edinburgh, 1 Melville Street, Edinburgh EH3 7PE, telephone: 01312 206886.
Passport validity
Your passport should be valid for a minimum period of six months from the date of entry into Taiwan.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents are accepted for entry, airside transit and exit from Taiwan. If you’re entering Taiwan using an Emergency Travel Document (ETD), you must apply for a visit visa before travelling (unless you’re travelling from mainland China, in which case you can get a visa on arrival).
Customs regulations
You should not enter Taiwan with animal products without prior authorisation as those caught smuggling products may face heavy fines. Due to recent reports of African Swine Fever Virus (ASF) in pork products, particularly from the People’s Republic of China (PRC), local authorities have increased quarantine checks and inspections
