At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country or territory-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country/territory-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist are available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Medication
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries and territories. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines.
If you’re bringing any prescribed medicine into Taiwan, you should bring the prescription issued by your doctor, hospital or clinic that shows the medicine is for your personal use. The amount of medication you bring must be consistent with the amount stated on the prescription. Cannabis oil and cannabis derived medication, even if legally prescribed elsewhere, cannot be brought into Taiwan.
For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the Taipei Representative Office in London.
Coronavirus
There is an ongoing outbreak of coronavirus (COVID-19). The virus originated in Wuhan City, Hubei Province but cases have been confirmed in other parts of China and elsewhere in the region, including Taiwan.
Taiwan has put in place a number of measures to combat coronavirus. The list below covers the main restrictions but is not exhaustive and entry procedures are being regularly reviewed so may change at short notice. If you are travelling to Taiwan and have been in a place where a high number of coronavirus cases have been, or are subsequently reported, you may be affected by entry restrictions or conditions. You should check with your airline before you travel:
Taiwan has designated a number of countries, including the United Kingdom, as being a ‘level 1’ risk area for COVID-19. There are no entry restrictions in place for visitors to Taiwan from the United Kingdom, but you will be requested to practice ‘self-health management’ after you arrive and to notify health officials if you become unwell. The Taiwan Centers for Disease Control (CDC) has produced an English language information sheet to help explain what is meant by ‘self-health management’
All airline passengers entering Taiwan are now required to fill in a health declaration which includes travel history for the preceding 14 days.
Foreign nationals (including British nationals) who have been in China, including Hong Kong and Macao, during the 14-day period before they arrive in Taiwan will not be permitted to enter.
These measures apply to those people who are eligible for visa-free treatment, landing visas, and e-visas, as well as those carrying valid visas.
Anyone transiting or making airside transfer in China, including Hong Kong and Macao, will still be allowed to enter Taiwan, but will be required to home quarantine for 14 days. This may change, so you should check with your airline before you travel.
British nationals living in Taiwan, holding a valid residence certificate, who have visited China in the 14 day period before arriving in Taiwan may still enter, but will be required to home quarantine for a period of 14 days after arrival.
Any foreign national arriving in Taiwan from South Korea and Italy will be required to home quarantine for a period of 14 days after arrival.
You should comply with any additional screening measures put in place by the Taiwanese authorities. Monitor the Taiwan Centers for Disease Control website for measures that Taiwan is taking to combat coronavirus.
If you are in Taiwan and believe, you may have been exposed to or may have contracted coronavirus, your first point of contact should be the Taiwan Centers for Disease Control (CDC) helpline which is 1922. If you are unable to speak to anyone at the CDC you can contact the British Office, Taipei for support.
As a response to coronavirus, a number of countries have placed entry restrictions on those who have travelled in or transited through China. Some countries may include Taiwan within these restrictions. If you’re travelling to or via other countries from Taiwan, check the travel advice for these destinations. If you need further information, contact the local immigration authorities or the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country you’re travelling to.
If you’re returning to the UK from Taiwan, consult the latest advice from the Department of Health and Social Care on actions you should take if you develop symptoms on your return.
Further advice on coronavirus is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
Medical treatment
Taiwan has adequate health and dental facilities to handle routine, emergency and outpatient treatment. Some have English-speaking staff. Hospitals operate on a ’pay as you use’ basis. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 119 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment. Unlike the UK, it is not normal practice for a paramedic to accompany an ambulance.
Health risks
There has been a significant increase in cases of dengue fever. Cases are usually concentrated in the south of Taiwan (including the cities of Kaohsiung and Tainan) and are highest during the summer months. See the Taiwan Centre for Disease Control website for more information. You should take precautions to avoid mosquito bites.
