There remain commercial options to return to the UK from Taiwan.
If you live in the UK and are currently visiting Taiwan, you’re strongly advised to return now by commercial means. Don’t run the risk of getting stranded.
UK special charter flights will only operate for priority countries where commercial flights are not possible. You should not assume that these flights will become available in countries where commercial routes are operating. Please do not contact the contracted travel management company if no flight is advertised here.
Flights
As a result of entry and travel restrictions, a number of flights out of Taiwan have been cancelled, and this may change without notice as the situation progresses.
Direct flights between Taiwan and the UK have now resumed, though the number of available flights is still limited. Indirect flights from Taiwan to the UK are still available although some involve a change of airline at the transit airport.
Flights are subject to change at very short notice, so you should check with your airline or travel provider for the latest information.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK.
For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Travelling to the airport
Taxis and public transport systems are operating normally in Taiwan. From 3 April, the wearing of face masks is mandatory on all public transport. If you use public transport and are not wearing a face mask, you may be fined up to NT$15,000. Be aware that some taxi drivers may refuse to take a passenger who is not wearing a face mask.
Your journey home: re-entering the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK. You:
need to provide your journey and contact details up to 48 hours before you’re due to arrive in the UK
are not allowed to leave the place you’re staying for the first 14 days you’re in the UK except in very limited situations (known as ‘self-isolating’)
See also the list of people who are exempt from the border rules.
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) also provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
If you cannot leave Taiwan at this time
See advice on staying in Taiwan during coronavirus.
Further information
Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British Office on Twitter and Facebook.
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
