Live-fire exercises around Taiwan
Taiwan has announced it is taking precautionary measures in light of the scheduling by China of live-fire military exercises in the waters surrounding Taiwan from 4 August to 8 August 2022. Shipping companies and seafarers sailing to and from Taiwan should follow the advice of the Maritime Port Bureau on avoiding the areas and on alternative shipping routes.
Some airlines have announced cancellations of flights to and from Taiwan. This disruption could continue for several days. You should check with your airline or travel company to determine if the situation could disrupt your travel plans.
If you plan to travel to Taiwan or are currently in Taiwan, you should monitor official announcements and the instructions of the local authorities to ensure you stay informed should the situation change.
Road travel
There are three options for holders of a UK driving licence to drive in Taiwan. You may wish to compare each option to decide which route is more appropriate to your personal needs and circumstances.
The first option is to obtain an International Driving Permit (IDP) in the UK from a UK Post Office. You will not be able to buy an IDP outside the UK, so get one before you travel. Once in Taiwan, you will need to take your passport, IDP and a passport photograph to a local Motor Vehicles Office to get your IDP validated. This option has the shortest and simplest procedure and can be completed on the same day. Your validated IDP will only last up to 12 months, and a new IDP needs to be obtained and validated thereafter to continue driving in Taiwan.
The second option is to exchange your UK driving licence for a Taiwanese licence at your local Motor Vehicles Office using the Licence Exchange Arrangement. Your Taiwan licence will expire 6 years from the date of issue. You will need to provide the relevant supporting documents and, in line with UK legislation, your existing UK licence will be returned to the DVLA by the Taiwanese authorities when you apply. You will be able to drive in the UK with your Taiwan licence as a visitor for up to 12 months each time you enter the UK. If you plan to return to the UK to live, you will be able to exchange your Taiwan licence for your UK licence. Please note that British Office Taipei cannot provide support on individual applications. Visit our Living in Taiwan page for application guidance.
The third option is to take a local driving test to obtain a Taiwan driving licence, while retaining your existing UK licence. This option requires more time commitment, but long-term UK residents in Taiwan may wish to consider this option. Do not drive a vehicle without a valid licence.
The alcohol limit for drivers in Taiwan is lower than in the UK. The current legal limit is 0.15 micrograms of alcohol per 1000 millilitres of breath or 0.03% blood alcohol concentration (BAC). Driving while over the limit can result in heavy fines and imprisonment. Passengers may also be fined.
Roads and vehicles are well-maintained but scooters and motorcycles often weave in and out of traffic. Be alert when crossing roads as vehicles might not stop at pedestrian crossings.
Advance fee frauds
Individuals and companies in the UK (and elsewhere) often receive letters, faxes and e-mails, offering them large sums of money provided they send various ‘advance fees’ to Taiwanese bank accounts. Fraudsters obtain contact details from telephone or commercial directories, so recipients are not being specifically targeted.
The National Crime Agency (NCA) investigates advance fee frauds in the UK. Do not reply to these types of communication. The NCA website contains more information on this type of fraud.
Consular assistance
The UK does not have diplomatic relations with Taiwan. The British Assistance and Services Section of the British Office Taipei can provide certain limited consular assistance. In cases of genuine emergency, the British Office may be able to issue you with an emergency travel document.
