Coronavirus guidance is being updated.
Read the Prime Minister’s statement for the latest information.

This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Taiwan as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Taiwan to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Taiwan
For information on entering Taiwan, see Entry requirements
Visas
The Taiwanese authorities announced in March that travellers already in Taiwan who arrived under a visa waiver, visitor visa or landing visa before 21 March, and who have not overstayed their entry conditions, were to be granted an automatic 30-day extension of their stay. This has now been extended by two further 30 day periods. The extension will be applied automatically, no application is required. Your total period of stay, including extensions, cannot exceed 180 days.
If you entered on visa free entry, you can still apply to extend your stay by a further 90 days in the usual way. You must apply before your visa free entry expires and before any automatic extensions are granted. You should make sure you understand the rules and procedures around extension of stay.
If you wish to stay over 180 days, you may now apply to do so if you have a legitimate reason for needing to remain in Taiwan or are unable to leave. Restrictions apply and not all British nationals will be eligible. You cannot apply more than 15 days before the 180 day point. For more information, you should contact the National Immigration Agency (NIA). The British Office is unable to issue letters or endorsements to support any application to remain.
If you have already overstayed, you can apply to register for the ‘voluntary departure programme’ which runs until the end of June. If you wish to take advantage of this programme, you need to register yourself before leaving Taiwan. You cannot do this at the airport on the day of departure. For more information about the scheme and how to apply, you should contact the National Immigration Agency (NIA).
If you are a resident of Taiwan and need to extend or renew your Alien Resident Certificate (ARC) or Alien Permanent Resident Certificate (APRC), but your British passport is about to expire or has expired, or is otherwise unavailable, you can still apply to extend your ARC if you can show that you have applied for a new passport. For more details about how to do this, contact the National Immigration Agency (NIA) before proceeding. You can also read the regulations regarding alien residence in English. For any information about passport renewals, including processing times, you should contact HM Passport Office (HMPO).
Accommodation
If you are granted permission to enter Taiwan, you may find it difficult to find a hotel that will accept travellers required to self-isolate. You should confirm with your hotel provider that they are able to offer accommodation to someone required to self-isolate for 14 days before you travel.
Health
If you are in Taiwan and believe you may have been exposed to or may have contracted coronavirus, your first point of contact should be the Taiwan Centers for Disease Control (CDC) helpline which is 1922. If you are unable to speak to anyone at the CDC you can telephone the British Office, Taipei for support.
For contact details for English speaking doctors, visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Taiwan.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Taiwan, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, see Consular assistance
Further information
Monitor the Taiwan Centers for Disease Control website for measures that Taiwan is taking to combat coronavirus.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
