Travel is subject to severe entry restrictions
Foreign nationals are now permitted to enter Taiwan, with the exception of tourists and social visitors. Passengers who do not hold residence visas will be required to apply for a special entry permit at their local Taipei Representative Office. All passengers will be required to follow the quarantine requirements set out below.
Starting from 10 April 2021, all passengers arriving directly from the UK, or those who have been in the UK in the previous 14 days, will no longer be required to complete their mandatory 14 day quarantine at a designated quarantine centre in Taiwan. These travellers instead will be permitted to complete their 14 day quarantine at either a designated quarantine hotel, or follow the one person per residence requirement to complete the mandatory quarantine period at their residential property.
All passengers permitted entry into Taiwan before 10 April 2021, who have been in the UK in the previous 14 days, will be required to complete their mandatory 14 day quarantine at a designated quarantine centre.
Foreign nationals entering Taiwan must provide a negative COVID-19 test report completed in the three working days prior to boarding their flight.
Direct passenger flights between the UK and Taiwan are currently suspended. Certain airlines have announced that they will resume direct flights from 26 March 2021 at a reduced capacity.
International airport transits are now permitted. Transiting passengers must arrive in and depart Taiwan within eight hours on flights operated by the same airline.
Travellers from destinations designated as low risk by local authorities may be eligible for a reduced self-isolation period
See Entry requirements for more information before you plan to travel.
Returning to the UK
Taiwan is on the amber list for entering England. Check what you must do to enter England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
If you’re planning travel to Taiwan, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCDO’s guidance on foreign travel insurance.
For information about COVID-19 vaccines, see the Coronavirus page.
The UK does not recognise Taiwan as a state and has no diplomatic relations with Taiwan, so limited consular services are available to British nationals. See Consular assistance
There are over 60,000 visits to Taiwan by British nationals annually. Most visits are trouble-free.
Crime levels are low, but small-scale petty crime does exist. You should maintain at least the same level of vigilance as you would at home, and take sensible precautions. See Crime
There has been a significant increase in cases of dengue fever. See Health
You should not enter Taiwan with animal products without prior authorisation as those caught smuggling products may face heavy fines. See Customs regulations
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Taiwan, attacks can’t be ruled out. See Terrorism
You can contact the emergency services by calling 110 (police) or 119 (ambulance and fire).
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.
