

The UK does not recognise Taiwan as a state and has no diplomatic relations with Taiwan, so limited support is available to British nationals. Please refer to the British Office in Taipei for further information.
Earthquake in the Kamchatka Peninsular Region
An earthquake with a preliminary magnitude of 8.7 has struck the eastern coast of Russia in the Kamchatka Peninsula region. A tsunami threat message has been issued by the Pacific Tsunami Warning Centre.
If you are in the affected areas potentially affected by the earthquake or tsunami you should follow the advice of the local authorities.
Tropical Storm Francisco 
The Central Weather Administration reported on 23 July (Wednesday) that Tropical Storm Francisco is expected to get close to Taiwan on 24 and 25 July (Thursday and Friday). Its current trajectory will see heavy rainfall affecting areas in the eastern and northern parts of Taiwan over Thursday and Friday. Francisco is forecast to weaken slightly on Saturday and Sunday as it moves west towards China. From Saturday 26 July to Tuesday 29 July, low-pressure conditions are likely to cause erratic weather across Taiwan.
Before you travel
No travel can be guaranteed safe. Read all the advice in this guide. You may also find it helpful to: 
see general advice for women travellers
read our guide on disability and travel abroad
see general advice for LGBT+ travellers
read about safety for solo and independent travel
see advice on volunteering and adventure travel abroad
Travel insurance
If you choose to travel, research your destinations and get appropriate travel insurance. Insurance should cover your itinerary, planned activities and expenses in an emergency.
About FCDO travel advice
The Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) provides advice about risks of travel to help British nationals make informed decisions. Find out more about FCDO travel advice.
Get travel advice updates
Sign up to get email notifications when this travel advice is updated.
Follow FCDO:   
travel advice on X
travel advice on Facebook
Travel Aware on Instagram
