Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Georgia on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
There are commercial flights to and from Georgia but no direct flights from the UK currently. Land and sea borders re-opened on 1 June. The cross-border train service between Yerevan and Batumi re-opened on 15 June but the Georgia - Azerbaijan train service is not operating currently.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Georgia.
Returning to the UK
Georgia is on the red list for entering England. From 4am on Monday 11 October, Georgia will no longer be on the red list for entering England. Check what you must do to travel abroad and return to England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Georgia
Inter-city and municipal public transport and taxis are operating normally. Face masks must be worn in all public transport and taxis.
Accommodation
Most hotels and other rental accommodation are open. Face masks must be worn when entering public spaces inside hotels and rental accommodation.
Public spaces and services
Almost all COVID-19 related restrictions have been lifted.
Shopping centres, museums and gyms are open. Entertainment and sports events are banned. Schools and educational establishments reopen for in-person teaching on 4 October.
Restaurants and bars are open but restaurants (including those in hotels) can only serve customers until 10pm. Food services from 10pm to 5am are take-away/delivery only.
It is mandatory to wear masks in public places indoors (shops, hotels etc) and outdoors. Failing to do so can result in a 20 Lari (approx. £5) fine for an individual or 500 Lari (approx. £112) for a legal entity.
Social distancing requirements remain in place. Large celebratory gatherings such as weddings remain banned.
Systematic COVID-19 testing of staff working in trading, catering and teaching professions is taking place.
You can find full details of the latest restrictions from the Government of Georgia.
Healthcare in Georgia
A number of medical facilities are allocated specifically for coronavirus patients, with further facilities in reserve.
If you think you might have symptoms of coronavirus you should call the Georgian Emergency number 112 or 1505. The Georgian National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) has published a list of laboratories carrying out COVID-19 testing, both quick and PCR tests. The list of facilities can be found here. The list is in Georgian only. You should be prepared to pay up to 200 Lari (approx. £45).
If you test positive in Georgia before returning to the UK, you should self-isolate and follow the instructions of the doctor assigned to your case. You will not be able to leave the country until the self-isolation period has ended.
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Georgia.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Georgia
We will update this page when the Government of Georgia announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Georgian national vaccination programme started in March 2021 and is using the Sinopharm, Sinovac, AstraZeneca and Pfizer-BioNTech vaccines currently. British nationals in Georgia for at least 3 months are eligible for vaccination if they choose to join the programme. If you are a permanent resident in Georgia, you can register for vaccination using your residence ID number on the Ministry of Health portal. If you have been in Georgia 3 months or more on a visit, student or work permit, please telephone the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) hotline 1522 with your details.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in Georgia, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Public service halls and community centres will shortly start issuing COVID vaccination certificates, in addition to those issued by hospitals. These are free of charge. If you need proof of having been vaccinated against COVID in Georgia in order to travel abroad, your vaccination certificate will need to be endorsed by an apostille stamp (legal verification). This chargeable service will be available at public service halls and community centres. You will still need to check the entry regulations of the country you wish to visit to find out if a Georgian COVID certificate is valid for entry.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
You may also wish to consult the English-language pages of the Georgian authorities’ website or media outlet.
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
