At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For more information on travelling with medicines to Georgia, see Entry requirements. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the Georgian Embassy.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Local medical care
The UK does not have a reciprocal healthcare agreement with Georgia.
Medical facilities in Tbilisi are available but can be expensive. Outside Tbilisi, medical facilities are limited.
Coronavirus
There is an ongoing outbreak of coronavirus (COVID-19). The virus originated in China, but cases have been confirmed in other countries, including Georgia.
On 21 March the President of Georgia declared a State of Emergency for one month until 21 April. Gatherings of more than 10 people are banned, religious services have been cancelled, fines of 3,000 GEL for individuals introduced for violation of self-isolation and people are strongly encouraged to limit movement outside their homes. Internal freedom of movement continues but this could change without warning. All shops with the exception of food shops, pharmacies, petrol stations, banks and post offices are now closed. Cafes and restaurants only offer take-out service. Additional restrictions may be imposed if there is further transmission of virus.
From midnight 18 March, for at least a two-week period, foreign citizens will not be allowed to enter the country. The ban will also apply to foreigners with Georgian residence permits. Those already in Georgia will be permitted to leave. All scheduled passenger flights to or from Georgia have now been cancelled for an indefinite period. The only exception will be Georgian Airways (Air Zena) flights arranged in co-ordination with the Georgian Government (for the purpose of repatriation of their nationals). Air Zena may be willing to take departing outward passengers. British Nationals still in Georgia who wish to leave should keep in close contact with their travel provider and follow us on Facebook for updates on possible flights. With effect from 16 March, all Georgian land borders have been closed for the movement of people for at least 10 days, other than for the return of the citizens of each country to return to their country of origin. This does not apply to the movement of goods.
Anyone arriving in Georgia from 20 March will face compulsory 14-day quarantine. You should carry additional supplies of necessary medication in carry-on luggage.
All shops with the exception of food shops, pharmacies, petrol stations, banks and post offices are now closed for an indefinite period. Cafes and restaurants only offer take-out service. Additional restrictions may be imposed if there is further transmission of the virus.
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
You can find more information about cases in Georgia on the TravelHealthPro website. You may also wish to consult the English-language pages of the Georgian authorities’ website.
Other health risks
Venomous snakes (vipers) are fairly common, particularly in early summer. Few medical facilities outside of major towns and cities have anti-venom.
Water quality is variable across Georgia. Bottled water is widely available.
Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 112 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company immediately if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
