Illegal drug use of any kind carries stiff administrative and criminal penalties, including heavy fines and long prison terms. The penalty for smuggling even a very small amount of drugs carries a prison term of between 5 to 25 years and/or heavy fines.
You should carry a copy of your passport at all times and keep the original in a safe place.
Don’t photograph sensitive sites like military bases and power installations. Be aware of cultural sensitivities when photographing churches and other religious sites. Some visitors have been prevented from photographing the Presidential Palace in Tbilisi. Always seek permission if in doubt.
Tbilisi is a cosmopolitan city, but more conservative attitudes exist in rural areas. When travelling outside of the cities be aware of cultural sensitivities around modest dress, particularly when visiting places of worship, and open displays of affection.
LGBT
Homosexuality is legal in Georgia, and the Georgian Parliament has adopted anti-discrimination legislation, but it is still not widely accepted in society. Open displays of affection may result in some discrimination and harassment. There have been some reports of sexuality-motivated harassment and assaults. Discreet annual LGBT events have been protected by police but this has not extended to Pride marches in 2019 or 2021. Anti-LGBT sentiments remain heightened following violent demonstrations in Tbilisi against Pride on 5 to 6 July 2021.
See our information and advice page for the LGBT community before you travel.
Accessibility
Accessibility standards in Georgia are different to those in the UK and EU. Very few public or private facilities are accessible. Most public transport offers no accommodation for persons with disabilities. There are few pavements outside of main cities and where pavements are present they are generally uneven.
Surrogacy
If you’re visiting Georgia for the purpose of commissioning surrogacy arrangements, you should consider the potential risks and challenges involved in pursuing international surrogacy and seek specialist legal advice on Georgian and UK laws prior to making any arrangements. Surrogacy is a complex and lengthy process. The British Embassy doesn’t have authority to be involved in surrogacy arrangements. The FCDO and Home Office have produced guidance to help inform you on the issues you may face when embarking on a surrogacy arrangement. Commissioning a surrogacy won’t automatically mean that the child holds British citizenship.
Make sure you’re fully aware of the facts and are well prepared before starting the process. Research prospective surrogacy clinics and hospitals thoroughly to ensure you’re dealing with a safe and reputable organisation. From 1 September 2020 Georgian law requires you to provide evidence of marriage, civil partnership or cohabitation of at least a year, before a surrogacy contact can be entered into. Additionally, it is currently not possible for couples where one or both partner is a non-Georgian national, to enter into a legal agreement for IVF treatment. The British Embassy can’t recommend specific hospitals or clinics.
If you wish to bring children born via surrogacy from Georgia to the UK you must apply for a full validity British passport, for which a Georgian birth certificate will be needed. You should check the Public Service Hall website and research the requirements which must be met to have a Georgian birth certificate issued and to leave the country with your child. For example, the Georgian authorities recently changed their process for obtaining a birth certificate, strictly enforcing the requirements for a surrogacy contract to be signed before birth. The maximum period of visa-free stay allowed by the Georgian authorities is one year. Extensions of stay are unlikely to be granted.
For further detailed information about visa issues in Georgia, see the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Georgia website.
South Ossetia and Abkhazia
The Government of Georgia does not recognise the unilateral declarations of independence by the breakaway regions of South Ossetia or Abkhazia and, in accordance with international law, continues to claim the right to exercise sovereignty in the two territories. The UK government, along with almost all other states, recognises Georgia’s right to do so.
The Government of Georgia has implemented legislation which requires those trading with Abkhazia and South Ossetia to hold a licence issued by the Georgian government. This includes buying and selling property and most financial transactions. Those who trade without licences may be open to penalties under Georgian civil and criminal law.
The ownership of many properties is disputed across both regions with many thousands of claims to ownership of properties from people displaced following the conflicts after the collapse of the USSR. Purchase of these properties could have serious financial and legal implications, including legal proceedings in the courts of Georgia, as well as attempts to enforce judgements from these courts elsewhere in Europe. A future settlement to these territorial disputes could have consequences for property purchased in the breakaway regions of South Ossetia and Abkhazia, including possible restitution of the property to its original owners.
