!
Warning
FCDO advises against all travel to parts of Georgia.

This section has safety advice for regions of Georgia. It only covers regions where FCDO has specific advice.
You should also read FCDO’s overall travel advice and safety and security advice.
South Ossetia and Abkhazia
For security reasons, FCDO advises against all travel to the breakaway regions of:
South Ossetia
Abkhazia
FCDO also advises against all but essential travel to:
areas immediately next to the administrative boundary lines with South Ossetia
areas immediately next to the administrative boundary lines with Abkhazia
The administrative boundary lines with the breakaway regions of Abkhazia and South Ossetia are generally unmarked and away from roads. Take care not to cross the lines – you could be arrested by the region’s self-declared authorities.
The Georgia and UK governments do not recognise the unilateral declarations of independence by the breakaway regions of South Ossetia and Abkhazia. Following international law, the Georgian government claims the right to exercise sovereignty in these territories. The UK government, along with almost all other states, recognises Georgia’s right to do this.
Consular support is not available in Abkhazia and South Ossetia.
Buying property in South Ossetia and Abkhazia
Ownership of many properties in these regions is disputed. There are thousands of claims to property ownership from people displaced by conflicts following the collapse of the USSR.
Buying these properties could have serious financial and legal implications, including legal proceedings in Georgia’s courts and enforcement of court judgements elsewhere in Europe. If territorial disputes are settled, this could have consequences. For example, property may need to be returned to its original owners (property restitution).
Travel to and from Russia
It is illegal under Georgian law to enter Georgia from Russia through South Ossetia or Abkhazia. If you do this, you could get heavy fines or a prison sentence of up to 4 years. If your passport has entry or exit stamps from the self-declared authorities in these regions, Georgian authorities may see this as illegal entry through an unrecognised border crossing.
If you’re considering travelling to Russia through the land borders with Russia, check FCDO’s Russia travel advice. FCDO advises against all travel to Russia.
Unexploded weapons in border and boundary areas
There is some risk from unexploded weapons:
along the administrative boundary lines with South Ossetia and Abkhazia
near the border with Azerbaijan (Red Bridge area in particular)
Areas where there might be unexploded weapons are not always marked. Go with a local guide or tour group if visiting these areas.
Border with Azerbaijan
The land border with Azerbaijan has been closed since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic.
If you visit the Udabno caves at the Davit Gareja monastery site, take care not to cross the Georgia-Azerbaijan border. It is unmarked in this area and disputed. There are border guides in the area – seek their advice if you’re unsure.
