Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

There are currently extremely limited commercial options available to return to the UK from Georgia.
All Georgian land borders have been closed indefinitely, other than for freight and the return of Georgian citizens. Regular scheduled passenger flights to or from Georgia have now been cancelled until at least 22 May.
Flights, including via a third country
The only exception will be flights organised by the Georgian Government in co-ordination with Georgian Airways (Airzena) for the purpose of repatriation of Georgian nationals. Georgian Airways is willing to take departing outward passengers on a commercial basis.
There are currently no direct Tbilisi-London flights scheduled but the following flights from Tbilisi International airport on Georgian Airways have been listed on the official Ministry of Foreign Affairs facebook account:
9 May: Tbilisi-Berlin
11 May: Tbilisi-Minsk (on Belavia)
18 May: Tbilisi-Minsk (on Belavia)
You will need to check whether you will be able to get an onward connection to the UK from any of these destinations. You should check travel advice for any country that you will transit on the way back to the UK.
You should contact Georgian Airways direct to make a booking. Contact details: Phone: +995 322 485 511 or +995 322 111 220. Office address:
12 Shota Rustaveli Avenue,
Tbilisi
You should be aware that the Georgian Airways on-line booking system may not accept bookings until 24 hours before departure.
The flights to Minsk on 11 and 18 May are operated by Belavia. These flights must be booked directly on their official website: www.belavia.by
You should confirm that onward flights are available as you must hold onward tickets when you arrive in Belarus. You should also check the Travel Advice for Belarus before travelling.
If you live in the UK and are currently visiting Georgia, you’re strongly advised to return now by commercial means. Don’t run the risk of getting stranded.
Travelling to the Airport
Although there is no public transport, you can get to Tbilisi airport by private car or taxi as long as the social distancing rules are observed (no more than three people in a single vehicle, including the driver). If you are not in Tbilisi and need to get to the airport for a flight whilst there are internal travel restrictions in place, you should contact the British Embassy on Facebook.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Arrival in the UK
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Help and Support
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British Embassy Tbilisi on +995 (0) 32 227 4747. The Embassy cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone. Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British Embassy Tbilisi on Twitter and Facebook.
What to do
If you cannot leave Georgia at this time, you should:
Follow the advice of local authorities, including local measures, to help minimise your risk of exposure to coronavirus
Find accommodation that’s suitable for your needs
Keep in regular contact with family and friends at home, so they know you are safe and well
See more information and advice about staying where you are if you cannot return to the UK.
Your journey home
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Further information
The British Embassy Tbilisi is issuing regular updates on Facebook and Twitter with the latest information on flight departure options for British Nationals wishing to leave Georgia.
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
