!
Warning
FCDO advises against all travel to parts of Georgia.

This guide also has safety advice for regions of Georgia.
Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Georgia
Terrorist attacks in Georgia cannot be ruled out. Attacks could happen anywhere and affect western interests and places visited by foreigners, such as tourist sites and cultural events.
Political situation
23 September marked the 300th consecutive day of political demonstrations, some leading to violent confrontation between police and protesters. In Tbilisi these are mainly on Rustaveli Avenue, Chavchavadze Avenue and Heroes’ Square and in other nearby areas, but they can begin or end at different locations across the city, disrupting traffic. Demonstrations are taking place in other cities and towns. Demonstrations generally begin in the evening and some rallies extend into the night. 
Municipal elections are scheduled to take place in Georgia on 4 October 2025. During the campaign period, and on or after election day, there is a heightened risk of demonstrations and political rallies.
Tensions can escalate without warning. You should:
check local media
avoid large gatherings and demonstrations
follow the advice of local authorities
If you participate or engage in political demonstrations, you may face additional questioning on exit or be refused re-entry to Georgia. 
If you have unpaid fines, you may be refused exit until paid.
Crime
Crime levels are low. You should:
take sensible precautious to avoid pick-pocketing, particularly in crowded places
not leave valuables unattended
stay aware of your surroundings
always keep your mobile phone charged and with you
Georgian law protects everyone’s human rights and equality, but ethnic minorities and LGBT+ people may face discrimination. Harassment and assault based on race does take place. Those perceived as being part of or supporting the LGBT+ community may face harassment and assault.
If someone attempts to assault you or you feel threatened, call the emergency number 112 and ask for the police.
Drink spiking
There have been reports of drink spiking in Georgia. Be wary of strangers approaching you to take you to a restaurant or nightclub. If strangers offer you food and drink these items may contain drugs that could put you at risk. Buy your own drinks and always keep sight of them to avoid them being spiked.
For more information about spiking, read Travel Aware’s information on Spiking and methanol poisoning.
Laws and cultural differences
Personal ID
You are not legally required to always carry ID, but if the police or a service provider (hotel, bank etc) ask you for ID you are expected to show your passport.
Dress codes and behaviour in public
Tbilisi is a cosmopolitan city. There can be more conservative attitudes in rural areas. When travelling outside cities, be aware of cultural sensitivities around modest dress (particularly in places of worship) and showing affection in public.
Money
Prices may be quoted in US dollars and euros, but goods and services must be paid for in local currency (lari).
Travellers’ cheques are rarely accepted. Outside major towns, you may not find ATMs or be able to use credit and debit cards. Take enough cash in lari if travelling to rural or remote areas.
Illegal drugs
Illegal drugs, including cannabis, carry severe penalties. You should expect a long jail sentence of 5 to 25 years and heavy fines for possessing, using, or smuggling of illegal drugs, including when transiting through the airport.
Airports in Georgia have excellent technology and security for detecting illegal items. This is also used to scan the baggage of transiting passengers.
Using cameras
Do not photograph sensitive sites like military bases and power installations.
Be aware of cultural sensitivities when photographing churches and other religious sites.
Using Drones
You must register any drone with a video or audio recording system at the Georgian Civil Aviation Agency before it can be used in a public place. To register you need your passport and a valid email address. Foreign nationals cannot register drones online, so you will need to do this in person at the Civil Aviation Agency office.
You must get a special licence from the Civil Aviation Authority for any drone that weighs more than 250g but less than 25kg, even if it does not have a video or audio system.
LGBT+ travellers
Same-sex sexual activity is legal in Georgia, and there are anti-discrimination laws, but same-sex relationships are still not widely accepted.
Showing affection in public may result in discrimination or harassment. Homophobic harassment and assault take place.
Pride marches in 2019 and 2021 were cancelled because the police did not guarantee security. In 2023, a Pride event was cancelled after a violent protest.
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Surrogacy
The Georgian Parliament is expected to adopt a law banning surrogacy for foreign couples soon. Keep up to date and get emails when we update Georgia travel advice.
If you’re visiting Georgia to arrange an international surrogacy, consider the risks and challenges involved. Surrogacy is a complex, lengthy process. You should:
make sure you’re aware of the facts and well-prepared before starting the process
get specialist legal advice on Georgian and UK laws before making any arrangements
read FCDO and Home Office guidance on surrogacy overseas
research clinics and hospitals thoroughly to make sure they are safe and reputable
The British Embassy cannot get involved in surrogacy arrangements or recommend hospitals or clinics.
Commissioning a surrogacy will not automatically mean that the child holds British citizenship. To bring your child born through surrogacy from Georgia to the UK, you must apply for a full British passport. You need a Georgian birth certificate for this. Check the Public Service Hall and Service Development Agency websites and research the rules for leaving the country with children (some legal details are in Georgian only). You can stay visa-free in Georgia for a continuous period of up to one year. The Georgian Ministry of Foreign Affairs has more information.
Trade with South Ossetia and Abkhazia
Anyone trading with Abkhazia and South Ossetia must have a licence issued by the Georgia government. This includes buying and selling property and most financial transactions. Anyone trading without a licence may face penalties under Georgian civil and criminal law.
Outdoor activities and adventure tourism
Make sure your travel insurance covers your activities.
If you get into trouble during hiking, skiing, adventure travel or extreme sports, the emergency response may be limited.
Off-piste skiing is very dangerous. It can be difficult to get accurate information on mountain conditions, including avalanche risks. Read preparing for winter sports abroad.
If you’re doing extreme sports, consider going with specialist guides. Many insurance policies will not cover damage to rental equipment or skiing off-piste without a guide.
Be aware that safety standards in Georgia may not be as high as those in the UK. For example, several people were injured when a ski lift at Gudauri malfunctioned in 2018 and a tourist helicopter crashed near Stepantsminda (Kazbegi) in 2019.
If you plan to hike close to the administrative boundary lines, consider hiring a professional guide.
Transport risks
Take usual precautions after dark in unfamiliar areas.
Street lighting away from main roads can be poor and pavements uneven. There may be occasional short power cuts – consider carrying a torch.
Taxis
Taxi provision and safety has improved significantly. To stay safe using taxis:
do not flag taxis in the street
try to pre-book taxis through an app
check the taxi has working seatbelts
Road travel
If you’re planning to drive in Georgia, see information on driving abroad and check the rules of the road in the RAC’s Georgia guide.
You can drive in Georgia with a UK driving licence for up to one year. If you’re hiring a car, check with the car hire company before you travel whether they will accept the UK licence or whether you will need a 1968 international driving permit (IDP). You cannot buy an IDP outside the UK, so get one before you travel.
Drink driving punishments can be severe. Georgia has a lower blood alcohol content limit than the UK, so avoid alcohol if driving.
Driving conditions
Take care when driving, especially at night. Be aware that:
roads outside city centres are often badly lit and poor quality
stray livestock can be a hazard
road markings and the right of way can be confusing
many cars are poorly maintained
driving can be erratic
heavy rain, flooding and snow at higher altitudes can affect roads and bridges making travel difficult or impossible (particularly in remote areas)
landslides are common
If you’re travelling outside Tbilisi, particularly in remote areas, make sure your vehicle is suitable for off-road driving and check weather conditions locally.
Rail travel
Take usual precautions with your personal safety and belongings. Compartments on sleeper trains usually have locks.
There is currently no train service between Azerbaijan and Georgia.
Extreme weather and natural disasters
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards.
Earthquakes
There are frequent small earthquakes in Georgia. The most recent significant earthquake took place in 2022 – a 6.2 magnitude earthquake struck 104km south-west of Tbilisi.  
The US Federal Emergency Management Agency website has advice about what to do before, during and after an earthquake.
Wildfires
Lightning and wildfires are a risk in summer, particularly in the mountains.
