This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Georgia as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Georgia to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Georgia
For information on entering Georgia, see Entry Requirements
A State of Emergency is in place until 22 May. From 18 May the ban on gatherings of more than 3 people will be extended to no more than 10 people. The limit on only 3 people in cars, with passengers restricted to the rear seats, remains in place. Fines of 3,000 GEL for individuals and 15,000 for legal entities for violation of restrictions are in place. Those over 70 should only leave home to go the nearest grocery, pharmacy or medical centre. There is a nationwide curfew from 21.00-06.00.
The Government has announced a six-stage plan to loosen restrictions. Progress between each stage is expected to take two weeks and depends on epidemiological conditions.
All public transport has been suspended until further notice. In areas where there is an unexplained case of coronavirus, lockdown measures may be introduced without warning. Most shops, with the exception of clothes shops, are now open. Beauty parlours and hairdressers re-open on 18 May. Cafes and restaurants continue to only offer take-out service.
You must wear a facemask in enclosed spaces such as shops.
Health
A number of medical facilities have already been prepared specifically for coronavirus patients, with further facilities in reserve. If you think you might have the symptoms of coronavirus you should call the Georgian Emergency number 112. There are also Hotlines for the Health Ministry on 1505 and the Centre for Disease Control on 116 001.
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Georgia.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Georgia, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
You may also wish to consult the English-language pages of the Georgian authorities’ website or media outlet.
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
