The Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advise against all travel to the breakaway regions of South Ossetia and Abkhazia, and against all but essential travel to the rest of Georgia due to the ongoing coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic.
The British government does not recognise the unilateral declarations of independence made by the de facto authorities in the breakaway regions of Abkhazia and South Ossetia. Consular support is not available in parts of Georgia where the FCO advise against all travel. See Local travel
There are coronavirus cases in Georgia and the Georgian Government has introduced a number of measures to limit the spread of the virus. See Coronavirus
On 21 March the President of Georgia declared a State of Emergency for one month until 21 April. Gatherings of more than 10 people are banned, religious services have been cancelled, fines introduced for violation of self-isolation and people are strongly encouraged to limit movement outside their homes. Internal freedom of movement continues but this could change without warning. All shops with the exception of food shops, pharmacies, petrol stations, banks and post offices are now closed. Cafes and restaurants only offer take-out service. Additional restrictions may be imposed if there is further transmission of virus.
From midnight 18 March, for at least a two-week period, foreign citizens will not be allowed to enter the country. The ban will also apply to foreigners with Georgian residence permits. Those already in Georgia will be permitted to leave. All scheduled passenger flights to or from Georgia have now been cancelled for an indefinite period. The only exception will be Georgian Airways (Air Zena) flights arranged in co-ordination with the Georgian Government (for the purpose of repatriation of their nationals). Air Zena may be willing to take departing outward passengers. British Nationals still in Georgia who wish to leave should keep in close contact with their travel provider and follow us on Facebook for updates on possible flights.
The Georgian authorities are advising anyone who visited The Drunk Cherry pub in Gudauri ski resort after 4 March to self-isolate for 14 days from the date of their last visit.
The political situation in Georgia is generally calm, but demonstrations and opposition rallies are likely, sometimes at short notice. You should remain vigilant, stay away from any large gatherings and demonstrations and follow the advice of local authorities. See Political situation
Foreign nationals have been detained on arrival in Georgia for possession of medicines that would not normally be problematic in the UK or other countries. See Travelling with medicines
Take out comprehensive travel and medical insurance before you travel to Georgia. You may face difficulties if you cannot provide evidence of valid travel insurance on arrival. See Travel insurance
Take care when driving and if possible avoid driving at night. See Road travel
There is some risk from unexploded ordnance in areas along the Administrative Boundary Lines with South Ossetia and Abkhazia, and near the border with Azerbaijan (Red Bridge area in particular). Areas where unexploded ordnance might be present are not always marked. See Local travel
Terrorist attacks in Georgia can’t be ruled out. See Terrorism
You can contact the emergency services by calling 112.
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.
