!
Warning
FCDO advises against all travel to parts of Georgia.

The Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) provides advice about risks of travel to help British nationals make informed decisions. Find out more about FCDO travel advice.
Areas where FCDO advises against travel
Your travel insurance could be invalidated if you travel against FCDO advice. Consular support may be limited where FCDO advises against travel.
South Ossetia and Abkhazia
For security reasons, FCDO advises against all travel to the breakaway regions of:
South Ossetia
Abkhazia
FCDO also advises against all but essential travel to:
areas immediately next to the administrative boundary lines with South Ossetia
areas immediately next to the administrative boundary lines with Abkhazia
FCDO cannot provide emergency services to British nationals travelling in South Ossetia and Abkhazia, as British government employees are restricted from travelling there.
Find out more about why FCDO advises against travel.
Before you travel 
No travel can be guaranteed safe. Read all the advice in this guide as well as support for British nationals abroad which includes:
advice on preparing for travel abroad and reducing risks
information for women, LGBT+ and disabled travellers
Follow and contact FCDO travel on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram. You can also sign up to get email notifications when this advice is updated.
Travel insurance
If you choose to travel, research your destinations and get appropriate travel insurance. Insurance should cover your itinerary, planned activities and expenses in an emergency.
Georgia vs Scotland European Championship game
Georgia vs Scotland European Championship qualifying game will take place on 16 November, 2023 in Tbilisi. If you are traveling to Georgia for the game, you should:
sign up for Travel Advice email alerts
follow the instructions of local authorities
book accommodation in advance
get tickets from official sources, tickets bought from unofficial channels may not be valid
check the validity of your passport
look after your passport while traveling and keep it in a safe place
British nationals do not require a visa to travel to Georgia. Further information can be found on UEFA webpage  and the Scottish FA.
