Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Guyana on the TravelHealthPro website.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
Scheduled international flights are in place from Cheddi Jagan International Airport at Timehri and the Eugene Correia Airport at Ogle.
Airlines are now operating regular scheduled flights between Guyana, Barbados and the USA.
COVID-19 PCR test results are required for entry and transit through Barbados. For passengers coming from Guyana, these tests cannot be more than four days old. For passengers arriving into Barbados from the UK, tests cannot be more than 72 hours old. You can find details of COVID-19 measures in Barbados on the Barbados Government Information Service website.
The Government of Guyana has announced that all foreign travellers to Guyana must be fully vaccinated and will be required to present their Vaccination Passport/Proof of Vaccination for inspection upon arrival. Fully vaccinated refers to having a complete course/regimen of vaccination at least two weeks prior to travel. Travellers with a mixed vaccination regimen are considered fully vaccinated.
In addition, passengers arriving into Guyana must obtain a negative COVID-19 PCR test taken within seven days prior to their arrival. You should not use the NHS testing service to get a test in order to facilitate your travel to Guyana. You should arrange a private test. If you arrive with a test completed within 72 hours you will be allowed immediate entry into Guyana without restrictions. Passengers with tests within four to seven days prior to arrival in Guyana will be subjected to a second PCR test at the point of entry but will be allowed to self-isolate in their hotel or home until a negative result is obtained. You will not be allowed on the aircraft at the point of departure if your test is more than 7 days old. The test on arrival costs GY$16,000.
If you are planning to transit the USA, you should check USA travel advice for the latest entry requirements. You should also check travel advice for your destination country and any countries on your route.
Border closures continue between Guyana and neighbouring Brazil. The Canawaima Ferry Service between Moleson Creek in Guyana and South Drain, Suriname, resumed in February 2021, however restrictions to non-residents apply. Regular international travellers are not presently permitted to use the service. Air travel between Guyana and Suriname has been impacted by services being stopped at short notice. You are advised to contact your carrier for the latest information. There is no exit/entry available to Venezuela.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Guyana.
Returning to the UK
Check what you must do to travel abroad and return to England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements.
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) also provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Individuals who test positive for the Coronavirus in Guyana before returning to the UK will be expected to self-isolate for 10 days, either in a hotel or private accommodation. Individuals may be contacted by the Ministry of Health if they have tested positive for the virus. The Government of Guyana will not provide assistance for people who may need to leave their hotels. Minors (under 18 years) are unlikely to be treated differently to adults
Moving around in Guyana
For information on entering Guyana, see Entry Requirements
The Chief Medical Officer from the Guyana Ministry of Public Health has urged people to exercise social distancing and carry out measures to reduce the spread of the virus.
Emergency measures have been introduced by the National COVID-19 Task Force. These include:
curfew between 10:30pm and 4am
any member of the public not vaccinated against the COVID-19 virus may only access services available in government departments and agencies in person by appointment
except where provided in the Emergency Measures, every person should remain in the confines of their own home
there are restrictions on all social activities. This includes activities along the sea wall, attending bars, restaurants and gymnasiums
cinemas, betting shops and casinos can reopen at 40% capacity, customers and staff however must show evidence that they are fully vaccinated
where gatherings are allowed it shall not exceed more than 10 people
Restaurants may insists on seeing evidence of full vaccination, along with proof of ID.
Be mindful that breaches of quarantine may result in serious penalties.
Healthcare in Guyana
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Guyana.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Guyana
We will update this page when the Government of Guyana announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Guyana national vaccination programme started in February 2021 and is using the AstraZeneca, Sinopharm and Sputnik V vaccines. The Government of Guyana has stated that British nationals resident in Guyana are eligible for vaccination if they choose to join the programme. The vaccination programme is open to everyone aged over 18 years living in the country. Information on vaccination sites can be found at the Ministry of Health website.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in Guyana, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
