This page has information on travelling to Guyana. Check what you must do to return to the UK.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport from the UK, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Guyana set and enforce entry rules.
All travellers
British nationals do not need visas to visit Guyana. Visitors are generally given 30 days to remain in Guyana, but extensions can usually be obtained from the Ministry of Home Affairs in Georgetown. The Guyanese authorities are very severe on visitors who overstay or abuse the conditions of their stay. Conviction for overstaying will result in one year imprisonment, a fine of up to G$50,000 (Guyana dollars) and deportation - at the deportee’s expense - upon release.
All incoming passengers must take a PCR SARs-CoV-2 or SARS-CoV-2 Antigen test 72 hours before travel. If the Antigen or PCR SARs-CoV-2 test results exceed 72 hours from the date it was taken, travellers are required to have a repeat Antigen or PCR test upon arrival in Guyana. Passengers who are required to be re-tested shall bear the financial cost of doing so at the airport testing facility.
Passengers whose tests were taken within 72 hours upon arrival in Guyana, who are asymptomatic, and who are fully vaccinated against SARS-CoV-2, will be permitted to leave the airport after being granted clearance by Immigration and Customs officials.
If you’re fully vaccinated
If you’re fully vaccinated, you can enter Guyana without needing to quarantine.
The following documents are required before travelling to Guyana:
Proof of full vaccination
Negative SARS-CoV-2 Antigen test not older than 72 hours or a negative SARs-CoV-2 PCR test not older than 72 hours
Approved vaccines include Sinovac, Johnson & Johnson, Pfizer, Moderna and AstraZeneca.
For the purposes of these regulations, a person is only considered to be fully vaccinated two weeks after receiving:
An approved single-dose vaccine
The second dose of an approved two does vaccine or
Any mix-and-match combination of approved vaccines administered at least seventeen days apart
Proof of vaccination status
Guyana will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 recovery and vaccination record. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
You must present proof that you have been fully vaccinated to enter Guyana.
If you’re not fully vaccinated
If you’re not fully vaccinated, you’ll need to present an exemption letter from a doctor stating the reason for not being vaccinated. Additionally you’ll need to show proof of a negative PCR test or an approved negative antigen test taken no more than 72 hours before entering Guyana. See information on getting a test before entry.
If you’ve had COVID-19 in the past year
If you’re not fully vaccinated but have tested positive for COVID-19 in the last year, you’ll need to present an exemption letter from a doctor stating the reason for not been vaccinated. Additionally you’ll need to show proof of a negative PCR test or an approved negative antigen test taken no more than 72hours before entering Guyana.
You can use the UK’s proof of COVID-19 recovery and vaccination record to demonstrate proof of COVID-19 recovery when entering Guyana.
Children and young people
Children aged 17 and under can follow the rules for fully vaccinated/unvaccinated travellers to enter Guyana.
If you’re transiting through Guyana
Guyana is not a transit point for travel.
Exemptions
There are no current exemptions to entry requirements for travel to Guyana.
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
Passport validity
If you are visiting Guyana, your passport should be valid for 6 months from the date you arrive.
Check with your travel provider to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Visas
British nationals do not need visas to visit Guyana. Visitors are generally given 30 days to remain in Guyana, but extensions can usually be obtained from the Ministry of Home Affairs in Georgetown. The Guyanese authorities are very severe on visitors who overstay or abuse the conditions of their stay. Conviction for overstaying will result in one year imprisonment, a fine of up to G$50,000 (Guyana dollars) and deportation - at the deportee’s expense - upon release.
Check entry requirements with the Guyana High Commission in London before you travel.
Borders
There is no exit/entry available to Venezuela. Guidance for travellers coming to Guyana from a COVID-19 affected country is available from the Guyana Ministry of Public Health. The Guyana Ministry of Public Health hotline is +592 624 3067 and +592 227 4986 ext 215.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents are accepted for entry, airside transit and exit from Guyana.
Departure tax
Departure tax is no longer required. All taxes are now included in the ticket.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
Returning to the UK
Check what you must do to return to the UK.
