At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist are available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Coronavirus
There is an ongoing outbreak of Coronavirus (Covid-19) in China, but cases have been confirmed in other countries, including Guyana. The Guyana Ministry of Public Health have introduced a number of measures. These include enhanced screening of people arriving into the country.
Passengers arriving from the following countries may be subject to health screening and 14 day self-isolation: China, Japan, Malaysia, Iran, South Korea, Singapore, Thailand, Italy, USA, French Guiana, Brazil, Panama, St Vincent and the Grenadines, Jamaica and the Dominican Republic.
The restrictions do not presently apply to those coming from the United Kingdom. This however should be monitored closely. Guidance for travellers coming to Guyana from a Covid-19 affected country is available from the Guyana Ministry of Public Health.
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
UK health authorities have classified Guyana as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For information and advice about the risks associated with Zika virus, visit the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
Malaria and dengue fever are common to Guyana and can occur throughout the year. You should take steps to avoid being bitten by mosquitoes.
Medical facilities are very limited, even in Georgetown and non-existent in remote areas. Standards are low. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad, and repatriation. Medical evacuation is recommended for any serious or invasive treatment.
In the 2016 Report on the Global AIDS Epidemic the UNAIDS/WHO Working Group estimated that around 8,500 people in Guyana were living with HIV. You should exercise normal precautions to avoid exposure to HIV/AIDS.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 913 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
