Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

UK special flight
The UK is seeking permission to operate a special flight from Cheddi Jagan International Airport, Georgetown, Guyana, to London for British tourists, short term visitors and their direct dependants to return to the UK.
Registration for this flight has now closed
However, if you have already registered and would like further assistance send an SMS text message containing ONLY your full name to +44 7537 416 124 and someone from the Corporate Travel Management booking team will get in touch to assist you.
Pets are not to be taken on the flight. Baggage will be limited to 2 x 23kg hold luggage and 6kg hand luggage.
Your place on a flight is not confirmed until you receive an email confirmation telling you so.
Tickets will not be on sale at the airport. Do not travel to the airport without a confirmed ticket.
If you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM) via SMS on +44 7537 416 124 to receive a call back. CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Travel to the airport
When travelling to the airport carry printed copies of your flight confirmation and have your passport easily to hand. You should be at the airport by no later than 5pm. The curfew implemented by the Ministerial Task Force prohibiting travel between 6pm and 6am is still in place.
We recommend that you travel to the airport by taxi or by other personal arrangements.
Arrival in the UK
If passengers present symptoms on the plane, cabin crew will follow Public Health England guidance on how to manage the risks to others. The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Future travel options
There are currently extremely limited commercial options available to return to the UK from Guyana.
The Government of Guyana has announced the cancellation of all international flights from Cheddi Jagan International Airport at Timehri and the Eugene Correia Airport at Ogle. The closure started on 17 March 2020 and is scheduled to last for the foreseeable future.
The flight on 7 May will be the only UK-organised special flight from Guyana.
The Governments of Brazil and Suriname have both announced the closure of borders with neighbouring countries, including Guyana. There is no exit/entry available to Venezuela.
We know this is concerning for British people trying to leave Guyana.The UK government is working closely with airlines, the Guyana authorities and other governments to make sure commercial options are available for you to return to the UK as soon as possible. This travel advice will be updated when departure options become available. If you are a British National in Guyana or Suriname and wish to leave, you should contact the British High Commission by email returnfrom.guyana@fco.gov.uk, who will inform you as soon as departure options become available.
Where possible, the British High Commission in Guyana will share relevant information about departure options on Facebook.
If you cannot leave Guyana at this time, you should:
follow the advice of local authorities, including local measures to help minimise your risk of exposure to coronavirus;
find accommodation that’s suitable for your needs;
keep in regular contact with family and friends at home, so they know you are safe and well.
See more information and advice about staying where you are if you cannot return to the UK.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British High Commission on 00592 226 5881.
The High Commission cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone. Where possible, the British High Commission in Guyana will share relevant information about departure options on Facebook.
