This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Guyana as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Guyana to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Guyana
For information on entering Guyana, see Entry Requirements
The Chief Medical Officer from the Guyana Ministry of Public Health has urged people to exercise social distancing and carry out measures to reduce the spread of the virus.
Emergency measures have been introduced by the National COVID-19 Task Force. These include:
curfew between 10:30pm and 4am
except where provided in the Emergency Measures, every person should remain in the confines of their own home
there are restrictions on all social activities. This includes activities along the sea wall, attending bars, restaurants and gymnasiums
where gatherings are allowed it shall not exceed more than 10 people
Be mindful that breaches of quarantine may result in serious penalties. Countries that you visit or transit may levy fines or imprisonment against persons who do not comply with COVID protocols.
Health
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Guyana.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Guyana
Wherever possible British nationals should aim to be vaccinated in the country where they live. As further information is available about the national vaccination programme, this page will be updated. Sign up to get email notifications.
The Government of Guyana is operating an extensive vaccination programme open to everyone aged over 18 years living in the country. Information on vaccination sites can be found at the Ministry of Health website.
The Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) is the UK authority responsible for assessing the safety, quality and efficacy of vaccines. It has authorised the Pfizer/BioNTech, Oxford/AstraZeneca and Moderna vaccines for temporary supply and use in the UK. Find out more about MHRA approval for these vaccines.
British nationals living overseas should seek medical advice from their local healthcare provider in the country where they reside. Information about vaccines used in other national programmes, including regulatory status, should be available from the local authorities. This list of Stringent Regulatory Authorities recognised by the World Health Organisation may also be a useful source of additional information. Find out more information about the COVID-19 vaccines on the World Health Organization COVID-19 vaccines page.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
