The FCDO advises against all but essential travel to:
the whole of Guyana based on the current assessment of COVID-19 risks.
From 15 January, visitors who have been in or transited through Guyana in the previous 10 days cannot enter England. British and Irish nationals, and third country nationals with residence rights in the UK arriving in England from Guyana will be required to quarantine in a hotel. Different rules apply for arrivals into Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland.
From 1 January onwards people with residence rights include: holders of Indefinite Leave to Remain; holders of existing leave to enter or remain (i.e those with biometric Residence permits) or an entry clearance/visa that grants such leave e.g. students, workers, etc (excluding visit visas); holders of EU Settlement Scheme (“EUSS”) leave; those who have rights of entry under the Withdrawal Agreements (including returning residents with a right of residence under the EEA Regulations and EEA frontier workers); family members of EEA nationals with rights under the Withdrawal Agreement.
Coronavirus (COVID-19): stay up to date
Find out how to return to the UK from Guyana
See how to stay safely as a visitor if you cannot return
See coronavirus travel advice for guidance on international travel
Sign up for email alerts for Guyana travel advice
Return travel to the UK is subject to self-isolation requirements
If you’re returning to the UK, you will need to:
provide your journey and contact details
self-isolate for 14 days
If your return journey to the UK transits another country, you should check whether it is subject to a travel ban or any other additional requirements. If so, contact your travel provider.
Check the guidance on entering or returning to the UK.
For information about COVID-19 vaccines, see the Staying during coronavirus page.
Most visits to Guyana are trouble-free.
Crime levels are high. You should take sensible precautions to protect yourself and your belongings.
Political demonstrations sometimes take place. You are advised to be careful when travelling around the country and avoid large crowds.
If possible, avoid travel to and from Georgetown Cheddi Jagan international airport late at night and before dawn. There have been incidents of violence, fatal accidents caused by erratic driving and incidents of violent theft by gangs, who follow cars travelling from the airport and attack their victims when they reach their final destination. Always drive with windows closed and doors locked. See Crime
Road safety is a serious concern in Guyana with many fatal accidents occurring as a result of unsafe driving – especially by drivers of minibuses.
UK health authorities have classified Guyana as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For information and advice about the risks associated with Zika virus, visit the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
Malaria and dengue fever are common in Guyana and can occur throughout the year. You should take steps to avoid being bitten by mosquitoes. See Health
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Guyana, attacks can’t be ruled out. See Terrorism
You can contact the emergency services by calling 911 (police), 913 (ambulance) or 912 (fire).
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.
Take out comprehensive travel and medical insurance before you travel.
