Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Latvia on the TravelHealthPro website.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Latvia.
A curfew is in place from 8pm to 5am. If you arrive or depart from Latvia during this time, you are allowed to make the journey to and from the airport, port or railway station. Prior to your journey you must fill in the self-certifiable form in paper or electronically on your smart device stating your personal and travel details.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements. You should contact local authorities for information on testing facilities. You should check that the test result can be provided in the correct format and language.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Public spaces and services
A lockdown has been introduced until 15 November, taking effect from 21 October. Additional measures have been put in place to limit transmission of COVID-19. See the Latvian government’s COVID-19 website for full details.
The lockdown measures include the following:
A curfew is in place from 8pm to 5am. Exceptions apply in the following circumstances: travelling to or from your place of work; seeking medical treatment; attending a vaccination appointment; visiting a pharmacy; and travelling to or from the airport, port or railway station. On such occasions, a self-certifiable form must be filled in on paper or electronically and presented to the police upon request.
All public and private events and gatherings are forbidden.
Only essential goods stores, such as groceries, pharmacies and opticians, can be open from 6am to 7pm.
All bars and restaurants are closed to the public, but can offer food for take-away. Food delivery is allowed during curfew.
Museums, exhibitions, cinemas and gyms are closed.
Funerals are allowed for up to 20 people outdoors.
No more than two people or one household can share a car.
Only essential services will be provided in person.
It is mandatory for facemasks to be worn indoors, including on public transport, and in crowded outdoor settings such as markets.
Wearing a facemask does not replace social distancing and disinfection requirements. Wearing a facemask is not obligatory for:
children under 7 years of age;
anyone with certain medical conditions, for example, if a person has difficulty wearing a mask due to a movement disorder or if the person has a mental health disorder.
The fine for not wearing a facemask when required is 50 Euros.
Some stores can be visited only by those with COVID-19 certificates. Essential stores such as grocery shops, pharmacies, opticians etc can allow people without a COVID-19 certificate if there are separate queues for vaccinated and unvaccinated visitors.
Latvia will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 recovery and vaccination record. If you are travelling with a printed PDF proof of vaccination status, it must date from 1 November to ensure that the certificate can be scanned successfully, if domestic certification is required. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
Healthcare in Latvia
The latest information and advice from the Latvian authorities is available on the Latvian government’s COVID-19 website.
What to do if your COVID-19 test is positive:
Stay or return to the premises where you will be self-quarantining. Avoid any direct or indirect physical contact with other people.
Call the Latvian National Health Service on 80001234 for a local doctor to be assigned to you. Be aware that not all operators are English speaking, keep trying until you reach one who is.
Wait for a call from your assigned doctor with further instructions. You may be contacted by an epidemiologist to trace back your steps and identify potential contact persons.
If your health deteriorates and you experience severe COVID-19 symptoms, call 113 immediately.
Do not exit self-quarantine until your doctor has allowed it.
Be aware that not all hotels provide self-quarantining facilities. It means you might be required to move to another hotel. If you have already checked out of your hotel, check the Riga City Council Welfare Department website with the list of hotels for self-quarantining. Travellers with COVID-19 infection must self-quarantine at their own expense. For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Many non-essential health services have been temporarily suspended. Some healthcare providers are only providing in-person non-emergency services to people with a COVID-19 certificate. If you have a medical appointment, check with the service provider to confirm whether the appointment can take place as planned.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Latvia
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Latvia
Wherever possible British nationals should aim to be vaccinated in the country where they live. We will update this page when the Government of Latvia announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Latvian national vaccination programme started in January 2021 and is using the AstraZeneca, Pfizer-BioNTech, Janssen (Johnson and Johnson) and Moderna vaccines. The Government of Latvia has stated that British nationals resident in Latvia are eligible for vaccination. Information about the Latvian national COVID-19 vaccination programme is available on the Latvian government’s COVID-19 website.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in Latvia, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
If you receive your COVID-19 vaccination in Latvia, you can get an EU Digital COVID Certificate from the national authorities. The Certificate proves that you have been vaccinated against COVID-19, received a negative test result, or recovered from COVID-19. It will help facilitate your travel within the EU and, in some countries, you can use it to demonstrate your COVID-19 status to businesses and other organisations. For further information visit the European Commission’s EU Digital COVID Certificate page.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
