At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Coronavirus
The Latvian authorities have introduced a number of precautionary measures in response to the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic.
On 12 March the Latvian Government declared a State of Emergency until 14 April and introduced a number of further measures to limit the spread of the virus, including the closure of all educational institutions and restrictions on public events.
On 14 March the Latvian Government announced further measures. This means that:
• British nationals are permitted to exit Latvia at designated land border crossing points, but there is no guarantee of onward travel.
• Nationals of the Republic of Latvia and foreign nationals residing permanently in Latvia are permitted to enter Latvia through designated land border crossing points.
• The international transit of passengers through airports and ports, by bus and rail, is suspended except for the travel of passengers by State aircraft and military transport.
• The movement of passengers and vehicles through border crossing points at airports and ports, on road and railway lines at the external border of the European Union is prohibited. This also applies to border crossing points intended for local border traffic, with the exception of the carriage of goods.
On 17 March the Latvian Government and the Latvian Centre for Disease Prevention and Control introduced yet further measures requiring all travellers to Latvia arriving from anywhere abroad, including the UK, to take special protection measures:
• Self-isolate (quarantine) and carefully monitor their health for 14 days after their arrival in Latvia including by taking their body temperature twice a day (in the morning and evening);
• In case of sudden onset of at least one of the following symptoms – dry cough, fever, shortness of breath – restrict contact with people nearby, but in case not possible, keep distance of at least two metres from them, and call 113 immediately (State Emergency Medical Service);
• If the symptoms are mild, the State Emergency Medical Service will come to your place of residence (e.g., home, hotel, etc.) and collect the samples required for the diagnostic testing. You will not be taken to the hospital and will remain in your residence. In case of positive results, you will get information by phone and contact tracing will commence immediately by epidemiologists of Centre for Diseases prevention and Control. Please follow further recommendations of the local health authority;
• If the symptoms are severe, the State Emergency Medical Service will take you to the hospital and the diagnostic testing will be done while you will be hospitalized.
Keep up to date with information from your tour operator, transport or accommodation provider on the impact on any existing travel plans.
If you need further information about entry requirements, contact the local immigration authorities or the nearest Latvian embassy/consulate. You should also check with your airline or travel company for the latest information.
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
You can find more information about cases in Latvia on the TravelHealthPro website.
Latest information and advice from Latvian authorities is available on the Latvian Centre for Disease Prevention and Control website and the Latvian Ministry of Health website.
Healthcare
The rules on access to healthcare will stay the same until 31 December 2020.
You should get a free European Health Insurance Card (EHIC) before leaving the UK. After 31 December 2020, your UK-issued EHIC might not be valid.
The EHIC entitles you to state provided medical treatment that may become necessary during your trip. Any treatment provided is on the same terms as Latvian nationals. If you don’t have your EHIC with you or you’ve lost it, you can call the Department of Health Overseas Healthcare Team (+44 191 218 1999) to get a Provisional Replacement Certificate.
It is important to take out comprehensive travel insurance that includes cover for emergency medical treatment and associated costs. The existing EHIC arrangements are not an alternative to travel insurance, as some health-related costs, including for medical repatriation, ongoing medical treatment and non-urgent treatment, are not covered. Read more about what your travel insurance should cover.
If you’re living in Latvia, you can also find more information on healthcare for residents in our Living In Latvia guide.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 113. If you are referred to a medical facility for treatment you should contact your insurance/medical assistance company immediately.
