There are currently no direct commercial flights leaving Latvia to return to the UK.
There have been occasional “exceptional commercial” flights operated by Air Baltic, including to destinations where onward travel to the UK is possible. Details of these flights can be found on the Air Baltic website, including booking requirements here.
Before travelling, please check the destination country travel advice to ensure that you meet all entry requirements, that transit is permitted and that onward flight options are available. Travellers are responsible for making their own onward travel arrangements to the UK and should do so before travelling.
On 14 March, the Latvian Government announced a number of measures to limit the spread of the virus. This means that:
British nationals are permitted to exit Latvia at designated land border crossing points, but there is no guarantee of onward travel
the international transit of passengers through airports and ports, by bus and rail, is suspended
the movement of passengers and vehicles through border crossing points at airports and ports, on road and railway lines at the external border of the European Union is prohibited. This also applies to border crossing points intended for local border traffic, with the exception of the carriage of goods
We know this is concerning for British people trying to leave Latvia. The UK government is working closely with airlines, the Latvian authorities and other governments to make sure options are available for you to return to the UK as soon as possible.
Future travel options
The UK government is working closely with airlines, the Latvian authorities and other governments to make sure options are available for you to return to the UK as soon as possible.
This travel advice will be updated when departure options become available.
Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British Embassy on Twitter and Facebook
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK.
For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Your journey home
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
If you’re returning home before 8 June, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others. From 8 June there will be new rules for entering the UK.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British Embassy on 00 371 67774700.
The Embassy cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone. This page will be updated when departure options become available. To get the latest information, sign up for travel advice email alerts.
If you cannot leave Latvia
If you cannot leave Latvia at this time, see advice on staying in Latvia during coronavirus.
See more information and advice about staying where you are if you cannot return to the UK.
