

Terrorism 
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.     
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Latvia
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Latvia, attacks cannot be ruled out.
Belarus border
FCDO currently advises against all travel to Belarus. There is limited access along parts of Latvia’s border with Belarus. The Silene-Urbani road border crossing is currently closed. More border checkpoints may close or implement restrictions at short notice. 
Access to within 2km of the border with Belarus is limited. If you wish to enter the border area, you are required to obtain a special licence issued by the Latvian Border Guard. You should abide by this limitation at all times and follow the instructions of Latvian authorities if you are in this area.
Crime
Protecting yourself and your belongings
Petty crime, particularly bag snatching and pickpocketing, is a greater risk in:
Riga Old Town
Central Market
central train and bus stations
Take extra care in these areas and:
avoid unlit streets and parks at night
stay alert if walking alone and be wary of people who approach you
keep your documents and valuables in hotel safes or somewhere secure
Scams
Some tourists have been charged high prices for drinks or have found fraudulent transactions on their credit and debit cards. You should:
make sure a transaction on a credit or debit card is completed in your presence
be wary of attempts to make you re-enter your PIN
get recommendations for bars and clubs from trustworthy sources
Bank card fraud
Fraudsters can steal your card details without you noticing. Use ATMs inside banks if possible, and check ATMs on the street for signs of tampering. Keep cards in sight when paying in shops and restaurants. Read more about how to avoid bank card fraud.
Drink and food spiking  
There have been instances of drink spiking in Riga and elsewhere in Latvia. Do not leave drinks unattended and be wary of accepting food and drink from strangers in bars, nightclubs and restaurants.  
Theft from vehicles   
Try to use car parks with CCTV. Make sure your vehicle is locked and your belongings are out of sight.
Laws and cultural differences
Personal ID
Always carry a copy of your passport’s photo page.  
Alcohol laws and bans
Drinking alcohol in public, including in parks and in the streets, is illegal. The police could arrest and fine you.
Illegal drugs
Illegal drugs, including cannabis, are strictly prohibited, even in very small quantities. Severe penalties apply for possessing, using, buying, or smuggling illegal drugs, including when transiting through airports. You should expect long jail sentences of up to 10 years and heavy fines. 
Airports in Latvia have excellent technology and security for detecting illegal items. This is also used to scan the baggage of transiting passengers.
Public transport
You can get on-the-spot fines for travelling on public transport without a ticket or with an unvalidated ticket. Validate your ticket with the machine as soon as you board the bus or tram.
LGBT+ travellers
Same-sex sexual activity is legal in Latvia. Same-sex unions were legalised in 2023 and will be able to take place from July 2024.
While there are some LGBT+ friendly venues in larger cities, small towns and rural areas can be less accepting of LGBT+ travellers.
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Transport risks
Road travel
If you are planning to drive in Latvia, see information on driving abroad and check the rules of the road in the RAC’s  Latvia guide. The guide lists driving regulations and other legal requirements you need to be aware of.
You can drive in Latvia with a UK driving licence. If you are living in Latvia, check the driving requirements for residents.
Carry your original vehicle registration documents when travelling to Latvia by car or motorcycle. If you do not have these documents, you will not be allowed to take your vehicle back out of Latvia.
Check if you need a UK sticker to drive your car outside the UK.
Hire car companies often have stricter requirements for their customers, such as a year of driving experience or a higher minimum age. 
Taxi safety    
To reduce the risk of being charged inflated fares:
organise a ride with a major taxi company such as Baltic Taxi or Red Cab
hail or go to a taxi rank to find an official registered vehicle with yellow licence plates
agree the approximate price of the journey before setting off – some visitors have reported meters being adapted to clock up higher rates
Extreme weather
Winter
Be prepared for extremely cold and possibly hazardous weather if you travel to Latvia in the winter – between October and March. Temperatures may drop to -25°C or below. Snowfalls can result in delays and cancellations on public transport and difficult road conditions. 
