The Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) advises against all but essential travel to:
The whole of Latvia based on the current assessment of COVID-19 risks.
From 21 December until 11:59 pm on 1 January, Latvia will not be permitting the operation of passenger carriers to or from the United Kingdom. If you were due to travel to/from Latvia please contact your travel operator. Further updates will be published when they are available. Check our advice on things to consider, and be prepared to stay overseas longer than planned.
If you’re a British national in Latvia and have a pressing need to return to the UK, Air Baltic will be operating an ‘exceptional commercial’ flight from Riga Airport (ETD 3.30pm) to London Gatwick (4.30pm) on Monday 28 December 2020. Tickets may only be booked and paid for by phoning Air Baltic on 90001100 (for calls from Latvia) or +371 6700 6006 (for calls from outside Latvia).
If you are returning to the UK from Latvia on or after 4am you will need to self-isolate on your return (unless you are exempt). Check the latest guidance for England, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales.
The FCDO is not advising those already travelling in Latvia to leave at this time. Travellers should follow the advice of the local authorities on how best to protect themselves and others, including any measures that they bring in to control the virus. You should contact your tour operator or airline if you have any questions about your return journey.
Travel to Latvia is subject to entry restrictions
From 17 September, asymptomatic travellers arriving in Latvia from the UK are required to self-isolate for 10 days
From 12 October, everyone who intends to enter Latvia is required to complete and submit an electronic form no earlier than 48 hours before entering Latvia. Further information is available on the Latvian Government’s COVID-19 website.
See Entry requirements for more information before you plan to travel.
Preparing for your return journey to the UK
If you’re returning to the UK from overseas, you will need to:
provide your journey and contact details before you travel
check if you need to self-isolate on your return
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
If you’re planning travel to Latvia, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCDO’s guidance on foreign travel insurance.
There is a general threat from terrorism. There may be increased security in place over the festive period, including at Christmas markets and other major events that might attract large crowds. You should remain vigilant and follow the advice of the local authorities.
Around 142,000 British nationals visit Latvia each year. Most visits are trouble-free.
The UK has left the European Union. The rules on travel to EU countries will stay the same until 31 December 2020. This page will be updated with country-specific information for travellers to Latvia as things change. Sign up for email alerts and view the latest updates for UK nationals travelling to and living in Europe.
If you are living in or moving to Latvia, read the Living in Latvia guide in addition to this travel advice.
You are required to have health insurance when you enter Latvia. See Health insurance
Terrorist attacks in Latvia can’t be ruled out. See Terrorism
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.
