Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Luxembourg on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Luxembourg.
Returning to the UK
Travelling from and returning to the UK
If you plan to pass through another country to return to the UK, check the travel advice for the country you’re transiting. If you will pass through a red list country, book your hotel quarantine package before travelling to the UK.
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements. You should contact local authorities for information on testing facilities.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Luxembourg
In response to a sharp rise in the number of COVID-19 cases in Luxembourg, additional measures have been put in place to limit the spread of the virus.
Face coverings must be worn on public transport and in all indoor areas open to the public and where the public is circulating.
Breaches of regulations can result in fines of up to €1000.
You must wear a face covering and observe the standard social distancing requirement when travelling through Luxembourg Airport (Findel). Your mask should not be removed during security control. Hand sanitiser is available throughout the terminal where hand washing is unavailable.
Accommodation
Hotel and guesthouse bars and restaurants are now open to the public under the same conditions as all other restaurants, bars and cafes (see below). Face coverings must be worn in public areas, and where the social distancing requirement cannot be met.
Public spaces and services
The government has introduced a voluntary ‘CovidCheck’ system which allows users to demonstrate their health status, including vaccination status and COVID-19 test results. Businesses can also opt in on a voluntary basis, however there is a difference to measures and restrictions for those who choose not to opt in.
Face coverings must be worn in shops, supermarkets, exhibitions, and other places that are open to the public.
Restaurants and bars are open for service both indoors and outdoors.
Restaurants and bars that use the ‘CovidCheck’ system, can operate without having to comply with special sanitary measures, such as the wearing of masks, eating while seated, and maintaining a distance between tables.
Without the ‘CovidCheck’ system, the following measures are in place:
indoors (up to four people) and outdoors (up to ten people), are permitted to sit at each table, unless they are from the same household. Tables need to be 1.5 metres apart, or separated by a barrier.
All customers seated indoors and over the age of six years must:
present a negative PCR test carried out less than 72 hours before access; or
present a negative rapid antigen test carried out less than 24 hours and certified by a health professional, civil servant or public employee designated for this purpose by the Director of Health; or
present a negative antigen self-test performed on site.
Anyone refusing to present a negative test result or take a test will be unable to be seated indoors.
Outdoor spaces and terraces must be open on three sides. Take-away, drive-through and home delivery services remain available. Other restrictions include limiting the additional number of people allowed at gatherings at home or private events to a maximum of ten visitors.
Public gatherings of 11 to 300 people can be held using the ‘CovidCheck’ system. In this case seating arrangements, the wearing of masks and social distancing, are not required. Events of more than 200 people and up to a maximum of 2000 are subject to agreement in advance by the Health Directorate.
Luxembourg will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 recovery and vaccination record and proof of COVID-19 vaccination issued in the Crown Dependencies. However a screenshot or a photo is not sufficient. If you are travelling with a printed PDF proof of vaccination status, it must date from 1 November 2021 to ensure that the certificate can be scanned successfully, if domestic certification is required. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
Cinemas, theatres, nightclubs and cultural events are open.
Shops, hairdressers and beauticians are open. Indoor sports facilities, gyms, swimming pools and aquatic centres are open with strict hygiene restrictions in place.
To find out more about local restrictions, please refer to the Luxembourg government website.
Healthcare in Luxembourg
For contact details for English speaking doctors, visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Luxembourg.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Luxembourg
Wherever possible British nationals should aim to be vaccinated in the country where they live. We will update this page when the Government of Luxembourg announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Luxembourg national vaccination programme started in December 2020 and is using the AstraZeneca, Pfizer-BioNTech, Janssen (Johnson and Johnson) and Moderna vaccines. British nationals resident in Luxembourg are eligible for vaccination. Further information can be found in the guidance on how to get a vaccine in Luxembourg. The guidance includes information on the vaccinations strategy and how to book an appointment.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in Luxembourg, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
If you receive your COVID-19 vaccination in Luxembourg, you can get an EU Digital COVID Certificate from the national authorities. The Certificate proves that you have been vaccinated against COVID-19, received a negative test result, or recovered from COVID-19. It will help facilitate your travel within the EU and, in some countries, you can use it to demonstrate your COVID-19 status to businesses and other organisations. For further information visit the European Commission’s EU Digital COVID Certificate page.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Help and support
Further advice and information is available from the Luxembourg Government (in English).
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
