This page has information on travelling to Luxembourg. Check what you must do to return to the UK.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport from the UK, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Luxembourg set and enforce entry rules.
All travellers
UK nationals are now permitted to enter Luxembourg for non-essential purposes. All travellers arriving by air must complete a passenger locator form while on the plane. Further details can be found on the Luxembourg government’s website.
If you’re fully vaccinated
If you’re fully vaccinated, you can enter Luxembourg without needing to test or quarantine.
You will be required to show proof of vaccination and will need to complete a passenger locator form before arrival.
Find out if you qualify as fully vaccinated in Luxembourg on the Luxembourg government website.
Proof of vaccination status
You must present proof that you have been fully vaccinated to enter Luxembourg.
Luxembourg will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 recovery and vaccination record and proof of COVID-19 vaccination issued in the Crown Dependencies. However a screenshot or a photo is not sufficient. Your final vaccine dose must have been administered a least 14 days prior to travel. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
If you’re not fully vaccinated
If you’re not fully vaccinated, you’ll need to show proof of a negative PCR test (taken no more than 72 hours before entry) or rapid lateral flow test (taken no more than 48 hours before entry) when entering Luxembourg. See information on getting a test before entry.
If you’ve had COVID-19 in the past year
If you’re not fully vaccinated but have tested positive for COVID-19 in the last year you can enter Luxembourg. You will need to show proof of recovery.
You can use the UK’s proof of COVID-19 recovery record to demonstrate proof of COVID-19 recovery when entering Luxembourg.
Children and young people
Children aged 12 years and 2 months or older are subject to the requirements to show proof of vaccination, proof of recovery or proof of a recent negative test.
If you’re transiting through Luxembourg
There are no specific rules regarding transiting through Luxembourg. You should observe the same rules as for travellers visiting Luxembourg.
Exemptions
You should check the Luxembourg government website for the latest information on exemptions to rules.
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
Check with your travel provider to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Passport validity
If you are planning to travel to an EU country (except Ireland), or Switzerland, Norway, Ice-land, Liechtenstein, Andorra, Monaco, San Marino or Vatican City, you must meet the Schengen area rules.
Your passport must meet 2 requirements. It must be:
less than 10 years old on the day you enter (check the ‘date of issue’)
valid for at least 3 months after the day you plan to leave (check the ‘expiry date’)
We are asking the European Commission to clarify the 10-year rule. Their guidance for Schengen border guards may not be updated until the spring of 2022. Until then, for some Schengen countries your passport may need to be less than 10 years old during your whole visit, and the 3 months at the end of your visit may need to be within 10 years of your passport’s issue date.
Check both the issue date and the expiry date in your passport. If you renewed your passport early, extra months may have been added to its expiry date. This could affect the requirement for your passport to be less than 10 years old.
Contact your travel provider or embassy of the country you are visiting if you think that your passport does not meet both these requirements. Renew your passport if you need to.
Visas
The rules for travelling or working in European countries changed on 1 January 2021:
you can travel to countries in the Schengen area for up to 90 days in any 180-day period without a visa. This applies if you travel as a tourist, to visit family or friends, to attend business meetings, cultural or sports events, or for short-term studies or training
if you are travelling to Luxembourg and other Schengen countries without a visa, make sure your whole visit is within the 90-day limit. Visits to Schengen countries within the previous 180 days before you travel count towards your 90 days
to stay longer, to work or study, for business travel or for other reasons, you will need to meet the Luxembourg government’s entry requirements. Check with the Luxembourg Embassy what type of visa and/or work permit you may need
if you stay in Luxembourg with a residence permit or long-stay visa, this does not count towards your 90-day visa-free limit
Any time you spent in Luxembourg or other Schengen countries before 1 January 2021 does not count towards your 90-day visa-free limit.
At Luxembourg border control, you may need to queue in separate lanes from EU, EEA and Swiss citizens.
Check your passport is stamped if you enter or exit the Schengen area through Luxembourg as a visitor. Border guards will use passport stamps to check you’re complying with the 90-day visa-free limit for short stays in the Schengen area. If relevant entry or exit stamps are not in your passport, border guards will presume that you have overstayed your visa-free limit.
You can show evidence of when and where you entered or exited the Schengen area, and ask the border guards to add this date and location in your passport. Examples of acceptable evidence include boarding passes and tickets.
You may also need to:
show a return or onward ticket
show you have enough money for your stay
If you are resident in the Luxembourg your passport should not be stamped. You should pro-actively show your proof of residence as well as your valid passport at Luxembourg border control. For further information, see our Living in Luxembourg guide.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents are accepted for entry and exit from Luxembourg.
Returning to the UK
Check what you must do to return to the UK.
