Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

There are currently no scheduled passenger services operating from Luxembourg Airport (Findel). You should consult airline websites for details of when services will resume
We advise British travellers who are currently in Luxembourg and who wish to return to the UK to make travel plans to do so as soon as possible. Travellers wishing to return should contact their travel operator, checking the website of their airlines, train company or ferry companies for further advice. Travellers should also consult the travel advice for France and Belgium for further detail on any travel restrictions.
See more information and advice about staying where you are if you cannot return to the UK.
If you are planning on travelling through France to return to the UK, the French government have implemented their own measures, including required documents for travel into, and transit through, France.
If you are planning to use this route, check the latest travel advice for France ahead of your journey.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Arrival in the UK
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Further information
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
Travellers returning by road or rail via France or Belgium should also consult FCO Travel Advice for France and Belgium.
