

Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.      
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Luxembourg
Terrorist attacks in Luxembourg cannot be ruled out.
Crime
Violent crime is not common in Luxembourg cities. However, violent robberies have happened.
Report any thefts in person to the nearest police station within 24 hours and get a police report crime number for insurance purposes.  
Protecting your belongings
Pickpockets operate on buses and in train stations, particularly in the main train station, Gare de Luxembourg. Hotel lobbies in the Findel area are reported to be hotspots for thefts and pickpocketing. To reduce your risk:
do not keep your passport, credit cards and other valuables in the same place
keep your belongings close to you in restaurants and bars
avoid being distracted around tourist attractions and ATMs
Scams
Scammers can target foreign visitors and residents. Be cautious and make sure you have all the information you need before you provide any personal or bank details.
Laws and cultural differences
Alcohol laws
The minimum legal drinking age is 16. Being drunk and disorderly in public is a criminal offence that can result in arrest for a night and a heavy fine.
Illegal drugs
Illegal drugs, including cannabis, carry severe penalties. You should expect a long jail sentence and heavy fines for possessing, using or smuggling illegal drugs, including when transiting through the airport.
The airport in Luxembourg has excellent technology and security for detecting illegal items. This is also used to scan the baggage of transiting passengers.
Transport risks
Road travel
If you are planning to drive in Luxembourg, see information on driving abroad and check the rules of the road in the RAC’s Luxembourg guide. The guide lists driving regulations and other legal requirements you need to be aware of.
The Luxembourg authorities strictly enforce road traffic laws. You can get a fine for minor violations.
You can use a UK photocard driving licence to drive in Luxembourg for one year. If you still have a paper driving licence, you may need to update it to a photocard licence or get the correct version of the international driving permit (IDP) as well. The minimum age for driving a car is 18.
Within one year of taking up residence in Luxembourg, you must convert your UK licence into a Luxembourg licence. See guidance on driving if you live in Luxembourg.
Hire car companies often have stricter requirements for their customers, such as a year of driving experience, a higher minimum age and holding an IDP.   
You must carry these documents in the vehicle or face a fine:
driving licence
vehicle registration document
car insurance certificate
road tax
MOT certificate
Carry your passport because it’s easy to cross into neighbouring countries without realising it.
Drink-driving is a serious offence in Luxembourg. The blood alcohol limit for experienced drivers is 0.05% (in England it’s 0.08%). If you’ve had your licence less than 2 years, the limit is 0.02%. You could get a fine and possible imprisonment if you’re caught over the limit.        
Winter tyres
Your vehicle must have regulation winter tyres if you drive in winter conditions such as black ice, packed snow, slush, ice sheets or frost. You must add winter tyres or all-weather tyres marked with ‘M.S.’, ‘M+S’, ‘M&S’ or the alpine symbol on all wheels of the vehicle.
All drivers must follow these regulations, regardless of their vehicle’s country of registration. You will get a fine if you do not have the correct tyres.
For more information, see Luxembourg winter tyre regulations.
Taxis
It is safer to use official taxis at clearly marked taxi stands. Official taxis display a price list. Check the rate per kilometre before you get into a taxi – some may charge highly inflated prices. Drivers are allowed to charge extra in the evenings and on Sunday.
