This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Luxembourg as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Luxembourg to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Luxembourg
For information on entering Luxembourg, see Entry Requirements
The Luxembourg Government has announced its exit strategy (in English), which outlines the resumption of activities in successive phases.
Under the first phase, which began on 20 April, construction and gardening/landscaping activities restarted, and recycling centres and DIY shops reopened. Some senior secondary school classes resumed on 4 May.
The second phase began on 11 May with the reopening of shops and other commercial establishments. However, restaurants, bars, café, cinemas, sports halls and restaurants will remain closed until at least 1 June. Outdoor sports activities without physical contact and of a non-competitive nature can resume.
Hairdressers and beauticians can open on an appointment only basis, and cultural institutions, including libraries and museums can reopen within a strict framework of reduced numbers and online reservations.
Social visits are permitted indoors for up to six people (plus members of the household), and outdoor gatherings of up to 20 people are authorised.
Secondary schools resumed. Pupils returning to school will be separated, and masks will be obligatory where the two-metre social distancing requirement cannot be guaranteed.
The third phase begins on 25 May with the opening of primary schools, crèches and childcare facilities.
Indoor gatherings will remain prohibited until 31 July, although funerals and civil weddings are permitted with a maximum of 20 people provided the 2-metre social distancing requirement can be respected.
Face masks
It is mandatory to wear a mask (or anything else covering the mouth and nose, such as a scarf), to be worn in situations where the social distancing requirement cannot be met e.g. supermarkets and on public transport.
Health
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Luxembourg.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Luxembourg, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
Further advice and information is available from the Luxembourg Government (in English).
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
