The Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) advises against all but essential travel to:
the whole of Luxembourg based on the current assessment of COVID-19 risks.
Travel is subject to entry restrictions
Due to COVID-19 restrictions, the Luxembourg Government has announced that from 1 January 2021 UK nationals will not be permitted entry to Luxembourg for non-essential purposes due to EU-wide COVID-19 restrictions on non-EU and EEA nationals. More information is provided on the Luxembourg government website. Essential travel is still permitted and a list of exemptions for entering Luxembourg can be found here.
From Friday 29 January, the Luxembourg Government requires all airline passengers, from the age of 6 years old to be in possession of a negative PCR COVID-19 test result. This test should be taken no more than 72 hours before the flight. Proof of a negative viral antigen (rapid test), taken no more than 72 hours before the flight, will also be accepted.
If you are travelling to Luxembourg by air, you will also be asked to complete a passenger locator form while on the plane.
Preparing for your return journey to the UK
Luxembourg is on the amber list for entering England. Check what you must do to enter England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
If your return journey to the UK transits another country, you should check whether it is subject to a travel ban or any other additional requirements. If so, contact your travel provider.
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
If you’re planning travel to Luxembourg, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCDO guidance on foreign travel insurance.
For information about COVID-19 vaccines, see the Coronavirus page.
There are rules about taking food and drink into the EU. See Taking food and drink into the EU for further information.
Around 120,000 British nationals visit Luxembourg every year (Source: STATEC (Statistics Office in Luxembourg). Most visits are trouble-free.
If you’re living in or moving to Luxembourg, visit our Living in Luxembourg guide in addition to this travel advice.
Terrorists are likely to try to carry out attacks in Luxembourg. Attacks could happen anywhere, including in places visited by foreigners. See Terrorism
All vehicles must have winter tyres when temperatures are zero or below. See Road travel
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.
The Overseas Business Risk service offers information and advice for British companies operating overseas on how to manage political, economic, and business security-related risks.
