Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Guinea-Bissau on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Guinea-Bissau.
Returning to the UK
Travelling from and returning to the UK
Check what you must do to travel abroad and return to England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
If you plan to pass through another country to return to the UK, check the travel advice for the country you’re transiting.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Guinea-Bissau
The government of Guinea-Bissau announced a state of alert until 3 March. Under the state of alert, vaccination passes are required to enter public and private institutions. Gatherings indoors are limited to 50% capacity, and social distancing of 1 metre must be respected. The operation of clubs and bars is prohibited and political meetings and rallies are banned.
You should read local news and announcements if you plan on travelling. The government has set up a Portuguese language coronavirus hotline that you can call on: 1919 or 2020.
Public places and services
Under the state of calamity, markets will close from 3pm daily, and at weekends. Sporting and religious events are currently banned. Restaurants and bars are closed except for takeaway food.
Healthcare in Guinea-Bissau
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Guinea-Bissau
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Guinea-Bissau
We will update this page when the Government of Guinea Bissau announces new information on the national vaccination programme You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Guinea Bissau national vaccine programme started in April 2021 and is using the AstraZeneca and Sinopharm vaccines. The Janssen (Johnson and Johnson) vaccine may also be available. The Government of Guinea Bissau has stated that British nationals resident in Guinea Bissau are eligible for vaccination if they choose to join the programme. Further information on the vaccination programme is available on the High Commission for COVID-19 website (in Portuguese) and their Facebook page.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad page.
If you’re a British national living in Guinea Bissau, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
