This page has information on travelling to Guinea-Bissau.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport from the UK, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Guinea-Bissau set and enforce entry rules. If you’re unsure how Guinea-Bissau’s entry requirements apply to you, contact its UK embassy, high commission or consulate.
All travellers
All those entering Guinea Bissau must present a negative COVID-19 PCR test result from an accredited institution, taken within the last 48 hours. You should not use the NHS testing service to get a test in order to facilitate your travel to another country. You should arrange to take a private test. See information on getting a test before entry.
You will also have to take a COVID test within 72 hours of your departure from Guinea Bissau at a cost of 25,000 CFA (around £33). Tests are only available in the capital, Bissau.
You may also be required to fill in a form with information on your origin and contacts. If you display any symptoms for COVID-19 on arrival, you will be tested again, and have to remain in isolation at your place of residence until results are delivered. If someone on your flight is thought to have COVID-19, you may be required to isolate at one location for 14 days, and be monitored by the health authorities.
If you’re fully vaccinated
Entry requirements for Guinea-Bissau are the same for all travellers, regardless of whether you have been vaccinated.
If you’re not fully vaccinated
Entry requirements for Guinea-Bissau are the same for all travellers, regardless of whether you have been vaccinated.
If you’ve had COVID-19 in the past year
Entry requirements for Guinea-Bissau are the same for all travellers, regardless of whether you have tested positive for COVID-19 in the past year.
Children and young people
Children (aged 3 and over) should follow the rules for adults to enter Guinea-Bissau.
If you’re transiting through Guinea-Bissau
Transiting is when you pass through one country on the way to your final destination.
Check with your airline before departing
Exemptions
There are no exemptions to Guinea-Bissau’s entry requirements.
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
Visas
British nationals need a visa to enter Guinea Bissau. Guinea Bissau does not have an Embassy in London. Contact the Guinea Bissau Embassy in Paris at 94 Rue St Lazare for further information. Guinea Bissau also has Embassies in neighbouring countries, including Senegal, which issue visas.
Yellow fever
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
Passport validity
Your passport should be valid for a minimum period of 6 months from the date of entry into Guinea-Bissau.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents are accepted for entry into, transit through and exit from Guinea Bissau.
