If you have a health condition, or you are pregnant, you may need specialist healthcare abroad. Check whether your destination country can provide the healthcare you may need and ensure you have appropriate travel insurance for unexpected medical evacuation or local treatment.
See the Coronavirus travel health and Healthcare sections in the Coronavirus page for COVID-19 health information.
At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
UK health authorities have classified Guinea-Bissau as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For more information and advice, visit the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
Medical treatment
Medical facilities in Guinea-Bissau are extremely limited and hospitals are not fully operational. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation.
Pharmacies in Guinea Bissau are limited and may sometimes have limited supplies. Pharmacies will accept UK prescriptions. Pharmacies are the only places where you can buy medicines. Please note that pharmacies in Guinea Bissau do not have accreditation with UK insurance companies so make sure you speak to your insurance company beforehand if you need a refund.
Health risks
Malaria, dengue fever and other tropical diseases are common in Guinea Bissau, especially during the rainy season (June-October). You should take steps to avoid being bitten by mosquitoes.
UK health authorities have classified Guinea-Bissau as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For more information and advice, visit the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
There are occasional outbreaks of cholera, particularly during the rainy season and in areas where there is poor sanitation.
The United Nations International Children’s Emergency Fund’s report for 2018 estimated that 44,000 people (adults and children) in Guinea-Bissau were living with HIV; the prevalence percentage was estimated at around 3.5% of the adult population compared to the prevalence percentage in adults in the UK of around 0.2%.You should exercise normal precautions to avoid exposure to HIV/AIDS.
