

Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Guinea-Bissau
Although there is no recent history of terrorism in Guinea-Bissau, attacks cannot be ruled out. 
Attacks could be indiscriminate, including in places frequented by foreign nationals. Stay aware of your surroundings, keep up to date with local media reports and follow the advice of local authorities.
Political situation
Guinea-Bissau suffers from political instability. In the event of any political unrest follow the advice of local authorities and monitor local media for information. Stay alert to local developments and avoid sensitive areas like military installations and government buildings. Avoid demonstrations or large public gatherings.
If you have any doubts about the level of security in an area, stay at home or in your hotel.
Crime
Pickpocketing and bag and phone snatching are relatively common in the capital city, Bissau. Where possible, keep valuables such as phones hidden when out in public.
Be especially careful in remote areas where security forces have a limited presence.
Landmines
Landmines remain a risk in parts of the country, and demining operations continue. The national demining centre (CAAMI) declared Bissau free from landmines. Outside of Bissau, take local advice and stay on paved roads.
Laws and cultural differences
Personal ID
You must carry ID such as a passport or residence permit, particularly when driving or in a taxi. Police forces regularly ask for ID.
Illegal drugs and prison sentences
There are severe penalties for all drug offences. Local prison conditions are harsh.
LGBT+ travellers
Same-sex sexual relationships are not criminalised. However, Guinea-Bissau is a conservative society and same-sex couples showing affection in public may attract unwanted and negative attention.
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Money
Guinea-Bissau is a cash-based economy. Credit cards are rarely used and there are not many ATMs in the country. If you need to exchange foreign currency, use an official bureau de change.
Transport risks
Road travel
If you are planning to drive in Guinea-Bissau, see information on driving abroad.
You can use a UK photocard driving licence to drive in Guinea-Bissau for up to 3 months. If you still have a paper driving licence, you may need to update it to a photocard licence or get the correct version of the international driving permit (IDP) as well. You’ll also need a registration card number with you in the vehicle – your car hire firm should provide this.
It’s recommended you get local car insurance recognised by the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) Brown Card scheme.
Hire car companies often have stricter requirements for their customers, such as a year of driving experience, a higher minimum age and holding an IDP.
Drink-driving is a serious offence in Guinea-Bissau. If you are tested and found to have any alcohol in your system, you may get a fine and a possible prison sentence.
Road conditions
Traffic is generally light but driving standards and road conditions, including in Bissau, are poor. Avoid road travel at night and take suitable precautions in the rainy season, which runs from June to October. Heavy rains can make road and driving conditions difficult.
