Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

Coronavirus (COVID-19): stay up to date
Find out how to return to the UK from Guinea-Bissau
See information on local measures in Guinea Bissau to limit the spread of the virus
See coronavirus travel advice for guidance on international travel
Sign up for email alerts for Guinea-Bissau travel advice
The Bissau-Guinean authorities have introduced new measures in relation to coronavirus. A state of emergency is in place. All borders are now closed and public transport has been suspended to stop the spread of the virus. For full information, see Coronavirus
There are no commercial routes out of Guinea Bissau. It may be possible to leave on a European repatriation flight. If you are a UK visitor who is normally resident in the UK and you want to leave Guinea Bissau, please contact the British Embassy Dakar, which covers Guinea Bissau, on Facebook or Twitter.
Guinea-Bissau suffers from political instability. Following the presidential elections in November and December 2019, there is now an enhanced military presence around the capital, including government buildings and the airport. You should exercise a high degree of caution should you decide to travel to Guinea-Bissau. In the event of any political unrest you should follow the advice of local authorities.
Although the security situation is currently calm, you should stay alert to local developments and avoid sensitive areas like military installations. You should also avoid any demonstrations or large public gatherings. See Political situation
UK health authorities have classified Guinea-Bissau as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For more information and advice, visit the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
Terrorist attacks in Guinea-Bissau can’t be ruled out. Attacks could be indiscriminate. You should be vigilant, especially in places visited by foreigners. See Terrorism
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission. Consular support is not available from the British government in Guinea-Bissau. However, the British Embassy Dakar in Senegal can provide consular support to British nationals but you should note that, due to the measures introduced by the authorities in response to Coronavirus (COVID-19), capacity is extremely limited.
Take out comprehensive travel and medical insurance before you travel.
