Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Chad on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
As of 5 July 2021, there is no longer a ban (related to the Alpha variant of COVID-19) on travellers from the UK entering Chad. All international travellers need to present a negative COVID-19 PCR test certificate dated no more than 72 hours prior to arrival in Chad. As of 5 July 2021, travellers arriving by air will have their temperatures taken and be required to take an antigen or RT-PCR test at the airport before entering town. There will be a charge of 20,000 FCFA (40 US Dollars or 30 Euros) for this test.
If you enter Chad and are planning to stay for 7 days or more, you will also need to take a COVID-19 PCR test on the seventh day.
As of 5 July 2021, holders of Chadian COVID-19 vaccination certificates, indicating that they have been fully vaccinated against COVID-19 in Chad, may be exempt from some or all of these requirements.
Entry and borders
See Entry Requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Chad.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Chad
Quarantine and curfew measures
The Government has extended the health emergency, which includes measures such as the compulsory wearing of face masks in indoor public spaces. There are penalties, including potential imprisonment, for non-compliance.
Healthcare in Chad
For contact details for doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Chad.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Chad
We will update this page when the Government of Chad announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications](https://www.gov.uk/foreign-travel-advice/chad/email-signup) when this page is updated.
The Chad national vaccination programme started in June 2021 in N’Djamena, Abeché and Moundou and is using the Pfizer-BioNTech and Sinopharm vaccines. The Government of Chad has stated that British nationals resident in Chad are able to receive the vaccination if they choose to join the programme. Vaccine sites include: l’Hôpital de la Renaissance, CHU Référence Nationale, CHU de la Mère et de l’Enfant, le CHU Bon Samaritan, l’Hôpital de l’Amitié Tchado-Chine, l’Hôpital d’Instruction Militaire, l’Hôpital Provincial de Farcha, et le Centre International de Vaccination. We have been advised that prospective vaccine recipients should arrive at a vaccine site with a photo identification and two (2) photos. Contact your local healthcare provider for further information on Chad’s vaccination programme.
To find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in Chad, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
