This page has information on travelling to Chad. Check what you must do to return to the UK.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport from the UK, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Chad set and enforce entry rules.
All travellers
All travellers should familiarise themselves with the entry rules for Chad before travel.
If you’re fully vaccinated
If you’re fully vaccinated, you can enter Chad without needing to test or quarantine.
Proof of vaccination status
You must present proof that you have been fully vaccinated to enter Chad.
Chad will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 vaccination record and proof of COVID-19 vaccination issued in the Crown Dependencies. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
You can use a printed (PDF) copy of the UK COVID Pass to demonstrate your vaccination record when entering Chad.
If you’re not fully vaccinated
If you’re not fully vaccinated, you’ll need to show proof of a negative PCR test (taken no more than 96 hours before entry) in order to enter Chad.
Children and young people
Children under 12 years do not need to show proof of vaccination to enter Chad.
If you’re transiting through Chad
Transiting is when you pass through one country on the way to your final destination.
Check with your airline before departing.
Exemptions
There are no exemptions to Chad’s entry requirements.
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
Passport validity
If you are visiting Chad, your passport should be valid for six months from the date you arrive.
If you are a resident in Chad, your passport must be valid for six months from the date you arrive.
Check with your travel provider to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Visas
British nationals need a visa to visit Chad. To apply for a visa contact the Chadian Embassy in Belgium at 52 Boulevard Lambermont, 1030, Brussels, Telephone: +32 2 215 1975, Fax: +32 2 216 3526, or the Chadian Embassy in France at 65 rue des Belles Feuilles, 75116, Paris, Telephone: +33 (0)1 45 53 36 75, Fax: +33 (0)1 45 53 16 09.
If your visa is valid for longer than a short visit, the immigration officer on arrival will ask you to register at the Commissariat Central (police headquarters) on Avenue General Kerim Nassour (formerly Boulevard de Strasbourg) within 3 days. You will need to provide a passport photograph.
When you are in Chad
Keep your passport, and those of immediate family members, up to date, along with any visas that you may require; a replacement emergency travel document may take time to issue, which could make travelling more complicated.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
A yellow fever certificate is required for travel to Chad and may be requested by airlines prior to travel to and upon arrival in Chad.
Returning to the UK
Check what you must do to return to the UK.
Leaving Chad
Travellers departing from Chad are required to conform with the Covid-19 requirements of their destination (and any relevant transit) country.
