Coronavirus guidance is being updated.
Read the Prime Minister’s statement for the latest information.

There are no commercial options available to return to the UK from Chad as airports are currently closed for passenger flights.
If you cannot leave at this time, see advice on staying in Chad during coronavirus.
Special Air France Flight
Air France will operate a special fight from N’Djamena to Paris on Saturday 4 July. The timings are not yet confirmed. Reservations for this flight need to be made exclusively with the Air France Office in N’Djamena and not through the French Embassy. You should look at the Travel Advice page for France for advice on transit and onward travel to the UK, including the French requirements for documentation.
If you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Future options
This travel advice will be updated when departure options become available. Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the UK Government Office on Twitter.
Your journey home: re-entering the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK. You:
need to provide your journey and contact details up to 48 hours before you’re due to arrive in the UK
are not allowed to leave the place you’re staying for the first 14 days you’re in the UK except in very limited situations (known as ‘self-isolating’)
See also the list of people who are exempt from the border rules.
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) also provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, you should contact the British High Commission in Yaoundé, Cameroon, by emailing ConsularYaoundeEnquiries@fco.gov.uk or calling +237 222 220 796.
The UK Government Office and the British High Commission cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone. This page will be updated when departure options become available. To get the latest information, sign up for travel advice alerts.
Further information
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
