!
Warning
FCDO advises against all travel to parts of Chad.

This guide also has safety advice for regions of Chad.
Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Chad
Terrorists are very likely to try to carry out attacks in Chad.
Terrorist attacks could be indiscriminate and occur without warning, including in places visited by foreign nationals, such as:
hotels, restaurants, bars and nightclubs
shopping areas and markets
airports and other transport hubs
places of worship (especially churches)
national parks
foreign embassies and other diplomatic or military facilities
national and local government facilities
Stay aware of your surroundings, keep up to date with local media reports and follow the advice of local authorities. Avoid all large gatherings, including:
music festivals
shows and concerts
sporting events
public marches and demonstrations
Be extra cautious during elections, festivities, and religious and public holidays.
The terrorist groups Islamic State West Africa and Boko Haram remain active in the Lake Chad region. In an attack in 2022, Boko Haram killed at least 30 Chadian soldiers near Baga Sola, Lac Province. A state of emergency is in place in the Lac and Kanem provinces with Chadian security forces conducting military operations. In October 2024, at least 40 soldiers were killed in an attack by Boko Haram on a Chadian military base in Barkaram, Lake Chad region.
Terrorist kidnapping
There is a high risk of terrorist kidnapping in the Lake Chad Basin and the border areas with Cameroon, Sudan and the Central African Republic.
British nationals are seen as legitimate targets, including tourists, humanitarian aid workers, journalists and business travellers. If you are kidnapped, the reason for your presence is unlikely to protect you or secure your safe release.  
There is also a high risk of terrorist kidnapping in the Sahel region, which includes Chad, Mauritania, Mali, Burkina Faso, Niger and Mali. Over the last 10 years, terrorist groups in the Sahel have kidnapped western nationals, including tourists, non-governmental organisation (NGO) workers and diplomats, and are still holding several hostages. Kidnappers have killed some hostages, including several British nationals.
Terrorist groups active in the Lake Chad Basin and the Sahel region include Jamaat Nusrat al-Islam wal Muslimeen (JNIM), Islamic State West Africa (ISWA), Islamic State Greater Sahara (ISGS), Al-Qaida in the Islamic Maghreb (AQIM), Al Murabitoun, Ansar Dine and Boko Haram. These groups can carry out attacks and kidnappings over long distances. Boko Haram and ISWA also take hostages from neighbouring Cameroon, northern Nigeria and the Diffa region of Niger. Kidnapping for ransom is the main source of finance for JNIM. Criminal gangs also carry out kidnappings for terrorist groups in return for financial rewards.
You should always stay alert, especially when travelling and in crowded public places, including camps for displaced people, religious gatherings and insecure spaces such as places of worship, markets, shopping areas, hotels, bars, nightclubs, restaurants and transport hubs. Make sure you have carefully considered the threat and have reasonable, proportionate mitigation measures in place.
The long-standing policy of the British government is not to make substantive concessions to hostage takers. The British government considers that paying ransoms and releasing prisoners builds the capability of terrorist groups and finances their activities. This can, in turn, increase the risk of further hostage-taking. The Terrorism Act (2000) makes payments to terrorists illegal.
Political situation
There is a continuing risk of instability in Chad, particularly in its border regions and during major political events. Chad is undergoing a political transition, and voting in Presidential elections concluded on 6 May. Following the announcement of preliminary results, protests were called by opposition groups. Legislative elections are also due to take place before the end of 2024.
On 28 February, several people were killed or injured in armed clashes between supporters of the PSF (Socialist Party without Borders) and government forces in Chad’s capital. The leader of the PSF, Yaya Dillo, was amongst those killed.
Public demonstrations, including anti-government protests, are common in Chad. Crowds can gather quickly and may become violent. In 2022, security forces fired live ammunition during a clash with protestors, and civilians were killed and injured.
Demonstrations have targeted foreign, national and local government facilities, resulting in damage. Monitor the local news to help you avoid such gatherings. If a crowd gathers near you, leave the area immediately.
While celebratory gunfire is illegal in Chad, it can occur during celebrations, including during weddings and some political events. Celebratory gunfire led to civilian deaths and injuries in May 2024 after the announcement of provisional election results. In the event of celebratory gunfire, take cover on the lower levels of buildings and away from windows.
In 2021, an armed convoy belonging to the rebel group Le front pour l’alternance et la concorde au Tchad (FACT) crossed into Chad from Libya and fought government forces. President Idriss Deby Itno was killed, and a transitional military council was established to govern Chad. The UK government advised British nationals to leave Chad. The British Embassy in N’Djamena closed temporarily. 
Crime
Carjacking
There is a high risk of carjacking on roads outside N’Djamena, including during the daytime.
Armed robbery
Armed robbery is common in some residential areas of N’Djamena, particularly from cars. Robbers sometimes target foreign nationals because they’re considered wealthier.
Protecting yourself and your belongings
Stay alert and be particularly cautious about street crime if you’re on foot in the capital. Do not carry large sums of money, jewellery or other valuables. Avoid isolated or less developed areas of towns and do not go out alone or at night.
To reduce your personal risk, consider using pre-arranged secure cars to get around N’Djamena. Keep car doors locked and windows closed.
Laws and cultural differences
Respect local traditions, customs, laws and religions. Make sure you do not offend local cultures or religious beliefs, especially during the holy month of Ramadan or if you plan to visit religious areas.
Personal ID
Always carry a certified copy of your passport. If you cannot show ID, the police could detain you. You could also face delays if you have to leave the country. If you live in Chad, always carry your residence permit.
Ramadan  
Ramadan is a holy month for Muslims. The dates vary by year and country. During this time, do not:
eat, drink, smoke or chew gum in public in the daytime, including in your car
play loud music or dance
swear in public
Get more advice when you arrive from your tour guide, hotel or business contacts.
You should also:
check opening hours of shops and restaurants
be aware that if hotels and restaurants are providing food or drink in fasting hours, they may separate you from Islamic guests, for example with screens
follow local dress codes – clothing that does not meet local dress codes may cause more offence at this time
be aware that fasting can cause tiredness, particularly during the later afternoon and early evening
be aware that driving may be erratic, particularly when people are trying to get home at dusk
be patient and show tolerance
Illegal drugs and prison sentences
Penalties for drug use and possession are severe and usually include a prison sentence. Conditions in local prisons are harsh.
Using cameras
It is illegal to photograph military sites, government buildings or airports without a permit.  
LGBT+ travellers
Same-sex sexual activity is illegal in Chad, with penalties of imprisonment ranging from 3 months to 2 years and a fine of between 50,000 and 500,000 CFA francs. Same-sex relationships are not widely accepted by Chadian society.
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Transport risks
Road travel
If you are planning to drive in Chad, see information on driving abroad.
You must convert your UK driving licence to a Chadian one to drive in Chad.
Driving standards and security
Road travel can be dangerous due to road conditions and the standard of driving. Accidents involving motorbikes are common. Crowds quickly gather around the scene of an accident and, while rarely violent, can be intimidating. If you’re involved in an accident, try to contact the police or other local authority immediately. Phone: 2020 (police) or 1212 (fire and ambulance).
Do not travel by road after dark due to the risk of crime and poor road conditions. Military guards may think you’re a security risk if you drive near government buildings at night.
Travel in convoy, keep doors locked and carry spare fuel and supplies. There are often fuel shortages.
Police checkpoints are common. Officers may ask you to show your passport, driving licence and vehicle registration documents.
Take care on the road in front of the Presidential Palace in N’Djamena. Do not stop in front of the palace, drive close to the guards or use this road at night. In 2023 a military guard was killed when an unmarked car stopped outside the presidential palace. Guards are likely to be on high alert and may act in an unpredictable way.    
Travelling outside N’Djamena
To travel outside N’Djamena, you must get authorisation from the Ministry of the Interior, which is normally granted without difficulty after a few days. Many businesses arrange escorts when their western staff travel outside the capital for any reason.
Before you consider any travel outside the capital, take professional security advice. You should:
follow your employer’s security advice, if available
inform the correct Chadian authorities of your journey
use a police or military escort and carry communications equipment
have the right permits
hold appropriate travel insurance
Extreme weather and natural disasters
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards.
Rainy season
Roads are poor and often impassable during the rainy season from July to October, especially in the south. Heavy rains can cause major flooding in many areas, particularly in the south and east. Bring food and clean water with you.
