Terrorists are very likely to try to carry out attacks in Chad.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out more about the global threat from terrorism.
Attacks could be indiscriminate, including in places frequented by foreigners like restaurants, bars, markets, hotels, shopping centres and places of worship.
You should avoid places where there are political or other large public gatherings. Be vigilant, remain alert and pay attention to your surroundings at all times. You should follow local news reports and be alert to developments.
Following the terrorist attacks on hotels in Bamako (Mali) and Ouagadougou (Burkina Faso) in November 2015 and January 2016, in which a number of people were killed, it’s possible that terrorist groups including Boko Haram and Ansaru will try to carry out similar attacks in Chad.
There have been numerous attacks by armed elements in the Lake Chad region since 2016. The terrorist group Boko Haram remains active in this region. In an attack in March 2020, Boko Haram are reported to have killed at least 92 Chadian soldiers in Boma, Lac province. Military operations are ongoing and a state of emergency remains in place.
In 2015, there were a number of terrorist attacks in the capital N’Djamena.
Security in the capital has been reinforced and police check points and vehicle checks are routine. There have been no subsequent terrorist attacks in N’Djamena.
Terrorist Kidnaps
There is a heightened threat of kidnap in Chad, particularly in the Lake Chad Basin and the border areas with the Far North region of Cameroon, Sudan and the Central African Republic.
Boko Haram and Islamic State West Africa (ISWA) maintain an intent and capability to conduct kidnaps in Chad, and have also taken hostages from neighbouring Cameroon, northern Nigeria and the Diffa region of Niger. If you’re working or travelling in areas where there is a Boko Haram or ISWA presence, especially around the Lake Chad Basin, you should be aware of the risk of terrorist kidnapping. You should maintain a high level of vigilance at all times, including when travelling, when in crowded public places, including camps for displaced people, religious gatherings and insecure spaces like places of worship, markets, shopping malls, hotels, bars, restaurants and transport hubs. You should ensure you have carefully considered the threat and have reasonable, proportionate mitigation measures in place.
British nationals are viewed as legitimate targets, including those engaged in tourism, humanitarian aid work, journalism or business sectors. If you’re kidnapped, the reason for your presence is unlikely to serve as a protection or secure your safe release.
The long-standing policy of the British Government is not to make substantive concessions to hostage takers. The British Government considers that paying ransoms and releasing prisoners builds the capability of terrorist groups and finances their activities. This can, in turn, increase the risk of further hostage-taking. The Terrorism Act (2000) makes payments to terrorists illegal.
Terrorist groups operating in Chad
Boko Haram and Islamic State West Africa (ISWA)
Boko Haram or Jama’at Ahl as-Sunnah lid-Da’wah wa’l-Jihad (JASDJ) is an Islamist terrorist group operating in Nigeria, Cameroon, Chad and Niger. The group aspire to establish a Sharia State in Nigeria and West Africa, destabilise the Nigerian government and remove western influence from the country.
The group was formerly linked to Al Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb (AQIM). On 12 March 2015, Daesh (formerly referred to as ISIL) accepted a pledge of allegiance by Boko Haram. In August 2016, the group split into 2 factions: Islamic State in West Africa (ISWA) and JASDJ or Boko Haram. ISWA is affiliated with ISIS core in Iraq and Syria and has expressed an intention to target Nigerian government, Christian and western interests.
The terrorist threat in the Sahel and Lake Chad Basin
There is a very high threat of kidnapping by terrorist groups operating in the Sahel region. A number of western nationals including tourists, NGO workers and diplomats have been kidnapped in the Sahel over the last ten years, and several are still being held. Some, including several British nationals, have been killed by their captors. Those engaged in humanitarian aid work, journalism or business sectors are viewed as legitimate targets. If you’re kidnapped, the reason for your presence is unlikely to serve as a protection or secure your safe release.
There are a number of terrorist groups active in the region. These include Jamaat Nusrat al-Islam wal Muslimeen (JNIM), Islamic State West Africa (ISWA), Islamic State Greater Sahara (ISGS), Al Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb (AQIM), Al Murabitoun, Ansar Dine and Boko Haram. These groups are capable of carrying out attacks and kidnaps over long distances. Kidnapping for ransom is the primary source of finance for Jamaat Nusrat al-Islam wal Muslimeen (JNIM). Criminal gangs also carry out kidnapping for terrorist groups in return for financial rewards.
Read more about the threat from terrorism in the Sahel region.
The long-standing policy of the British government is not to make substantive concessions to hostage takers. The British government considers that paying ransoms and releasing prisoners increases the risk of further hostage taking. The Terrorism Act (2000) also makes payments to terrorists illegal.
There’s a heightened threat of terrorist attack globally against UK interests and British nationals from groups or individuals motivated by the conflict in Iraq and Syria. You should be vigilant at this time.
