!
Warning
FCDO advises against all travel to parts of Chad.

Your travel insurance could be invalidated if you travel against advice from the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO).
Areas where FCDO advises against travel
Borkou, Ennedi Ouest, Ennedi Est and Tibesti provinces
FCDO advises against all travel to the northern provinces of Chad:
Borkou Province
Ennedi Ouest Province
Ennedi Est Province
Tibesti Province
Kanem Province, including Nokou
FCDO advises against all travel to the western part of Kanem Province, including the town of Nokou.
Lake Chad region
FCDO advises against all travel to the Lake Chad region.
Within 30km of all Chad’s other borders  
FCDO advises against all travel to within 30km of all of Chad’s other borders.   
The rest of Chad
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to the rest of Chad, including the capital, N’Djamena.
Find out more about why FCDO advises against travel.
Before you travel
No travel can be guaranteed safe. Read all the advice in this guide. You may also find it helpful to: 
see general advice for women travellers
read our guide on disability and travel abroad
see general advice for LGBT+ travellers
read about safety for solo and independent travel
see advice on volunteering and adventure travel abroad
Limited UK government support 
Support for British nationals is severely limited in Chad with assistance provided remotely from British High Commission Yaoundé. In-person assistance is not available. 
If there is serious violence, unrest or a deterioration in the security situation, it could be difficult to leave safely. 
Do not rely on the UK government to evacuate you as they may not be able to do so. Have your own plans on how you would leave the country, make sure you keep all travel documentation up to date and monitor the local situation.
Travel insurance
If you choose to travel, research your destinations and get appropriate travel insurance. Insurance should cover your itinerary, planned activities and expenses in an emergency.
About FCDO travel advice
FCDO provides advice about risks of travel to help you make informed decisions. Find out more about FCDO travel advice.
Get travel advice updates
Sign up to get email notifications when this travel advice is updated.
Follow FCDO:   
travel advice on X
travel advice on Facebook
Travel Aware on Instagram
