Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Finland on the TravelHealthPro website.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Finland.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements. You should contact local authorities for information on testing facilities.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19 in Finland, you will receive instructions from the Finnish authorities and will be asked to self-isolate. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Finland
The Finnish authorities introduced a number of measures to limit the spread of the virus. These measures include some controls on people arriving from abroad. See the Finnish Border Guard website for more details. From 29 March, this will include the right to order a compulsory health examination, which could include a COVID-19 test, on arrival.
Travel around Finland is still permitted, with some restrictions on the opening hours of restaurants, cafes and bars in some regions. Visit the THL website for details of regional restrictions. The Finnish authorities recommend the use of face masks when travelling on public transport and in other situations where maintaining safe distances is not possible. For further details visit the THL website. The wearing of facemasks on trains and on other public transport in some areas (including Helsinki) is now compulsory. Please check details before travelling. There are also restrictions on public premises and events. Check the Helsinki City website for more details and guidance on restrictions. The coronavirus situation around Finland can vary widely, so local advice should be followed.
Healthcare in Finland
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Finland.
COVID-19 Vaccines if you live in Finland
Wherever possible British nationals should aim to be vaccinated in the country/territory where they live. We will update this page when the Finnish authorities announce new information on their vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Finnish national vaccination programme started in December 2020 and uses the Pfizer-BioNTech, Moderna and AstraZeneca vaccines. The programme is open to all residents, including British nationals, aged 12 years or older. The vaccine is voluntary and free of charge. The Finnish authorities have issued guidance on how to access COVID-19 vaccines in Finland.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad page.
If you’re a British national living in Finland, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
The Finnish Ministry of Health and Social Affairs has opened a Coronavirus hotline (open Monday to Friday, 8am to 9pm and Saturday, 09am to 3pm) on +358 (0)2 95 535 535. The Finnish Institute for Health and Welfare has up to date information on coronavirus in Finland.
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
