This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Finland set and enforce entry rules. For further information contact their embassy, high commission or consulate. You may also check with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and travel documents meet their requirements.
If you are travelling to Finland for work, read the guidance on visas and permits as the rules have changed since 1 January 2021.
Entry rules in response to coronavirus (COVID-19)
Finland has introduced increased health screening measures on arrival for UK travellers. Adult travellers should be prepared to take a Covid-19 test on arrival. We will update this page with further information once available.
Entry to Finland - fully vaccinated and over 18
If you are travelling to Finland from the UK, you will need:
Proof of being fully vaccinated at least 7 days prior to arrival. See ‘Demonstrating your COVID-19 status’
If you have recovered from COVID-19 and have received one vaccine dose, you will be considered fully vaccinated by the Finnish authorities. You will need to evidence this on a single certificate.
Entry to Finland – not fully vaccinated
You will only be allowed to enter Finland if you can provide evidence of an essential or compassionate reason for entry. This does not include tourism.
If you are travelling to Finland from the UK, you will need:
Evidence of an essential or compassionate reason for entry to Finland. Visit the Finnish Border Guard website (Section 3.2 – Entry into Finland from countries and regions for which restrictions are still enforced) for full details
If you have received a negative COVID-19 test within 72 hours prior to arrival and/or a first dose of a COVID-19 vaccine received at least 2 weeks prior to arrival, you will need to take a COVID-19 test between days 3-5 in Finland. You should avoid contact with others and remain at home or in your accommodation, until you receive a negative test result
If you have no proof of a vaccination dose or negative COVID-19 test taken prior to arrival, you will need to take a COVID-19 test no later than 24 hours after arrival. You will also need to take a COVID-19 test between days 3-5 in Finland and should voluntarily avoid contact with people outside your household until you receive a negative test result
Entry to Finland – travelling with under 18 year olds
Young people born in 2006 or later are exempt from Finland’s COVID-19 entry requirements and they do not need to provide proof of vaccination or take a COVID test, if they are accompanied by a fully vaccinated adult guardian.
Young people aged 16 and 17 years old can enter Finland, if accompanied by a fully vaccinated adult guardian, but will need to comply with one of the following measures, as applicable:
You can present a certificate showing that you have recovered from COVID-19 within 6 months prior to arriving in Finland. There is no mandatory testing for 16 and 17 year olds who meet this requirement
You have received one COVID-19 vaccine dose at least 14 days prior to arriving in Finland. In this case, you must also take a COVID-19 test 3–5 days after arriving in Finland. You must avoid contact with others and remain at home or in your place of accommodation until you receive confirmation of a negative test result
You can present a certificate of a negative COVID-19 test taken before entering Finland. In this case, you must also take a COVID-19 test 3–5 days after arriving in Finland. You must avoid contact with others and remain at home or in your place of accommodation until you receive confirmation of a negative test result
If you have no certificates, you are obliged to take a COVID-19 test on arrival or no later than 24 hours after arrival.
You can use the FINENTRY service to check entry requirements and book COVID-19 tests on arrival, if applicable. Visitors to Lapland can also familiarise themselves with entry requirements on the Laplandentry website.
Demonstrating your COVID-19 status
Finland will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 vaccination record. If you are travelling with a printed PDF proof of vaccination status, it must date from 1 November to ensure that the certificate can be scanned successfully. Proof of recovery from COVID-19 will not be accepted for travellers from the UK demonstrating their COVID-19 status.
Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
Transiting Finland
There are no Finnish restrictions on cross-border traffic with other states in the Schengen area for commuter and other essential traffic. Restrictions for other travellers remain in place. See the Finnish Border Guard website for more information.
Passengers are allowed to transit through Helsinki Airport as long as they can verify acceptance at their final destination. Finavia strongly recommend that passengers use facemasks as they travel round airports in Finland, and Finnair have made the wearing of facemasks mandatory for passengers aged seven or over on their flights. Please check your carrier’s requirements before travelling.
Regular entry requirements
Visas
The rules for travelling or working in European countries changed on 1 January 2021:
you can travel to countries in the Schengen area for up to 90 days in any 180-day period without a visa. This applies if you travel as a tourist, to visit family or friends, to attend business meetings, cultural or sports events, or for short-term studies or training
if you are travelling to Finland and other Schengen countries without a visa, make sure your whole visit is within the 90-day limit. Visits to Schengen countries within the previous 180 days before you travel count towards your 90 days
to stay longer, to work or study, for business or for other reasons, you will need to meet the Finnish government’s entry requirements. Check with the Finnish Embassy what type of visa and/or work permit you may need
if you stay in Finland with a residence permit or long-stay visa, this does not count towards your 90-day visa-free limit
Any time you spent in Finland or other Schengen countries before 1 January 2021 does not count towards your 90-day visa-free limit.
At Finnish border control, you may need to queue in separate lanes from EU, EEA and Swiss citizens.
Check your passport is stamped if you enter or exit the Schengen area through Finland as a visitor. Border guards will use passport stamps to check you’re complying with the 90-day visa-free limit for short stays in the Schengen area. If relevant entry or exit stamps are not in your passport, border guards will presume that you have overstayed your visa-free limit.
You can show evidence of when and where you entered or exited the Schengen area, and ask the border guards to add this date and location in your passport. Examples of acceptable evidence include boarding passes and tickets.
You may also need to:
show a return or onward ticket
show you have enough money for your stay
If you are resident in Finland your passport should not be stamped. You should proactively show your proof of residence as well as your valid passport at Finnish border control. For further information, see our Living in Finland guide.
Passport validity
If you are planning to travel to an EU country (except Ireland), or Switzerland, Norway, Iceland, Liechtenstein, Andorra, Monaco, San Marino or Vatican City, you must meet the Schengen area rules.
Your passport must meet 2 requirements. It must be:
less than 10 years old on the day you enter (check the ‘date of issue’)
valid for at least 3 months after the day you plan to leave (check the ‘expiry date’)
We are asking the European Commission to clarify the 10-year rule. Their guidance for Schengen border guards may not be updated until the spring of 2022. Until then, for some Schengen countries your passport may need to be less than 10 years old during your whole visit, and the 3 months at the end of your visit may need to be within 10 years of your passport’s issue date.
Check both the issue date and the expiry date in your passport. If you renewed your passport early, extra months may have been added to its expiry date. This could affect the requirement for your passport to be less than 10 years old.
Contact your travel provider or embassy of the country you are visiting if you think that your passport does not meet both these requirements. Renew your passport if you need to.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are accepted for entry, airside transit and exit from Finland.
Entering Finland with children
Minors are permitted to enter Finland with an adult who is not their legal guardian (such as grandparents) but you are advised to carry a free-form letter of consent from the legal guardian(s) including their contact details.
If you have further queries about entry to Finland you can contact the Finnish Border Guard directly on their helpline (+358 295 420 100), open Monday to Friday between 8am and 4pm Finnish local time (GMT +2).
