There remain commercial options to return to the UK from Finland. If you live in the UK and are currently visiting Finland, you’re strongly advised to return now by commercial means. Don’t run the risk of getting stranded.
UK special charter flights will only operate for priority countries where commercial flights are not possible. You should not assume that these flights will become available in countries where commercial routes are operating. Please do not contact the contracted travel management company if no flight is advertised here.
Commercial flight options
Finnair currently operate twice-daily flights to London, but these could change at short notice. Finnair currently require passengers over the age of seven to wear facemasks on boarding the aircraft and for the duration of the flight. You should check your carrier’s requirements before travelling. British nationals who wish to leave Finland should contact their travel operator to make arrangements to do so as soon as possible.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK.
For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Your journey home: re-entering the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK. You:
need to provide your journey and contact details up to 48 hours before you’re due to arrive in the UK
are not allowed to leave the place you’re staying for the first 14 days you’re in the UK except in very limited situations (known as ‘self-isolating’)
See also the list of people who are exempt from the border rules.
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) also provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
If you cannot leave Finland
If you cannot leave Finland at this time, see advice on staying in Finland during coronavirus.
See more information and advice about staying where you are if you cannot return to the UK.
