

Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. You should remain vigilant at all times.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Finland
Terrorist attacks in Finland cannot be ruled out.
Attacks could be indiscriminate, including in places visited by foreigners. In 2017, two people were killed and several were stabbed in an incident in Turku.
Crime
Protecting your belongings
Tourists may be targeted by pickpockets in the tourist season in crowded areas. Take precautions and keep your personal belongings, including passports and money, safe.
Laws and cultural differences
Illegal drugs and prison sentences
Do not use, buy or carry illegal drugs. Possessing even the smallest quantities can lead to up to 10 years imprisonment.
Transport risks
Road travel
If you are planning to drive in Finland, see information on driving abroad and read the RAC Finland guide.
You need a UK driving licence to drive in Finland.
Hire car companies often have stricter requirements for their customers, such as a year of driving experience, minimum age and holding an International Driving Permit.
You may need a UK sticker to drive your car outside the UK. Since 2021, UK stickers have replaced GB stickers. Check the government guidance on displaying stickers outside the UK for more information.
Drink-driving laws
Drink-driving is a serious offence in Finland, and you could be imprisoned if found guilty. The drink-drive limit in Finland is significantly lower than the limit in England.
Arctic travel
Most visiting British nationals travel safely around the Arctic each year. However, consular assistance and support to British nationals is limited by the capacity of national and local authorities. Make sure you have appropriate travel insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment or potential repatriation.
Before you visit:
consider the remote nature of certain destinations and access to medical facilities, search and rescue and evacuation options
have emergency plans in place, particularly if you are an independent traveller.
