Coronavirus guidance is being updated.
Read the Prime Minister’s statement for the latest information.

This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Finland as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Finland to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Finland
For information on entering Finland, see Entry Requirements
The Finnish authorities have declared a state of emergency, with legislation introducing a number of measures to limit the spread of the virus. These measures include more stringent controls on people arriving from abroad. See the Finnish Border Guard website for more details.
Travel around Finland is still permitted and restaurants, cafes and bars reopened on 1 June, subject to some restrictions.
Health
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Finland
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Finland, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
The Finnish Ministry of Health and Social Affairs has opened a Coronavirus hotline (open Monday – Friday, 0800 – 2100 and Saturday, 0900 – 1500) on +358 (0)2 95 535 535. The Finnish Institute for Health and Welfare has up to date information on Coronavirus in Finland.
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
