Coronavirus (COVID-19): stay up to date
Cases of coronavirus (COVID-19) have been confirmed in Finland. The Finnish authorities have introduced measures to limit the spread of the virus. For more information, see the Coronavirus page of this advice.
See coronavirus travel advice for guidance on international travel.
Sign up for email alerts for Finland travel advice.
The Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advises against all but essential travel to Finland and recommends that British nationals who wish to leave Finland contact their travel operator to make arrangements to do so as soon as possible. This is in response to the ongoing Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and in line with various controls and restrictions imposed by the Finnish authorities. British nationals in Finland should follow the advice of the Finnish authorities.
The Finnish authorities have declared a state of emergency in response to Coronavirus (COVID-19). Finnish borders will be closed initially between 19th March and 13th April to all non-resident foreign nationals entering the country, with some limited local exemptions. British residents should display an ID card or other proof of residence when arriving in Finland. Non-resident British nationals are permitted to enter Finland for limited essential or compassionate reasons with evidence for their travel, see the Finnish Border Guard website for more information. Passengers are allowed to transit through Helsinki Airport as long as they can verify acceptance at their final destination. Commercial means of returning to the UK by flight continue, but this may change at short notice. British nationals who wish to leave Finland should contact their travel operator to make arrangements to do so as soon as possible. See Coronavirus.
The rules on travel to EU countries will stay the same until 31 December 2020. This page will be updated with country-specific information for travellers to Finland as things change. Sign up for email alerts and view the latest updates for UK nationals travelling to and living in Europe.
Most visits to Finland are trouble-free.
If you’re living in or moving to Finland, visit our Living in Finland guide in addition to this travel advice.
Terrorist attacks in Finland can’t be ruled out. See Terrorism
If you need to contact the emergency services call 112.
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.
The Overseas Business Risk service offers information and advice for British companies operating overseas on how to manage political, economic, and business security-related risks.
You should take out comprehensive travel and medical insurance before you travel. For information on the European Health Insurance Card see Health.
