Coronavirus
Coronavirus (COVID-19) The New Zealand Government has announced temporary restrictions on travellers in response to coronavirus (COVID-19). As of 2359 local time on 19 March 2020, most foreign travellers can no longer enter New Zealand. New Zealand citizens, permanent residents, residents with valid travel conditions, and their immediate family (partner or spouse, legal guardian, and dependent children under the age of 24) travelling with the New Zealand citizen can still come to New Zealand.
The New Zealand Government has announced, with strict health and onward flight criteria, the ability for travellers to transit NZ; this ability to transit may change at short notice and is only available for a short period. Further information can be obtained from calling the consular team 24/7 on +64 (0) 4 924 2888, select option 2 during working hours and option 4 out of hours; the local UK High Commission or Embassy consular contact numbers in all countries will connect to the same team. We will share further information on the British High Commission’s Facebook and Twitter sites when available.
Returning residents and citizens will be required isolate themselves for 14 days upon arrival.
See New Zealand Government and New Zealand Immigrationwebsites for the latest information.
New Zealand has implemented a number of measures aimed at containing the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19) in New Zealand. Further information on these and the wider situation in New Zealand is available from the New Zealand Government and New Zealand Ministry of Health websites.
British Nationals already in New Zealand should follow the New Zealand guidance to self-isolate for 14 days on arrival – see New Zealand Ministry of Health website. You should contact your insurance company and airline for the latest travel information, and contact i-SITE if accommodation is needed.
If a British National is required to self-isolate in New Zealand and does not do so, they may be detained and may face deportation.
On 16 March 2020, the Cook Islands introduced a requirement for any national wishing to enter the Cook Islands to self-isolate for 14 days in New Zealand prior to travel to the Cook Islands. The measure is currently due to remain in place until 18 April 2020.
If you’re unable to leave New Zealand and your visa is nearing expiry contact the New Zealand authorities as soon as possible. See Immigration New Zealand .
Given the fast changing situation, you should check the latest entry requirements for your destination on the New Zealand Immigration website or check with your airline before you travel.
There have been no confirmed cases of coronavirus (COVID-19) in the Cook Islands, Tokalau, or Niue. The Cook Islands has introduced a requirement for any national wishing to enter the Cook Islands to self-isolate for 14 days in New Zealand prior to travel to the Cook Islands. This came into force on 16 March 2020 and will remain in place until 18 April 2020.
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
Preparing for travel
At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC). ###Other health risks
Mosquito borne viruses, including dengue, chikungunya and Zika, have been reported in the Cook Islands, Niue and Tokelau (although there have been no reported cases of Zika virus within the last 9 months). You should take suitable steps to avoid being bitten by mosquitoes. The type of mosquito that is able to spread these viruses isn’t normally found on mainland New Zealand.
Research has shown that asthma sufferers may be more at risk of an attack in New Zealand and sufferers should be suitably prepared.
Local medical care
Under a reciprocal health agreement, UK nationals who live in the UK and who are on a short-term visit to New Zealand are eligible for immediately necessary healthcare under the health system on the same terms as citizens of New Zealand. This extends, unusually, to pre-hospital care including air or road ambulance transportation. You should show your UK passport when requested.
Despite this reciprocal agreement and the Accident Compensation Commission you should make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation.
Medical facilities in the Cook Islands and the islands of Niue and Tokelau are limited. In the event of a medical emergency, evacuation to mainland New Zealand is likely to be the only option for treatment. Make sure your insurance policy covers this eventuality.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 111 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
