Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

The New Zealand Government has announced temporary restrictions on travellers in response to coronavirus (COVID-19).
Flights
Most commercial flights from New Zealand to the UK have now been suspended, and flight availability is extremely limited.
We are aware of availability on Air New Zealand flights connecting with British Airways in Los Angeles. We understand that the recently-announced US immigration ban will not affect transit through Los Angeles International Airport (LAX) for British Nationals travelling from New Zealand. We will advise as soon as possible if we are notified otherwise, or if there are any further changes to US border policy. You should check the travel advice for the USA for the full detail on transit restrictions.
If you have, or can find, somewhere to stay in New Zealand you may wish to consider staying put for the period of New Zealand’s lockdown.
If you cannot leave New Zealand at this time, you should:
follow the advice of local authorities, including local measures to help minimise your risk of exposure to coronavirus.
find accommodation that’s suitable for your needs. As part of the response to the COVID-19 pandemic, the New Zealand Temporary Accommodation Service is working with other government agencies to assist in providing temporary accommodation to those required to self-isolate who are unable to do so in their own homes or are travellers visiting New Zealand and do not already have suitable self-isolation accommodation arranged. There is no requirement to have recently arrived in New Zealand. To register for this service, call +64 (0)508 754 163.
keep in regular contact with family and friends at home, so they know you are safe and well.
See more information and advice about staying where you are if you cannot return to the UK.
UK charter flights
Between 24 April and 2 May, the UK is operating 5 charter flights from New Zealand to help British tourists, short term visitors and their direct dependants to return to the UK.
Flights are departing Auckland on 24, 28 April and 2 May and Christchurch on 26 and 30 April, flying to London Heathrow via Hong Kong. While transit services have been suspended in Hong Kong for all commercial flights, we have arranged special transit access for these flights only. Departure time for all flights is 1:40pm.
These flights are now open to all British travellers remaining in New Zealand. If you would like to travel, please register with our travel partner Corporate Travel Management (CTM) through their online portal:
register to book Auckland flights
register to book Christchurch flights
Once you have registered, CTM will contact you to confirm whether you have secured a booking. If you are not able to complete your booking online, then please email us at UKinNZ.COVIDResponse@fco.gov.uk and we will pass on your details.
You will need to make your own arrangements for transport to the airport. Under current New Zealand Government restrictions, you should take the most direct route and carry proof of your onward international travel. Domestic travel is only permitted within 24 hours of a confirmed international flight. CTM can assist with domestic flights, car hire or bus bookings within New Zealand to get you to the airport, and will contact you about your requirements once you have a confirmed booking on a charter flight.
Do not make domestic travel arrangements until you have had an email from CTM to confirm your flight arrangements.
If you have a confirmed booking but are unable to travel for any reason, let us know as early as possible. We will aim to move you to a later flight. If you are unable to take a later flight, we will issue you a refund, and offer your seat to another traveller.
Note:
to be eligible to take these flights, you must be normally resident in the UK. Eligibility, including your address in the UK, will be checked before tickets are issued
the cost of the flight is £800 per person including children (infants up to 2 years old are free). You will be asked for your credit card details when you register with CTM, but will not be charged until you have confirmed seat
you will not be able to travel if you are displaying any symptoms of coronavirus (COVID-19). The plane will be fully loaded, there will be no middle spare seat or PPE provided. Our priority is for as many British Nationals to fly home as possible. Passengers showing coronavirus symptoms will not be permitted to board. The airline will carry out temperature checks on passengers before boarding. You will be asked to fill in a health questionnaire on-board in advance of your Hong Kong transit.
passengers will be responsible for making their own onward domestic travel arrangements on arrival in the UK. Passengers can disembark as normal and use public transport, as long as they have no symptoms, and go home by the quickest route. Airport staff will be able to direct arriving passengers to the available transport options. Once in the airport passengers should observe social distancing guidance wherever possible.
If you have any questions, or are unsure of whether to travel, contact our team at UKinNZ.COVIDResponse@fco.gov.uk or CTM, who will be able to advise you.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. If you believe you may be eligible for this support for charter flights, contact UKinNZ.COVIDResponse@fco.gov.uk.
You may find it helpful to read our guide to eligibility and the booking process for special charter flights.
Travelling to the airport
On 2 April, the New Zealand government announced that foreign nationals in New Zealand could use public or private transport to travel to the airport, to connect with international flights to their home country. You can only travel within New Zealand for the purpose of reaching the airport, and you must have a ticket for an outbound international flight before leaving your location. Domestic travel is only permitted within 24 hours of a confirmed international flight.
Several criteria apply to domestic travel to get international flights home. See the New Zealand government’s COVID-19 website for full details. Check details of public transport in Auckland and public transport in Christchurch.
Arrival in the UK
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Visas
If you are unable to leave New Zealand and your visa is nearing expiry, you should contact the New Zealand authorities as soon as possible. See New Zealand Government and New Zealand Immigration websites for the latest information.
Further information
If you’re in New Zealand, you’re encouraged to register your details with the British High Commission. In completing this form you will receive regular information about the situation in New Zealand through the coronavirus lockdown, including on the status of commercial and charter flights. We will be updating regularly through the British High Commission Twitter and Facebook.
See more information and advice about staying where you are if you cannot return to the UK.
