

Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in New Zealand
Terrorist attacks in New Zealand cannot be ruled out.
Crime
Crime levels are generally low, but street crime happens in major towns and cities. Thieves may target unattended vehicles, especially hire cars and camper vans in major tourist areas (the Coromandel Peninsula, Rotorua and Queenstown), as well as hotel rooms. You should:
avoid leaving possessions in unattended vehicles even if out of sight
not leave valuables in hotel rooms
use the hotel safe if possible
keep passports, travellers cheques and credit cards separate
Laws and cultural differences
Illegal drugs and prison sentences
Importing illegal drugs could result in a prison sentence of up to 12 years.
LGBT+ travellers
New Zealand has an established tradition of tolerance towards same-sex relations, but there are still isolated incidents of homophobia-related crimes. LGBT+ travellers should be aware of local sensitivities, particularly when visiting rural areas. Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Outdoor activities and adventure tourism
Extreme sports
British nationals have been involved in tragic accidents while doing extreme sports activities. If you’re taking part in extreme sports, check that:
the company is well established
your insurance covers you
Visiting remote areas
If you are planning to visit a remote area, check with the local tourist authorities for advice before you leave. Register your details with a visitor information centre or leave details with family or friends. Weather conditions can quickly become dangerous in some coastal and exposed areas. Monitor regional weather forecasts.
Transport risks
Road travel
If you are planning to drive in New Zealand, see information on driving abroad and read the Road Code.
You can use a UK photocard driving licence to drive in New Zealand for up to 12 months. You can exchange an old-style paper licence if you need to.
Highways can be narrow, winding and hilly. Car rental companies should provide you with information, or read what’s different about driving in New Zealand.
Motor vehicle insurance
You should get private motor vehicle insurance. Accident victims do not have a legal right to sue a third party in the event of an accident in New Zealand. The Accident Compensation Commission (ACC) helps pay for your care if you’re injured as a result of an accident. The ACC only covers the cost of treatment in New Zealand but delayed travel or loss of income in a third country is not covered. Check you have adequate travel and accident insurance.
Extreme weather and natural disasters
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards.
Natural disasters can happen in New Zealand. If there is a disaster, follow the advice of the local authorities and the National Emergency Management Agency. For more information, see the government’s Get Ready website.
Earthquakes
New Zealand is in a major earthquake zone. Tsunamis can happen along the coastlines. You should:
familiarise yourself with safety procedures
take note of instructions in hotel rooms, public areas and on your local emergency services social media pages
monitor any warnings or updates from the National Emergency Management Agency
For more information about what to do before, during and after an earthquake, see the New Zealand government’s Get Ready advice for earthquakes.
If there is a tsunami warning, the Local Civil Defence Emergency Management Groups will have tsunami evacuation zone maps and advice.
Flooding
Flooding and landslides can happen, resulting in road closures and infrastructure damage.
Volcanic eruptions
There are several active volcanoes on the North Island of New Zealand. Get local advice when visiting remote areas about where there might be volcanic activity.
