Coronavirus guidance is being updated.
Read the Prime Minister’s address for the latest information.

This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in New Zealand as a visitor, if you are unable to Return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in New Zealand to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Registering with the British High Commission
If you’re in New Zealand, you’re encouraged to register your details with the British High Commission. In completing this form you will receive regular information about the situation in New Zealand through the coronavirus lockdown, including on the status of commercial and charter flights. We will be updating regularly through the British High Commission Twitter and Facebook.
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact the British High Commission.
Moving around in New Zealand
There are local travel restrictions in place in New Zealand. For information on entering or transiting through New Zealand, see Entry requirements
The New Zealand Government has introduced a four-level national COVID-19 alert system. New Zealand will stay at Alert Level 3 before a further review and Alert Level decision on 11 May 2020.
Level 3 response measures still require people to remain at home, other than for essential personal movement. Some educational facilities and non-essential businesses are permitted to open. Level 3 does not allow increased social activity – bubbles can be expanded to close family, isolated people or care givers, but should be kept small.
Full details on the New Zealand Government’s coronavirus national response alert system and the requirements for each level can be found on the New Zealand Government COVID-19 website.
A State of National Emergency is in place. The status of the State of National Emergency can be found on the New Zealand Government COVID-19 website.
Visas
If you are unable to leave New Zealand and your visa is nearing expiry, you should contact the New Zealand authorities as soon as possible. See New Zealand Government and New Zealand Immigration websites for the latest information.
If you hold a work, student, or visitor visa with an expiry date of 1 April 2020 or earlier, and are unable to leave New Zealand, you must apply online for a new visa. An interim visa will be issued.
If you hold a work, student, visitor, limited or interim visa with an expiry date of 2 April to 9 July 2020 inclusive, and were in New Zealand on 2 April 2020, your visa will be automatically extended to 25 September 2020. Confirmation of extensions will be emailed to all visa holders.
Health
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
If you are concerned that you may have coronavirus (COVID-19) symptoms, you can get health advice and information by calling Healthline (free) on 0800 358 5453. British nationals visiting New Zealand will have to pay to access a GP. Coronavirus (COVID-19) tests and treatment are provided free of charge.
View Health for further details on healthcare in New Zealand.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in New Zealand and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. This is a last resort option for those most in need and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Further information
Further information on these and the wider situation in New Zealand is available from the New Zealand Government and New Zealand Ministry of Health websites.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
