There is an ongoing outbreak of coronavirus (COVID-19) in New Zealand. The New Zealand Government has announced temporary restrictions on travellers in response to coronavirus (COVID-19). As of 2359 local time on 19 March 2020, most foreign travellers can no longer enter New Zealand. New Zealand citizens, permanent residents, residents with valid travel conditions, and their immediate family (partner or spouse, legal guardian, and dependent children under the age of 24) travelling with the New Zealand citizen can still come to New Zealand.
The New Zealand Government has announced, with strict health and onward flight criteria, the ability for travellers to transit NZ; this ability to transit may change at short notice and is only available for a short period. More information on this is available from Immigration New Zealand. We will share further information on the British High Commission’s Facebook and Twitter sites when available.
Returning New Zealand residents and citizens will be required to isolate themselves for 14 days upon arrival in New Zealand.
A number of airline operators have announced that international flights to/from New Zealand have been suspended or will be suspended shortly. British Nationals already in New Zealand should contact their airline, travel provider, and insurance company for the latest information. Those who want to return to the UK soon should take account of the fast moving situation and plan accordingly.
If you are unable to leave New Zealand and your visa is nearing expiry, you should contact the New Zealand authorities as soon as possible.
See New Zealand Government and New Zealand Immigrationwebsites for the latest information.
New Zealand has implemented a number of measures aimed at containing the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19) in New Zealand. Further information on these and the wider situation in New Zealand is available from the New Zealand Government and New Zealand Ministry of Health websites.
British Nationals already in New Zealand should follow the New Zealand guidance to self-isolate for 14 days from date of arrival – see New Zealand Ministry of Health website. You should contact your insurance company and airline for the latest travel information, and contact [i-SITE(https://isite.nz/) if accommodation is needed.
Notwithstanding the current temporary border closure announced by the New Zealand Government, around 200,000 British nationals visit New Zealand every year. Most visits are trouble-free.
You don’t need a visa to enter New Zealand as a visitor for up to 6 months, but you will need to get a New Zealand Electronic Travel Authority (NZeTA) before you travel. The New Zealand Government has though introduced a temporary border closure at this time. See Visas
If you’re visiting remote areas of New Zealand, make sure your journey details are known to local authorities or friends/relatives before setting out. Weather conditions can quickly become treacherous, especially in winter. See Local travel
Terrorist attacks in New Zealand can’t be ruled out. See Terrorism
There’s no British representation on the Cook Islands, or the islands of Niue or Tokelau. You should contact the New Zealand High Commission if you need consular assistance on the Cook Islands or Niue. If you need consular assistance on Tokelau, contact the British High Commission in Wellington
On 16 March 2020, the Cook Islands introduced a requirement for any national wishing to enter the Cook Islands to self-isolate for 14 days in New Zealand prior to travel to the Cook Islands. The measure is currently due to remain in place until 18 April 2020.
The Overseas Business Risk service offers information and advice for British companies operating overseas on how to manage political, economic, and business security-related risks.
Take out comprehensive travel and medical insurance before you travel. Make sure this covers you for all activities you plan to do while in New Zealand, including manual labour if you’re backpacking; and adventure sports like bungee jumping, diving and paragliding.
