Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for COUNTRY on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Uzbekistan.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
International travel
Commercial flights to and from the UK to Uzbekistan have been suspended and flights to and from some other European countries have also been suspended. Check with your travel company or airline for the latest information.
Travel in Uzbekistan
Civilian airports are open but scheduled international passenger flights are now very limited. Some domestic flights are operating.
Public transport in cities has resumed and train travel between regions is now operating.
Care should be taken if using taxis as some operators might not be fully complying with COVID-19 hygiene measures.
Under measures introduced by the Uzbek authorities, anyone subject to quarantine or self-isolation who breaches such controls is liable to a minimum fine of 11 Million UZS (approximately £900) or up to 10 years imprisonment.
Accommodation
Hotels, motels and guest houses have reopened (but are subject to special health and safety rules) following the easing of restrictive measures.
Public places and services
Persons aged over 65 are recommended to remain in self-isolation and not to visit public spaces. Large group gatherings in any public place are limited.
From 15 August, all shopping malls, clothing markets, restaurants, cafes, beauty salons and larger shops, as well as gyms, swimming pools, private kindergartens and education centres have reopened.
You must wear a face mask while outside – you may be fined (up to approximately £100) if you do not comply with this regulation.
Healthcare in Uzbekistan
For contact details of English-speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
If you think you have COVID-19 symptoms, you should call the 1003 hotline number of the Ministry of Health of Uzbekistan. Please note, however, operators at the hotline will speak only Russian or Uzbek.
Individuals who are showing COVID-19 symptoms will undergo testing at government facilities.
From 5 July, those testing positive for COVID-19 will be placed into Red, Yellow and Green categories. Those with a light form of coronavirus infection (asymptomatic) will be categorised as Green. Those with medium symptoms (e.g. high temperature) will be categorised as Yellow, and those with serious symptoms as Red.
Those categorised as Green or Yellow will be allowed to have treatment at home if this is approved by a doctor and will be required to comply with existing sanitary-hygiene rules. Those categorised as Green or Yellow and where treatment at home is not possible will be hospitalised in a dedicated government facility, but released after 10 days if no further symptoms are observed.
Those who have been in contact with a person who tests positive for COVID-19 will no longer be automatically quarantined but required to self-isolate for 14-days and subject to medical monitoring.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Uzbekistan
As information is available about the national vaccination programme, this page will be updated.
The Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) is the UK authority responsible for assessing the safety, quality and efficacy of vaccines. It has authorised the Pfizer/BioNTech, Oxford/AstraZeneca and Moderna vaccines for temporary supply and use in the UK. Find out more about MHRA approval for these vaccines.
British nationals living overseas should seek medical advice from their local healthcare provider in the country where they reside. Information about vaccines used in other national programmes, including regulatory status, should be available from the local authorities. This list of Stringent Regulatory Authorities recognised by the World Health Organisation may also be a useful source of additional information. Find out more information about the COVID-19 vaccines on the World Health Organization COVID-19 vaccines page.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
The Government’s official website for coronavirus information in Uzbekistan can be found at www.coronavirus.uz. An official telegram channel is also available (https://t.me/koronavirusinfouz). Please note that these resources are available in Uzbek or Russian.
The Ministry of Health of Uzbekistan COVID-19 hotline number is 1003.
