The information on this page covers the most common types of travel and reflects the UK government’s understanding of the rules currently in place. Unless otherwise stated, this information is for travellers using a full ‘British Citizen’ passport.
The authorities in the country or territory you’re travelling to are responsible for setting and enforcing the rules for entry. If you’re unclear about any aspect of the entry requirements, or you need further reassurance, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
You should also consider checking with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Entry rules in response to coronavirus (COVID-19)
Entry to Uzbekistan
British nationals arriving from the UK are now permitted to enter Uzbekistan.
The Uzbekistan Special Republican Commission is monitoring the epidemiological situation in foreign countries, and has categorised them as Red, Yellow and Green. The UK is currently categorised as Red. This categorisation is subject to constant review and can change at short notice.
Anyone arriving in Uzbekistan on a direct flight from countries categorised as green will not be required to quarantine or self-isolate.
British nationals can only enter Uzbekistan providing they have a negative Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) test for Coronavirus no more than 72 hours before their arrival into the Country, including passengers who have vaccinated. British passport holders can enter Uzbekistan for stays of up to 30 days without requiring a visa.
Passengers who take a PCR test on arrival and who test positive will be quarantined for 14 days at a state facility or a dedicated hotel at their own expense. Passengers may also be subject to temperature checks on arrival into the Country.
Passengers travelling or arriving from any Red or Yellow category countries, which currently includes the UK, are subject to a mandatory period of 14 days self-isolation on arrival.
Tourists arriving to Uzbekistan from the UK on an organised tour can be exempt from the mandatory 14 days self-isolation requirement on arrival if they are issued with a special exemption voucher. British Nationals should seek advice from their Travel Agent before making any travel arrangements.
You should not use the NHS testing service to get a test in order to facilitate your travel to another country. You should arrange to take a private test.
Current restrictions are very fluid and are being assessed and monitored on a regular basis and are subject to change at very short notice.
Transiting Uzbekistan
British nationals are now permitted to transit Uzbekistan airside providing they meet the requirements for the country of their next destination.
Testing/Screening on arrival
Any person showing symptoms including high fever, coughing or respiratory difficulties will be required to undergo a test for COVID-19 and may be isolated at government facility (or approved hotel with medical and security controls in place) at their own cost.
Quarantine requirements
Eligible visitors arriving in Uzbekistan from a country categorised as Green or who have been in one of these countries 14 days prior to arrival will not be subject to any mandatory quarantine or self-isolation period unless they display symptoms on arrival.
No track and trace app is currently available. However, all visitors arriving into the country are registered by Uzbek Authorities. If arriving from a country categorised as Yellow or Red, which currently includes the UK, it is mandatory to provide the address where you will self-isolate for the 14-day period.
Tourists arriving to Uzbekistan on an organised tour can be exempt from mandatory 14 days self-isolation requirement, if they are issued with special exemption voucher. British Nationals should seek advice from their Travel Agent before making any travel arrangements.
Testing on departure
All persons departing Uzbekistan by air are required to undergo temperature checks. Anyone showing high temperature and/or other COVID-19 symptoms will be denied boarding. Depending on the destination country of the flight, the authorities of that country may also require other pre-boarding checks in addition to those conducted by the Uzbek authorities.
Regular entry requirements
Visas
If you have a British citizen passport you can enter Uzbekistan as a visitor for stays of up to 30 days without a visa.
If you’re travelling on a different type of British passport, are travelling for a purpose other than tourism or business, or intending to stay longer than 30 days, you should check entry requirements with the Embassy of the Republic of Uzbekistan in London.
If you’re entering Uzbekistan on an Uzbek visa make sure that you check it once issued and carefully note the date of expiry and the number of entries permitted.
Don’t overstay your visa, or exceed your permitted duration of stay, even for a very short period. Any traveller found to have overstayed will face a fine and possibly deportation. It is not always easy or possible to extend your stay or a visa if you wish to remain in the country for longer than you had originally intended. If you are travelling overland, make sure you arrive at your intended border crossing in good time before your period of stay or visa expires.
For further information contact the Embassy of the Republic of Uzbekistan in London.
Registration
You must register within 3 days of arrival. Saturdays and Sundays count as part of the three day period. If you are staying in a hotel, you will be asked for your passport at check-in and it will be retained for a short period. Hotel staff will complete the registration paperwork and return your passport to you.
If staying in a private house, your host should register you with their local district OVIR (Department of Foreign Travel & Exit (they also deal with the registration of Foreign Citizens)) or on the electronic registration system Emehmon. If you travel to another city and plan to stay for longer than three days, you will need to register again. You must follow this procedure, as a full record of your whereabouts whilst in Uzbekistan is required upon departure. Visitors who are unable to account for their whereabouts could be fined and possibly deported.
Tourists transiting Uzbekistan in recreational vehicles or staying in tents/camping are responsible for their own registration. They should register online via the electronic registration system Emehmon within three days of arrival. During the online registration process there will be a tourist tax charge for each day of their stay. At the moment tourist tax can only be paid online by Uzbek debit card in local currency, payable by credit or debit card, therefore tourists should seek assistance from hotels or local tour operators.
Passport validity
Your passport should be valid for at least 3 months beyond your date of entry to Uzbekistan.
Dual nationality
Dual nationality is not recognised in Uzbekistan.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are accepted for entry (with a valid Uzbek visa), direct airside transit and exit from Uzbekistan. If your ETD has been issued in Tashkent, you’ll need an exit visa from the OVIR (Department of Foreign Travel & Exit) before you can travel out of Uzbekistan. This process can take at least 5 working days.
Customs declarations
You should fill out two copies of the customs declaration form on arrival. Make sure that both copies are signed and stamped by Customs officials. You will need to present one to the customs authorities as you enter the country and produce the other on departure. Any currency or valuables found in your possession and not declared on your customs declaration form may be confiscated.
Travelling with medicines
If you enter Uzbekistan with medicines, whether prescription or non-prescription, you should check in advance the list of prohibited medicines and the legal quantities of medicines that are allowed to be imported. You can find information on the website of the State Customs Committee of Uzbekistan.
You should carry a doctor’s prescription if you intend to travel with prescription medicines and declare the items on your customs declaration form. Some non-prescription medicines in the UK cause problems on entry into Uzbekistan, including codeine. Possession of these items can lead to administrative or criminal proceedings if you don’t have a prescription, or if you’re carrying more than you need for the visit and don’t declare them on arrival. Issues have most frequently been reported at land borders.
Drones
Unauthorised import and use of drones in Uzbekistan will attract fines, detention and confiscation of equipment. Licenses to import drones must be obtained prior to arrival. The following link has more information on licensing requirements (only available in Russian).
