At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For more information on the rules in Uzbekistan, see Health. If you need further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the Uzbek Embassy in London.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC)
Coronavirus
As at 16 March 2020 there have been six confirmed cases of coronavirus (COVID-19) in Uzbekistan. The Uzbek authorities have strengthened sanitary and epidemiological controls at ports of entry and border crossing points.
As of the morning of 16 March 2020, all commercial flights in and out of the country have been suspended. Any UK nationals who have booked flights including those already in Uzbekistan, should contact the airline directly, or their travel agent, to discuss the implications of this measure. In addition all passenger road and rail traffic to and from Uzbekistan has been suspended and the Uzbekistan – Tajikistan border is closed.
The Uzbek Government are trying to organise charter flights to repatriate Uzbek citizens from Europe. If these flights go ahead, they have offered to make spaces available to British nationals currently in Uzbekistan who want to return to the UK. It is by no means certain that it will be possible to arrange these flights, given the increasing number of restrictions on air travel world-wide. Nor do we yet know exactly when- or to where - in Europe they would fly.
Any British citizens currently in Uzbekistan who wish to take advantage of these possible flights should send full passport details as soon as possible to Ukin.Uzbekistan@fco.gov.uk. Space on these flights is likely to be limited and we cannot guarantee that seats will be available for all. The Uzbek authorities will make a charge for seats on these flights.
The Uzbekistan authorities have also stated that:
The entry into Uzbekistan of citizens of China, the Republic of Korea, Italy, Iran, France and Spain, and persons permanently residing in these countries, has been suspended. Additionally, individuals of any nationality who have visited these countries in the past 14 days will not be permitted entry to Uzbekistan.
British nationals arriving in Uzbekistan and who have visited the United Kingdom, the USA, Germany, Singapore, Hong Kong, Macao or Taiwan within 14 days of arrival are subject to home isolation/quarantine. You will be subject to monitoring and required to remain at your place of residence/stay for up to 14 days, not allowed to visit public places and required to avoid contact with other people excluding family members.
British nationals arriving from Thailand, Azerbaijan, Malaysia or UAE are subject to 14 days medical supervision at their place of stay/residence and are advised not to visit public or crowded places and to limit contacts with other people. Arrivals from these countries are subject to medical monitoring by medical personnel during the 14-day period. This will include physical examination, measurement of body temperature and medical consultations by telephone. If symptoms of acute respiratory viral infections are detected, the person will be hospitalised in a medical institution for the purpose of diagnosis and treatment.
British nationals arriving from Bahrain, Kuwait, Armenia, Belarus, Oman, Pakistan, Georgia, Czech Republic, Iraq, Lebanon, Canada, Lithuania, Estonia, Romania, Greece, Netherlands, Norway, Austria, Denmark or Sweden are subject to remote monitoring of health status (telephone calls). Arrivals from these countries have the right to travel around Uzbekistan (subject to informing medical institutions of their movement for medical supervision). They are advised not to visit crowded places and limit contacts with other people. Medical personnel will conduct remote monitoring for a period of 24 days from arrival in Uzbekistan
Under the measures introduced by the Uzbek authorities, any person subject to quarantine or self-isolation who breaches these controls is liable to a minimum fine of 11 Million UZS (approx £900) or up to 3 years imprisonment.
These measures may be subject to change. Entry requirements may vary and further restrictions could be applied at short notice by the Uzbek authorities.
Further advice on coronavirus is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
Medical treatment
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 103 (non-English speaking) and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
The quality of medical care in Uzbekistan is generally poor. Most hospitals are badly-equipped and unhygienic, with a limited supply of drugs. There is no guarantee that equipment will have been properly sterilised, especially in rural hospitals. You should avoid all but basic treatment or essential treatment in the event of an emergency. Medical insurance companies usually refer complaints of a more serious nature to hospitals in Europe or New Delhi.
The reciprocal healthcare agreement between the UK and Uzbekistan terminated on 1 January 2016.
Air quality
Air quality in the Karakalpakstan and Khorezm regions has deteriorated as a result of storms over the Aral Sea bringing salt, dust and pollutants into the air. As for any acute deterioration in outdoor air quality due to weather events, you should minimise your individual exposure to external air by staying indoors in an air-conditioned environment as much as possible, with windows and doors closed and as well sealed as possible. Wash all fruit, vegetables and other foods which might have been exposed, and regularly damp dust all indoor surfaces, washing your hands afterwards. It is unclear when the air quality will improve; you’re advised to monitor local reports and weather forecasts for the latest information and local advice.
