

Uzbekistan has a secular constitution. Most Uzbek people are Muslims. You should respect local traditions, customs, laws and religions at all times and be aware of your actions to ensure that they do not offend other cultures or religious beliefs, especially during the holy month of Ramadan or if you intend to visit religious areas. See Travelling during Ramadan
You should carry your passport with you at all times as this is a legal requirement in Uzbekistan. The police often carry out checks.
Possession of drugs is illegal. There is a ban on the sale of alcohol and tobacco to those under 20. Prison sentences can be lengthy. While prison conditions have reportedly improved, reports of widespread hepatitis and tuberculosis and allegations of mistreatment of some prisoners by officials remain a concern.
Homosexuality is illegal under Uzbek law and is still very much frowned upon socially. You should take care over public displays of affection. See our information and advice page for the LGBT community before you travel.
Photography
Any form of photography can upset the authorities, particularly photographs of government buildings including the Palace of Forums in Tashkent and sometimes in local bazaars not normally visited by tourists. While restrictions have been relaxed recently, you should check before using a camera, especially near airports, border checkpoints, military barracks, bridges, police stations and metro stations.
Drones
Unauthorised import and use of drones in Uzbekistan will attract fines, detention and confiscation of equipment. Licenses to import drones must be obtained prior to arrival. The following link has more information on licensing requirements (only available in Russian).
Adoption in Uzbekistan
The adoption of a child from Uzbekistan by British nationals who are no longer habitually resident in the UK is not possible. Under local law Uzbekistan authorities do not accept the ‘no objection’ letter issued by the British Embassy in Tashkent as sufficient for the purpose of adoption.
Please note that the ‘no objection’ letter has the sole function of confirming that the British national(s) in question are no longer habitually resident in the UK. As the child is not being adopted under British adoption legislation, the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office and British consulates are unable to have any further role in the matter.
There is no scope or provision to amend the letter, which is designed for the specific purpose stated above. It is not the role of the British Embassy to agree whether or not the applicants are suitable or eligible to adopt the child, or whether the child is adoptable.
