Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

There are currently no commercial options available to return to the UK from Uzbekistan. All commercial flights in and out of the country have been suspended.
We know this is concerning for British people trying to leave Uzbekistan. The UK government is working closely with airlines, the Uzbek authorities and other governments to make sure options are available for you to return to the UK as soon as possible.
Flights
An Uzbekistan Airways special commercial flight from Tashkent to Seoul is planned for 10 May. There are direct onward flights from Seoul to the UK (twice weekly operated by Korean Air to London Heathrow) and to other European destinations, plus indirect flights via Doha. Check with airlines directly as the information on departure flights are subject to change at short notice.
South Korean authorities will require evidence of onward travel from Seoul to final destination(s) and it will be passengers’ responsibility to arrange this. Refer to FCO Travel Advice on South Korea, which includes details of measures in place at Incheon International Airport to monitor transit passengers for symptoms of COVID-19.
The British Embassy in Tashkent has contacted all those who have registered their interest for outbound flights from Uzbekistan. Please continue to check this page and sign up to alerts from the Embassy’s social media accounts (Twitter and Facebook for further updates.
The British Embassy in Tashkent has also been made aware of the possibility of a special commercial Uzbekistan Airways flight from Tashkent to Frankfurt (or possibly Munich) on either Monday 11 or Thursday 14 May. We will contact all those registered with the embassy by e-mail on the evening of Saturday 9 May to determine interest in this flight.
Any British nationals who are interested in taking this yet to be confirmed flight, but who have not provided their details to the Embassy should send us an email as soon as possible. The British Embassy will be working over the course of this weekend to assist as many British Nationals and other eligible unrepresented nationals wishing to leave Uzbekistan, as necessary.
If the above flight is confirmed, it is important to note that the German authorities will require evidence of onward travel from Germany to final destination(s) and it will be passengers’ responsibility to arrange this. Please also refer to FCO Travel Advice for Germany.
What to do
If you cannot leave Uzbekistan at this time, you should:
follow the advice of local authorities, including local measures to help minimise your risk of exposure to coronavirus
find accommodation that’s suitable for your needs
keep in regular contact with family and friends at home, so they know you are safe and well
See Staying during coronavirus.
See more information and advice about staying where you are if you cannot return to the UK.
Future travel options
The UK government is working closely with airlines, the Uzbek authorities and other governments to make sure options are available for you to return to the UK as soon as possible.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK.
For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
This travel advice will be updated when departure options become available. Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British Embassy on Twitter and Facebook.
Your journey home
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Help and support
The Embassy cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone. This page will be updated when departure options become available. To get the latest information, sign up for travel advice email alerts.
Further information
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
