

Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Uzbekistan
Terrorists are likely to try to carry out attacks in Uzbekistan.
Attacks could be indiscriminate and happen anywhere. They could affect western interests and places visited by foreigners, such as:
transport hubs  
embassies  and government buildings
religious sites and places of worship   
sporting and cultural events   
shopping centres and crowded places
Examples of previous attacks include:
in 2022, rockets were fired from Afghanistan into southern Uzbekistan. Islamic State Khorasan Province (ISKP) claimed responsibility
in 2019, it was reported that 17 people were killed in an armed attack on a Tajik security checkpoint on the Uzbekistan-Tajikistan border. Islamic State Khorasan Province (ISKP) claimed responsibility
If you are travelling in areas where attacks have previously occurred, stay aware of your surroundings, keep up to date with local media reports and follow the advice of local authorities.
Political situation
Avoid demonstrations or large gatherings of people, which are likely to attract a heavy presence from security forces. Use caution and maintain a high level of security awareness, particularly in public places.
Crime
Pickpocketing and bag-snatching are common, especially in crowded places like bazaars and on public transport. Home burglaries and break-ins also happen, even in wealthier neighbourhoods.
Use caution and take measures to reduce your personal risk, such as:
keep sight of your belongings at all times 
be aware of thieves using distraction techniques 
avoid carrying all your valuables together in one place e.g. handbags or pockets
exercise a similar level of caution as you would in the UK
Laws and cultural differences
Personal ID
You must carry your passport with you at all times. This is a legal requirement in Uzbekistan, and the police often carry out checks. You can be fined or arrested for failing to do so.
Illegal drugs and prison sentences
Possession of drugs is illegal. You can get a long prison sentence if convicted. While prison conditions have reportedly improved, reports of widespread hepatitis and tuberculosis as well as allegations of mistreatment of some prisoners by officials remain a concern.
Alcohol laws
It is illegal to sell alcohol and tobacco to someone aged 20 or under.    
Taking photos in secure areas
Any form of photography can upset the authorities, particularly photographs of government buildings. This includes the Palace of Forums in Tashkent and sometimes local bazaars not normally visited by tourists. While restrictions have been relaxed recently, you should check before taking photos, especially near airports, border checkpoints, military barracks, bridges, police stations and metro stations.
Prohibited material  
It is prohibited to bring material into Uzbekistan that could be considered as undermining the state. This includes material which promotes war, terrorism, religious hatred or racism and pornographic content.
Social media 
Be careful when posting images of your visit on social media, particularly in relation to images or comments about public buildings, the Uzbek flag, national food or customs. Disrespectful content, including criticism of the government, could result in fines or detention.
Ramadan
Ramadan is a holy month for Muslims. The dates vary by year and country. Cafés and restaurants may amend their menus and be busy around fast-breaking (‘Iftar’). Areas around mosques are also likely to be busy around prayer times. Take particular care not to offend religious sensitivities at this time.
LGBT+ travellers
Same-sex relationships are illegal, not recognised and still frowned upon socially. You should refrain from showing affection in public.
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Money
The currency in Uzbekistan is the Uzbek so’m (or soum/som – UZS), and is not available in currency exchanges outside Uzbekistan.  
There are very few ATMs which accept international bank cards outside of the main cities. Bring enough cash for your entire stay, or withdraw cash from an ATM in a main city ahead of any planned travel to the regions. US dollars are the most easily exchanged foreign currency. Only change money through official exchange booths. It is illegal to change money on the black market, and there are harsh penalties. Official exchange booths will not accept damaged or marked bank notes, nor will they accept US dollars issued before 2013.  
Internationally issued credit cards are not widely accepted outside Tashkent and the main cities. Travellers cheques are not normally accepted.
Transport risks
Road travel
If you are planning to drive in Uzbekistan, see information on driving abroad.
Foreign nationals can drive their own car into Uzbekistan without paying import duties and taxes for up to 90 days. After the 90 days, daily fees will be applied. You must declare the car at the point of entry. You must carry your vehicle registration document and insurance for driving in Uzbekistan.
You can drive in Uzbekistan with a valid UK driving licence for 30 days. You’ll need to have both the 1968 version of the international driving permit (IDP) and your UK driving licence with you in the car. You cannot buy an IDP outside the UK, so get one before you travel.
You should get your licence and IDP translated into either Russian or Uzbek to make interaction with local authorities and traffic police easier. This is not a legal requirement.
Hire car companies often have stricter requirements for their customers, such as a year of driving experience, minimum age and holding an IDP.
Uzbekistan road laws require you:
to drive on the right
to wear seatbelts for drivers and all passengers
not to use a mobile phone while driving
Roads often have poor surfaces and bad lighting. Driving standards are below those in the UK and can be erratic.
Taxis and buses
Use licensed taxis whenever possible - this includes:
official taxis at the airport
taxis booked using apps like Yandex or My Taxi
Unlicensed taxis are still common, despite licensing laws. Many taxis do not have rear seatbelts, so you may want to request a taxi that has them.
Many buses and taxis in Uzbekistan run on compressed natural gas and safety regulations on these vehicles are often not followed. Where possible opt for modern vehicles.
Rail travel
Take similar precautions as you would in the UK. If you must travel overnight, keep valuables in a safe place. Do not leave your belongings in the compartment unattended. Lock the door from the inside. You’ll need to show your passport with a valid visa when booking train tickets.
Extreme weather and natural disasters
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards.
Earthquakes
Uzbekistan is in an active seismic zone. There are regular tremors.
The US Federal Emergency Management Agency has advice about what to do before, during and after an earthquake.
