Coronavirus guidance is being updated.
Read the Prime Minister’s statement for the latest information.

This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Uzbekistan as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Uzbekistan to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Up-to-date statistics on coronavirus cases in Uzbekistan are available from a dedicated Uzbekistan Government website - coronavirus.uz (in Uzbek and Russian only).
Moving around in Uzbekistan
Under measures introduced by the Uzbek authorities, anyone subject to quarantine or self-isolation who breaches such controls is liable to a minimum fine of 11 Million UZS (approximately £900) or up to 10 years imprisonment.
From 23 March, you must wear a face mask while outside – you may be fined (up to approximately £100) if you do not comply with this regulation.
The Uzbek authorities have eased some restrictive measures. The country has now been divided into red, yellow and green zones, with different restrictions in each. However, lockdown measures have been extended until 15 June in all regions, independently of their colour code.
Restrictions and rules continue to apply, including maintaining physical distance, wearing masks and working from home for a number of institutions. Supermarkets and bazaars mark out 2m distancing at checkouts, and temperatures are checked before entry. Entertainment venues, including restaurants (except for take-away meals), cafes, and gyms, remain closed. Restrictions on use of public transport (bus, taxi, metro) are in place.
Control on movement of personal cars between regions has been tightened. Inter-regional trips in personal cars are prohibited. An exception is made for the entry and exit from Tashkent city to the Tashkent region and vice versa.
These measures may be subject to change. Entry requirements may vary and further restrictions could be applied at short notice by the Uzbek authorities. See Entry requirements.
Health
For contact details of English-speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Uzbekistan.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Uzbekistan, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, you should contact your local British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephones numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
