The FCDO advises against all but essential travel to:
the whole of Uzbekistan based on the current assessment of COVID-19 risks.
Travel to Uzbekistan is subject to entry restrictions
From 21 December 2020 until 10 February 2021, British nationals either arriving directly from the UK or who have been in the UK in the last 14 days, are not permitted to travel to or to enter Uzbekistan. All other foreign nationals, with the exception of Uzbek nationals, who are arriving from the UK or who have visited the UK in the last 14 days are not permitted to enter the country either during this period.
See Entry requirements for more information before you plan to travel.
Preparing for your return journey to the UK
If you’re returning to the UK from overseas, you will need to:
provide your journey and contact details before you travel
check if you need to self-isolate on your return
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
If you’re planning travel to Uzbekistan, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCDO’s guidance on foreign travel insurance.
Most visits to Uzbekistan are trouble free.
On 6 November 2019, it was reported that 17 people were killed in an armed attack on a Tajik security check-point on the Uzbek/Tajik border. Daesh/ISIS claimed responsibility. You should exercise caution and vigilance, particularly if travelling near or across the Uzbek/Tajik border. See Local travel and Terrorism
Take care in areas bordering Tajikistan, Kyrgyzstan and Afghanistan. Uzbekistan’s borders are potential flashpoints and uncontrolled border areas may be land-mined. Borders are subject to closure without notice. See Local travel
Terrorist attacks in Uzbekistan can’t be ruled out. See Terrorism
Air quality in the Karakalpakstan and Khorezm regions has deteriorated as a result of storms over the Aral Sea bringing salt, dust and pollutants into the air. See Health
You can be detained on arrival for the possession of certain medicines, including codeine. You should always carry a doctor’s prescription with you. See Travelling with medicines
If you need to contact the emergency services, call 101 (fire), 102 (police) or 103 (ambulance).
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.
