Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Tonga on the TravelHealthPro website.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
All international flights to Tonga are suspended, except for repatriation flights approved by the Ministry of Health.
Air New Zealand are running one flight a week for outbound passengers. Contact Air New Zealand (+64 9 357 3000) or a travel agent of your choice to check onward transit options. Details of rules on transiting via New Zealand are on the New Zealand Immigration website. You should also familiarise yourself with the current rules on transiting via Australia.
Entry and borders
In line with the State of Emergency (see below), Tongan borders are closed for entry to all foreign nationals, except if authorisation has been granted by the relevant Tongan government authority. See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Tonga.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements. The Communicable Disease Section of the Ministry of Health conducts testing for outgoing passengers from Tonga. You should call 770 9537 or 740 0416 for further advice including prices, and to arrange a test.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Tonga
A State of Emergency was declared on 20 March 2020 by the government of the Kingdom of Tonga. This has been renewed until 8pm on 22 November 2021.The Kingdom of Tonga has also extended the National COVID-19 Restrictions Directions until 8pm on 22 November 2021. These include a night-time curfew from midnight to 5am. The Declaration of a Public Health Emergency (COVID-19) Regulations 2020 and the Declaration of an Emergency Notifiable Condition has been extended to 22 November 2021.
On 1 November 2021, the government of the Kingdom of Tonga announced the introduction of additional measures, including a 7-day lockdown (from 00.01hrs on 2 November to 23.59hrs on 8 November), for the island of Tongatapu. During this period additional restrictions will apply to public movements with strict penalties (fines/imprisonment) enforced for those caught breaking the rules. For information on the lockdown and associated measures, you should check the government of the Kingdom of Tonga’s website.
Except on Tongatapu, where stricter rules temporarily apply, gatherings are restricted to 50 people at indoor venues and 100 people at outdoor venues, except for religious services and education institutions. Tongan authorities are encouraging social distancing and good hand hygiene.
Public places and services
Except on Tongatapu, where stricter rules temporarily apply, public places are open including places of worship, shops, restaurants, bars and nightclubs. You must abide by the nationwide curfew and remain in your home or accommodation between midnight and 5am.
Healthcare in Tonga
Medical care across Tonga is not as advanced as you would find in the UK. Access to medical services and the availability of fresh foods in Tonga could be impaired during a serious or extended COVID-19 outbreak.
Further information on precautionary measures and travel restrictions are available from the Government of the Kingdom of Tonga website.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Tonga
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Tonga
Wherever possible British nationals should aim to be vaccinated in the country where they live. We will update this page when the Government of Tonga announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Tongan national vaccination programme started in April 2021 using the AstraZeneca vaccine. The Ministry of Health extended the programme to Ha’apai on 31 August. The roll-out of Pfizer vaccine to children aged 12-17 years began in schools on Tongatapu on 21 October. British nationals resident in Tonga are eligible for vaccination. People who have not yet received a vaccine are encouraged to pre-register at the Ministry of Health’s website. You should also monitor the Tongan Ministry of Health Facebook page for more information.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in Tonga, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
Consular support is limited in Tonga. However, the British High Commission in Wellington, New Zealand can provide consular support to British nationals. You should monitor guidance on social media. Check the UK in the South Pacific Facebook page and Twitter feed.
