This page has information on travelling to Tonga. Check what you must do to return to the UK.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport from the UK, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Tonga set and enforce entry rules.
A progressive opening of Tonga’s borders, with conditions, begins on 1 August 2022.
In addition to the COVID-19 specific measures listed below, the Government of the Kingdom of Tonga advises all foreign visitors to hold comprehensive travel insurance. Additionally, confirmation of a hotel or accommodation booking in Tonga must be sent by email 48 hours ahead of travel to the Ministry of Health at travel@health.gov.to and then be presented at flight check-in and on arrival in Tonga.
All travellers
All travellers aged 12 years and above are required to be fully vaccinated with the prescribed two doses (or one dose of Johnson & Johnson) before seeking entry to Tonga. All travellers are also encouraged to have their booster dose(s) complete before travelling to Tonga.
All documents presented must be in English. The use of any other language will result in you being denied boarding.
On arrival in Tonga:
a. All passengers must wear a face mask at all times
b. Those picking up passengers at Fua’amotu International Airport must wear a mask at all times
c. All passengers must fill in the Health Arrival Declaration Form inflight and provide a valid phone number and email or Facebook address;
d. All passengers arriving into Tonga are strongly encouraged to download and activate the “Tonga ‘Atautolu” contact tracing app
e. All passengers arriving into Tonga are strongly encouraged to take precautionary and preventative measures (wear a mask in public places, social distance, practice good hand hygiene) and comply with the current National COVID-19 Traffic Light Framework and Restrictions Directions
f. A passenger who leaves to the outer islands within 3-5 days of arrival in Tonga without a PCR test done will still be required to have a COVID-19 test within day 3-5 of arrival in Tonga, at the outer islands. A supervised RAT test at either an approved pharmacy or Ministry of Health health center/hospital is acceptable in such situation.
g. All passengers are to arrange and have a supervised PCR test done at an approved Health Centre in their area of residence or Vaiola Hospital on Day 3 to Day 5 of arrival and report the result to the Ministry of Health via email address travel@health.gov.to or by calling 0800 933. Self-testing at home is not acceptable
h. Any passenger with a positive test result must self/home isolate for 5 days from the date of testing positive. If a passenger is still symptomatic, self/home isolation will be extended for another 3 days. Recovering passengers must wear a face mask for the next 5 days upon release
If you’re fully vaccinated
If you’re fully vaccinated, before you travel to Tonga you will need to present a supervised pre-flight Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) negative result, taken within 24 hours of departure from the originating airport. The test result must have the testing laboratory, clinic or pharmacy’s letterhead and stamp. Results can be sent by email prior to departure to travel@health.gov.to.
If you exit an airport that you transit through e.g. if you leave the secure area or are transiting for more than 24 hours, you must repeat a supervised RAT before checking in again for your onward flight to Tonga.
Failure to produce a legitimate vaccination certificate and/or the required pre-departure negative COVID-19 test (RAT), will result in you being denied boarding, or denied entry to Tonga.
Further guidance is available at the Government of the Kingdom of Tonga Government’s portal.
Proof of vaccination status
You must present proof that you have been fully vaccinated to enter Tonga.
Tonga will accept the UK’s printed version of proof of COVID-19 vaccination record and proof of COVID-19 vaccination issued in the Crown Dependencies. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
A COVID-19 vaccine certificate is required for check-in. Ideally a hard copy of the vaccine certificate should be presented at check-in and upon arrival in Tonga. However, electronic documents, including emails, on mobile phones or other electronic devices are acceptable.
All travellers are also required to submit a copy of their COVID-19 vaccination record by email to travel@health.gov. to at least 48 hours prior to their departure.
Failure to produce a vaccination certificate will result in you being denied boarding and entry to Tonga.
If you’re not fully vaccinated
If you’re not fully vaccinated, you are unlikely to be permitted to enter Tonga except if you qualify for an exemption – see Exemptions
If you’ve had COVID-19 in the past year
If you’re fully vaccinated but test positive, based on a historic infection in your pre-flight Rapid Antigen Test, you will need to seek the Ministry of Health’s approval to travel. To apply for approval, send an email to the Ministry of Health at travel@health.gov.to explaining your circumstances and including a Certificate of Recovery and a Fitness to Fly Certificate, prepared by a General Practitioner less than 24 hours in advance of your flight’s departure. It is essential the information you provide also contains evidence of your previous COVID-19 infection.
You cannot use the UK COVID Pass to demonstrate proof of COVID-19 recovery when entering Tonga.
Children and young people
The rules for fully vaccinated travellers apply for children aged 12 years and over
If you’re transiting through Tonga
Transiting is when you pass through one country on the way to your final destination.
Airside transits are not currently possible.
Exemptions
Passengers with medical conditions who deem themselves exempt from Tonga’s COVID-19 vaccination requirements must email the Ministry of Health at travel@health.gov.to at least 48 hours before departure and include a written report from a registered medical officer, stating the reasons for exemption. The Ministry of Health reserves the right to deny boarding if it is not satisfied with the medical report provided.
Any other requests for an exemption to Tonga’s entry requirements should be sent to the Ministry of Health by email at travel@health.gov.to.
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
Check with your travel provider to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Passport validity
If you are visiting Tonga, your passport should be valid for a minimum of 6 months from the date you arrive.
If you are a resident in Tonga, your passport must be valid for a minimum of 6 months from the date you arrive.
Visas
British passport holders visiting Tonga as a tourist or on business are normally given permission to enter the country for up to 30 days. You should be able to provide an onward air or sea ticket, adequate funds and relevant health certificates. If you wish to extend your stay you must obtain permission from the Principal Immigration Officer.
For further information contact the Immigration Division: Head of Immigration Division, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, PO Box 821, Nuku’alofa, TONGA; Tel: +676 26 969; Fax: +676 26 971.
If you hold a short-term visa for Tonga which is close to expiry, you should report to the Immigration Office to have your visa extended. Further information can be found at the Ministry of Revenue & Customs website.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents are accepted for entry, airside transit and exit from Tonga.
Returning to the UK
Check what you must do to return to the UK.
