At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
There have been a number of outbreaks of measles in Pacific countries, including Tonga. You should visit the NaTHNaC website for information and advice about measles and monitor the advice of the local authorities.
UK health authorities have classified Tonga as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For information and advice about the risks associated with Zika virus, visit the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
There has been an increase in dengue fever cases recorded in Vavau. You should take measures to avoid being bitten by mosquitoes.
Health facilities in Tonga are basic. The range of drugs available is limited and modern equipment is in short supply. Medical evacuation from Tonga is required for most non-basic medical problems. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 933 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
Coronavirus (Covid-19)
The Ministry of Health of Tonga has introduced further of precautionary measures in response to the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic.
All travellers to Tonga are required to complete a health declaration card and provide it to the Ministry of Health Border Control Team.
There are specific restrictions for foreign nationals who have originated from or transited mainland China, (including Hong Kong, Macao and Taiwan) Italy, Republic of Korea, Spain, France, Germany, USA, Switzerland, Netherlands, UK, Denmark, Sweden, Norway, Japan, Belgium, Austria, Bahrain, Singapore, Australia, Malaysia, The Czech Republic, Slovenia, Portugal, Finland, Israel, Kuwait, Greece, Egypt, Iraq, Ireland, United Arab Emirates, India, Estonia, Lebanon, Thailand, Indonesia, San Marino, Philippines, Romania, Poland, Saudi Arabia, Iceland and Qatar.
All foreign nationals originating from or transiting through the countries listed above need to:
a) Spend at least 14 days self-quarantine outside of the countries listed above. Upon the completion of this period, travellers must
b) Obtain medical clearance (confirming they are free of signs of symptoms and acute respiratory illness) within three days prior to arrival to Tonga.
All international cruise ships and yachts scheduled to arrive after 19 March shall not be granted entry into Tonga until further notice.
Further information on precautionary measures and travel restrictions are available from the Government of the Kingdom of Tonga website.
Further advice is available from Public Health England, and the TravelHealthPro website.
Some countries in the region have also introduced travel restrictions to and from the Pacific islands. You should check specifics for any countries that might be involved in your travel when planning a trip to and/or from Tonga.
Medical care across Tonga is not as advanced as you would find in the UK. Access to medical services and the availability of fresh foods in Tonga could be impaired during a serious or extended Covid-19 outbreak. Due to the rapidly changing nature of the Covid-19 outbreak across the region, flight availability and entry requirements/prohibitions can change at short notice. This means your ability to leave Tonga by commercial airlines, or your ability to travel to your chosen destination could be curtailed at short notice. Our ability to provide consular services or support any evacuation in the Pacific may also be limited by these factors. You should take these limitations and risks into account when making travel plans.
