

Earthquakes
Tonga is part of the Pacific ‘Ring of Fire’, a zone of frequent earthquakes and volcanic eruptions that surrounds the basin of the Pacific Ocean. Earthquakes and volcanic activity can occur at any time, and can trigger tsunami alerts.
Volcanic Activity
There has been an increase in volcanic activity at Home Reef, located 245 km north-northeast of Tongatapu and 91 km southwest of Vava’u. More information and updates can be found on the Tonga Geological Service Facebook page .
The underwater volcano Hunga-Tonga Hunga-Ha’apai, located 65km North North West of Nuku’alofa, erupted on 15 January 2022 with the resulting tsunami and ash fall causing significant damage and continuing to disrupt telecommunications services.
Further information on earthquakes can be found on the US Geological Survey website. Further information on tsunamis can be found on the NOAA and Tonga Meteorological Service pages.
You should familiarise yourself with safety procedures in the event of an earthquake, and take note of earthquake and tsunami related instructions e.g. in hotel rooms. To learn more about what to do before, during and after an earthquake, see the website of the US Federal Emergency Management Agency.
Tropical cyclones
The tropical cyclone season in Tonga normally runs from November to April but cyclones can occur throughout the year. During this period there is a greater risk of strong winds and heavy rains with associated flooding, landslides and road closures. Essential services such as power and water can be disrupted. We strongly advise that extra care is taken around damaged buildings and fallen power lines.
You should monitor local and international weather updates from the World Meteorological Organisation (WMO), from the Tonga Meteorological Service, in local newspapers and on Radio Tonga 1 and 2 on 1017 AM and 90 FM, and follow the advice of the local authorities including any evacuation orders. See our Tropical cyclones page for further advice about what to do if you are caught up in a storm.
