The Government of Tonga has announced that 63 international flights to Tonga are diverted from Tonga until Friday 12 June, except for international flights approved by the Ministry of Health. See the full list of diverted flights on the Diversion Order.
Air New Zealand has scheduled a commercial flight from Nuku’alofa, Tonga to Auckland, New Zealand on Thursday 21 & Thursday 28 May and Thursday 4 & Thursday 11 June. Connecting flights to London via Los Angeles are available the same evening. These are commercial flights bookable directly with Air New Zealand.
If you are interested on travelling on these flights you should contact Air New Zealand immediately by telephone on +64 9 357 3000 or contact a travel agent of your choice. The complete Nuku’alofa-Auckland-Los Angeles-London itinerary is not bookable online. Seat availability is limited.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK.
For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Visas
If you hold a short term visa for Tonga which is close to expiry, you should report to the Immigration Office to have your visa extended. Further information was can be found at the Ministry of Revenue & Customs website.
Your journey home: re-entering the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK. You:
need to provide your journey and contact details up to 48 hours before you’re due to arrive in the UK
are not allowed to leave the place you’re staying for the first 14 days you’re in the UK except in very limited situations (known as ‘self-isolating’)
See also the list of people who are exempt from the border rules.
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) also provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
Help and support
There is no British diplomatic representation in Tonga. Consular support is limited in Tonga. However, the British High Commission in Suva in Fiji can provide consular support to British nationals. Please monitor guidance on their social media. Check their Facebook page and their Twitter feed.
If you cannot leave Tonga
If you cannot leave Tonga at this time, see advice on staying in Tonga during coronavirus.
