

Terrorism  
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.      
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad. 
Terrorism in Tonga 
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Tonga, attacks cannot be ruled out. 
Crime 
Protecting yourself and your belongings 
The level of serious crime is low, but petty theft is fairly common. To protect yourself and your property: 
do not leave bags unattended 
use hotel safes or deposit boxes for passports and valuables 
stay in well-lit and populated areas after dark 
keep villas and hotel rooms locked and secure 
Laws and cultural differences  
Customs and dress code 
Tongan society is very conservative and highly religious. People strictly observe the Sabbath. On Sundays, local people may consider recreational activities to be disrespectful. This does not apply to island resorts.  
Topless sunbathing and nudity in public is illegal. You could be fined up to 100 pa’angas or get a prison sentence of up to 4 months if you refuse to pay.  
Swimwear is acceptable on the beach or by streams and waterfalls, but in other areas it is likely to receive negative attention. 
Mobile phone coverage 
You can buy a local SIM card at the airport. You register it by giving your personal ID. Network coverage is usually reliable in towns, but can be patchy in rural locations.   
Alcohol laws and bans 
It’s illegal to drink alcohol in public except at bars or restaurants. The legal drinking age is 21. It is illegal for anyone aged 20 or under to buy alcohol. Drunken behaviour is likely to receive negative attention from locals. 
Illegal drugs and prison sentences 
Drug taking in all forms is illegal. The maximum penalty for importing or exporting illegal drugs is 30 years’ hard labour and fines of several hundred thousand US dollars. If you are found guilty of cultivating or distributing illegal drugs, you are likely to receive a severe punishment. 
LGBT+ travellers 
Same-sex sexual activity between men is illegal in Tonga and the law is occasionally enforced. Same-sex partners showing affection in public may receive negative attention.  
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers. 
Outdoor activities and adventure tourism  
Swimming and surfing safety 
Take local advice before swimming or surfing. Tonga’s tides can produce powerful currents in ocean lagoons. There have been fatal accidents on popular beaches.  
Many waves break directly on to reefs. The sea and beaches may have loose rocks and other debris resulting from the underwater eruption of the Hunga Tonga-Hunga Ha’apai volcano. Take extra care when swimming. 
For more advice, see water safety on holiday from the Royal Life Saving Society. 
Scuba diving 
Before scuba diving, check you are covered by your insurance. You should also: 
ask for the dive operator’s credentials 
make sure safety equipment and oxygen is available on the boat 
check for damage before using any equipment 
insist on training and ask operators to explain safe practices 
check what to do if something goes wrong, including how to call for help while at sea 
There is currently no hyperbaric chamber on Tonga, so get advice from your dive instructor or dive team.  
Whale boats 
Thousands of whales frequent the waters of Tonga every year between June and November. There are strict regulations on whale watching. It is illegal to swim or kayak with whales unless you are on a licensed boat with a certified guide. If convicted, you could get a fine of up to 5,000 pa’angas or an 18-month prison sentence – or both. The authorities can apply these penalties to a first-time offence.  
Transport risks  
Road travel  
If you are planning to drive in Tonga, see information on driving abroad. You can drive using your UK driving licence.   
Roads are generally in good condition, but inland they can be narrow and potholed. Speed limits are low and traffic police can issue on-the-spot fines if you exceed them. All drivers and front seat passengers must wear seatbelts. It is illegal to use a mobile phone while driving.  
When driving near villages watch for children and animals on the roads. Avoid driving at night as roads are poorly lit and hazards such as livestock and pedestrians make driving very dangerous. 
Sea travel 
Safety at sea, particularly on board older vessels, is a concern in Tonga. Ferries do not follow normal safety regulations and are often overloaded. Consider carrying your own lifejacket.  
Air travel 
Severe weather can cause flight delays and cancellations. Stay in touch with your travel provider. 
Extreme weather and natural disasters 
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards. 
Tropical cyclones 
The tropical cyclone season normally runs from November to May, but cyclones can happen throughout the year. During the cyclone season there is a greater risk of severe weather including strong winds and heavy rain. Severe weather may cause floods, landslides, road closures and disrupt essential services and infrastructure. You should follow local advice and monitor local and international weather updates from World Meteorological Organization or Tonga Meteorological Services.  
Earthquakes and tsunamis 
Tonga is part of the Pacific Ring of Fire, a zone of frequent earthquakes and volcanic eruptions. Earthquakes and volcanic activity can happen at any time and trigger tsunamis. Check advice from local Tongan authorities and tsunami alerts for the region. 
The US Federal Emergency Management Agency website has advice about what to do before, during and after an earthquake or tsunami.  
