This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Tonga as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Tonga to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Tonga
A State of Emergency was declared on 20 March by the Government of the Kingdom of Tonga. This has been extended until 8pm on Thursday 11 June. Travellers are advised to follow the guidance of the government of the Kingdom of Tonga. Tongan borders are closed for entry by all foreigners.
The Kingdom of Tonga has extended the Restrictions Notice effective until 8pm Friday 29 May 2020. This includes a night time curfew from 10pm to 5am. Travellers are advised to follow the guidance of the government of the Kingdom of Tonga.
Visas
If you hold a short term visa for Tonga which is close to expiry, you should report to the Immigration Office to have your visa extended. Further information was can be found at the Ministry of Revenue & Customs website.
Health
Medical care across Tonga is not as advanced as you would find in the UK. Access to medical services and the availability of fresh foods in Tonga could be impaired during a serious or extended Covid-19 outbreak.
Further information on precautionary measures and travel restrictions are available from the Government of the Kingdom of Tonga website.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Tonga
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Tonga, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
There is no British diplomatic representation in Tonga. Consular support is limited in Tonga. However, the British High Commission in Suva in Fiji can provide consular support to British nationals. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Please monitor guidance on their social media. Check their Facebook page and their Twitter feed.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
