The FCDO advises against all but essential travel to:
the whole of Tonga based on the current assessment of COVID-19 risks.
If you are arriving in the UK from Tonga on or after 4am on 18 January you will need to self-isolate on your arrival, unless you have a valid exemption. Check the latest guidance for England, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales
Travel to Tonga is subject to entry restrictions
Tongan borders are closed to entry by all foreign nationals, except if authorisation is granted by the relevant Tongan Government authority.
See Entry requirements for more information before you plan to travel.
Preparing for your return journey to the UK
If you’re returning to the UK from overseas, you will need to:
provide your journey and contact details before you travel
If your return journey to the UK transits another country, you should check whether it is subject to a travel ban or any other additional requirements. If so, contact your travel provider.
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
If you’re planning travel to Tonga, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) guidance on foreign travel insurance.
The tropical cyclone season in Tonga normally runs from November to April but cyclones can occur throughout the year. Severe weather may result in flooding, landslides, road closures and disruption to essential services and infrastructure. You should monitor local and international weather updates from the World Meteorological Organisation (WMO), from the Tonga Meteorological Service, in local newspapers and on Radio Tonga 1 and 2 on 1017 AM and 90 FM, and follow the advice of the local authorities including any evacuation orders. See our Tropical cyclones page for further advice about what to do if you are caught up in a storm. See Natutral disasters
There is no British diplomatic representation in Tonga. Consular support is limited in Tonga. However, the British High Commission in Suva in Fiji can provide consular support to British nationals.
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Tonga, attacks can’t be ruled out. See Terrorism
Most visits to Tonga are trouble free. The crime rate is relatively low. However, petty crime and theft do take place. You should remain vigilant, especially at night. See Crime.
UK health authorities have classified Tonga as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For information and advice about the risks associated with Zika virus, visit the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
