Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Kuwait on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
Only Kuwaitis and their first-degree relatives are allowed to enter Kuwait until further notice.
Check with your travel company for the latest information. You should follow @Kuwait_dgca on Twitter for details of the latest measures.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Kuwait.
Public places and services
The wearing of face masks in public is required. Penalties for not wearing a mask in public are a fine of 5000 KD or a prison sentence of three months. Follow the official Kuwait News Agency and @CGCKuwait for the latest details.
Healthcare
For contact details for English speaking doctors, visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Kuwait
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
If you think you have COVID-19 symptoms you should call 151.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Kuwait
Wherever possible British nationals should be vaccinated in the country where they live. As further information is available about the national vaccination programme, this page will be updated. Sign up to get email notifications.
The Kuwaiti Ministry of Health has announced that all residents are eligible to be included in the vaccination programme. You can register through the Ministry of Health’s registration page.
The Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) is the UK authority responsible for assessing the safety, quality and efficacy of vaccines. It has authorised the Pfizer/BioNTech, Oxford/AstraZeneca and Moderna vaccines for temporary supply and use in the UK. Find out more about MHRA approval for these vaccines.
British nationals living overseas should seek medical advice from their local healthcare provider in the country where they reside. Information about vaccines used in other national programmes, including regulatory status, should be available from the local authorities. This list of Stringent Regulatory Authorities recognised by the World Health Organisation may also be a useful source of additional information. Find out more about COVID-19 vaccines on the World Health Organisation COVID-19 vaccines page.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements. A list of approved test centres is available when you register your flight details on the government portal, as required by the Kuwait Government before travel, or from your airline.
Further information
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
