This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Kuwait set and enforce entry rules. For further information contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to. You should also consider checking with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Entry rules in response to coronavirus
Since 1 August 2021 foreigners with valid residency have been allowed to enter Kuwait. You must be fully vaccinated with a vaccine approved in Kuwait (2 doses of either Pfizer, AstraZeneca, Moderna, or 1 dose of Johnson and Johnson). This applies to all foreign residents aged 16 and above. Confirmation of your vaccination status (this must be “green”) needs to be registered with Kuwait’s Ministry of Health via the ‘Immune’ App or on the Mobile Civil ID app, or through presenting a certificate of vaccination outside Kuwait that includes a readable QR code. Kuwait also considers as fully vaccinated those who have had two doses of vaccine not approved in Kuwait if they have also had one dose of an approved vaccine, see ‘Demonstrating your COVID-19 status’.
You must present a negative PCR test taken less than 72 hours before boarding. You must also register with the Mosafer platform, buy a PCR test on arrival, and download the Shlonik app before boarding. You will have to quarantine at home for seven days on arrival, although quarantine can end if the PCR test carried out on arrival proves negative.
Currently, visit visas are not issued on arrival or at Embassies outside Kuwait. The British Embassy has been informed by local authorities that British nationals can apply for visit visas online. Applicants will be able to check the status of their application before travelling and the visas will be issued upon arrival. However, this service is currently on hold. Please continue to check online for updates.
Demonstrating your COVID-19 status
Kuwait will only accept the UK’s letter version of proof of COVID-19 recovery and vaccination record. They will not accept digital proof. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
Regular entry requirements
The information on this page covers the most common types of travel and reflects the UK government’s understanding of the rules currently in place. Unless otherwise stated, this information is for travellers using a full ‘British Citizen’ passport.
The authorities in the country or territory you’re travelling to are responsible for setting and enforcing the rules for entry. If you’re unclear about any aspect of the entry requirements, or you need further reassurance, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
You should also consider checking with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Visas
The Kuwaiti Government automatically extended visit visas and residency visas that expired after 1 March 2020 until 30 November 2020. A small number were subsequently extended for further three month periods. This only applies to visa holders already in Kuwait. If you hold valid Kuwaiti residency and are outside Kuwait, your residency is now valid until its expiry date, and does not automatically expire after 6 months outside Kuwait.
The Kuwaiti Government has suspended the visa on arrival and e-visa service. You should get a visa in advance from the Kuwaiti Embassy in London when this service reopens. On arrival in Kuwait, the immigration authorities may ask to see evidence of return or onward travel, a sponsor’s letter and hotel confirmation. For further information, contact the Embassy of Kuwait, 2 Albert Gate, London, SW1X 7JU (telephone 020 7590 3400).
Passport validity
For visit visas, obtained on arrival or in advance, your passport should be valid for a minimum period of 6 months from the date of entry into Kuwait.
For residency visas, your passport should be valid for a minimum of 2 years.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are not valid for entry into Kuwait. However, ETDs are accepted for airside transit and exit from Kuwait. Residents and tourists will need to get an exit stamp before leaving. Kuwait residency permits are cancelled when an ETD is issued.
Previous travel to Israel
If you have an Israeli stamp in your passport, you may be refused a visa and/or entry into Kuwait.
Living and working in Kuwait
For work or residency visas, apply to the Kuwaiti Embassy in London.
If you intend to use UK documents like academic records, marriage certificates, or your driving licence in your application, you should have all such documents authenticated by the FCDO in the UK or by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the country in which they were awarded and the nearest Kuwaiti Embassy. The same procedure is necessary for children’s birth certificates.
Your employers should not retain your passport.
