At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Coronavirus
There is an ongoing outbreak of coronavirus. The virus originated in China, but cases have been confirmed in some other countries, including Kuwait.
The Kuwait Government announced on 10 March that commercial flights in to and out of Kuwait will be stopped as of Friday 13 March, until further notice. You should keep up to date with information from your tour operator, and transport or accommodation provider on the impact on any existing travel plans. For the latest updates you should monitor @kuwait_dgca on Twitter and the Kuwait News Agency
Land borders with Iraq and Saudi Arabia have closed, and other countries may monitor travellers from Kuwait.
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of respiratory diseases, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
You can find more information about cases in Kuwait on the TravelHealthPro country page.
Local medical care
There is a state medical service with local clinics and several good hospitals. There are also private medical and dental facilities. Fees are controlled by the state and are expensive. Since 1 October 2017 the Kuwaiti government has increased the cost to expatriates and visitors of using state medical facilities. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation. If you’re working in Kuwait, check whether your employer provides private medical insurance. If not, you’re strongly advised to take out personal medical insurance for yourself and any dependents.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 112 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
