Coronavirus guidance is being updated.
Read the Prime Minister’s address for the latest information.

The authorities have instructed that there will be no commercial flights into Kuwait after midnight on 13 March until further notice.
Flights
The British Embassy Kuwait has been working to find options for British Nationals to leave Kuwait, if they wish to return to the UK. There is one commercial option: Qatar Airways operates daily commercial flights from Kuwait to UK via Doha; more information at www.qatarairways.com. The Kuwaiti Foreign Ministry has informed the British Embassy that seats could be available on a limited number of special Kuwait Airways flights to London. Further travel restrictions and flight suspensions, including of currently scheduled flights, may be introduced at short notice. We encourage those British Nationals who wish to leave to check www.qatarairways.com or contact Kuwait Airways call centre on 171. Please follow @ukinkuwait for further updates.
You should keep up to date with information from your tour operator, and transport or accommodation provider on the impact on any existing travel plans. For the latest updates you should monitor the Kuwait Directorate General of Civil Aviation on Twitter and the Kuwait News Agency.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
See more information and advice about staying where you are if you cannot return to the UK.
Arrival in the UK
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Further information
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
