

Terrorism  
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.      
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad. 
Terrorism in Kuwait 
Terrorist attacks in Kuwait cannot be ruled out.
Terrorists have threatened to carry out attacks in the Gulf region, including on:  
residential compounds 
restaurants and hotels 
beaches 
shopping centres 
mosques 
military, oil, transport and aviation interests 
Stay aware of your surroundings, keep up to date with local media reports and follow the advice of local authorities. 
Examples of recent significant incidents include: 
in 2020, 6 minors were arrested in Kuwait on suspicion of links with ISIS 
in 2024, 3 individuals were arrested on suspicion of an alleged ISIS plot against a place of worship 
Red Sea military activity 
Regional risks
Ongoing hostilities in the region and between Israel and Iran have the potential to deteriorate further, quickly and without warning including since US military strikes against Iran on 22 June.
There is a possibility of travel disruption, including short-notice airspace closures, delayed and cancelled flights, and other unanticipated travel impacts.
We encourage you to:
read the FCDO’s advice on if you’re affected by a crisis abroad
monitor local and international media for the latest information
be vigilant and follow the instructions of local authorities, avoiding all but essential travel to military bases
check with relevant airlines for the latest updates before travelling
Political situation  
Recent developments in the Middle East have heightened tensions in the region. Planned and pre-approved peaceful protests are legal, however these are for Kuwaiti citizens only.  
There have also been minor, isolated cases of vandalism aimed at some international companies, or calls for them to be boycotted.  
Be mindful of local sensitivities on these issues, stay away from demonstrations or developing crowds and follow the advice of the local authorities.
Crime 
Violent crime against foreigners is rare. However, take care if you plan to travel to Jahra or Jleeb Al Shuyoukh, where there have been incidents of robberies, petty theft and road rage. 
Border crossings  
It is illegal and dangerous to go near Kuwait’s borders without authorisation. Armed guards regularly patrol these areas.  
Kuwait-Saudi Arabia border 
It is easy to miss the border posts between Kuwait and Saudi Arabia. You must only use an authorised land border crossing and make sure to get an exit or entry stamp before you continue your journey. 
Kuwait-Iraq border 
If you plan to cross the border from Kuwait into Iraq, make sure you have the correct paperwork. See the Iraqi Embassy to Kuwait website for more information. 
Landmines and unexploded weapons 
There are landmines and other unexploded weapons in Kuwait.  
You should: 
avoid off-road driving 
stay on clearly marked identifiable tracks if you travel off-road 
take great care even if an area has been officially cleared 
not pick up metal, plastic or other objects 
Laws and cultural differences  
Kuwait is a Muslim country. Always respect local traditions, customs, laws and religions. Make sure your actions do not offend other cultures or religious beliefs, especially during the holy month of Ramadan or if you visit religious areas.  
Personal ID 
As a visiting foreign national, you must always carry your passport. If you are resident in Kuwait, you must always carry your Kuwaiti civil identification card.  
Keep copies of your passport photo page and your visa or entry stamp in a separate place. 
Ramadan  
Ramadan is a holy month for Muslims. The dates vary by year and country. During this time, do not:  
eat, drink, smoke or chew gum in public in the daytime, including in your car  
play loud music or dance  
swear in public  
Get more advice when you arrive from your tour guide, hotel or business contacts.  
You should also:  
check opening hours of shops and restaurants  
be aware that if hotels and restaurants are providing food or drink in fasting hours, they may separate you from Islamic guests, for example with screens  
follow local dress codes – clothing that does not meet local dress codes may cause more offence at this time  
be aware that driving may be erratic, particularly when people are trying to get home at dusk  
be patient and show tolerance 
Dress code 
Dress and behave modestly in public, particularly in downtown or conservative areas. Women should avoid wearing shorts or tight-fitting or revealing clothing.
Do not expose body piercings or tattoos that may be perceived as extreme or offensive – for example, you could be accused of violating religious sanctity for a tattoo of verse from the holy Quran in Arabic.
Relationships outside of marriage 
It is illegal for an unmarried couple to live together in the same house or stay in the same hotel room. You will  be asked to provide a marriage certificate if sharing a hotel room.  
Public behaviour  
It’s illegal to insult or humiliate any person verbally or through obscene gestures in a public place, including a police officer, public official or private individual. Police may arrest you and conviction may lead to prosecution, imprisonment, or immediate deportation. 
It is frowned on for men and women to show affection in public. 
Alcohol laws 
Buying, selling or carrying alcohol and drunken behaviour in public is punishable by a fine or imprisonment and can result in deportation. 
Illegal drugs penalties  
Penalties for drug trafficking include the death sentence. Possession or use of illegal drugs can lead to a prison sentence of between 5 and 10 years, and a heavy fine. Bail is not usually given and even if found not guilty, you can expect to spend several months in detention while the case progresses through the judicial system. 
Using cameras in secure areas 
It is illegal to photograph or take videos of: 
government buildings  
military buildings 
industrial buildings or oil-related infrastructure  
other restricted areas such as borders and oil fields 
record people without their knowledge or consent 
Unpaid fines and bills  
All foreign nationals must pay traffic fines, phone bills and utility bills before they leave Kuwait. The Kuwaiti authorities may:  
stop you from leaving the country 
arrest you, or send you to prison 
fine you 
deport you, and not allow you to return to Kuwait 
refuse renewal of your residency card or re-entry visa  
Financial crimes 
Bouncing cheques is illegal and the law does not provide for offenders to be released from custody on bail.  
Commercial disputes 
If you’re involved in a commercial dispute with a Kuwaiti company or individual, the Kuwaiti authorities may prevent you from leaving the country until it is resolved.  
LGBT+ travellers 
Same-sex activity is illegal. 
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers. 
Transport risks  
Road travel  
If you are planning to drive in Kuwait, see information on driving abroad.  
If you have a visit visa, you can drive in Kuwait using a UK photocard driving licence. If you still have a paper driving licence, you may need to update it to a photocard licence or get the correct version of the international driving permit (IDP) as well.  
There is also guidance on driving if you live in Kuwait. 
Car insurance 
You must get third-party insurance in Kuwait before you drive.  
If you hire a car, you can usually get insurance through the hire company. If you drive a relative or friend’s car, you’re responsible for getting insurance. You must always keep the insurance document with you while driving. 
Car accidents  
If you have a major accident, where there are serious injuries or a vehicle is not drivable:  
stay with your vehicle if it is safe to do so 
call the police on 112 
do not move the vehicle before the police arrive 
If you have a minor accident, where there are no serious injuries: 
take pictures of vehicle damage if it is safe to do so 
record licence plate numbers of vehicles involved 
move your vehicle to avoid blocking traffic if it is drivable - you can get a fine if you do not do this 
call the police on 112 and follow their instructions 
Drink-driving   
Drink-driving is a serious offence in Kuwait. If you are tested and found to have any alcohol in your system, you may get a fine, imprisonment, or deportation and the withdrawal of your driving licence. 
Driving conditions 
Driving conditions are hazardous. Many drivers pay little attention to other road users and may:  
drive faster than speed limits 
switch lanes without warning 
ignore traffic lights 
use mobile phones while driving 
Sea travel 
Many areas of the Gulf are highly sensitive, including near:  
maritime boundaries 
Bubiyan and Warbah, northern Gulf islands 
Abu Musa and the Tunbs, southern Gulf islands 
The area of the northern Gulf between Iran, Iraq and Kuwait has not been demarcated, and vessels entering this area have been detained and inspected. There have been occasional arrests. Make careful enquiries before entering these waters or visiting ports. 
Take extra care when sailing in Kuwaiti waters – regional tensions may affect your planned route. There may be an increased risk of attack on vessels in the Gulf of Oman, North Arabian Sea, Gulf of Aden and Bab El Mandeb regions. 
Take care when travelling by dhow, as the safety of these sailing vessels may not be up to UK standards. Make sure life jackets are available. 
