The FCDO advises against all but essential travel to:
the whole of Kuwait based on the current assessment of COVID-19 risks.
Travel to Kuwait is subject to entry restrictions
On 28 December 2020 the Government of Kuwait announced that land, sea and air borders will reopen with effect from 2 January 2021. Commercial flights to and from Kuwait will resume – you should contact the airlines for schedules.
However, as of 20 December 2020 travelers cannot enter Kuwait if they have been in the UK during the preceding 14 days. If you are booked to travel between UK and Kuwait you should contact your airline for the latest information.
You also cannot enter Kuwait if, in the preceding 14 days, you have been in any of the other countries Kuwait considers high risk for COVID-19. This list is regularly updated: you should follow @Kuwait_dgca on Twitter for the latest countries on the list.
The Kuwait Government allows British citizens to enter Kuwait if they have not been in a banned country in the preceding 14 days, hold valid residencies, and have a negative PCR test, conducted no more than 96 hours before acceptance on the flight to Kuwait. The test result should be in English.
On entry to Kuwait you will need to self-isolate for 14 days in your home.
Visit visas are not issued on arrival or at Embassies outside Kuwait, until further notice.
See Entry requirements for more information before you plan to travel.
Preparing for your return journey to the UK
If you’re returning to the UK from overseas, you will need to:
provide your journey and contact details before you travel
check if you need to self-isolate on your return
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
If you’re planning travel to Kuwait, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) guidance on foreign travel insurance.
Around 8,000 British nationals live in Kuwait and a further 10,000 visit each year. Most visits to Kuwait are trouble-free.
Following the attack on the coalition base at Taji in Iraq on 11 March, and subsequent US airstrikes, tensions may be raised across the region. There is a possibility of an increased threat against Western interests, including against UK citizens. You should remain vigilant and keep up to date with the latest developments, including via the media and this travel advice.
Terrorist attacks in Kuwait can’t be ruled out. See Terrorism
You must carry your passport or a Kuwait civil identification card at all times. See Local laws and customs
Take care if you plan to travel to conservative areas such as Jahra. There are high levels of crime, particularly robberies, in Jleeb Al Shuyoukh. See Local travel
Following maritime restrictions issued by the Kuwaiti Ministry of Interior in 2011, you should also take care when sailing in Kuwaiti waters. See Sea travel
You can contact the emergency services by calling 112 (fire, police and ambulance).
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.
The Overseas Business Risk service offers information and advice for British companies operating overseas on how to manage political, economic, and business security-related risks.
