Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Malta on the TravelHealthPro website.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Malta.
Returning to the UK
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements. Check when you book that the testing service can provide the appropriate COVID-19 test.
Check with the provider that results will be available in time for your flight. If you test positive, you will have to self-isolate for 14 days. Make sure your travel insurance covers this eventuality.
You can schedule a test at any private testing clinic in Malta. The Malta Tourism Authority has collated a list of some of the possible providers.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Malta
Passengers on public transport, including the Gozo ferry and clients of commercial entities must wear face masks.
Public spaces and services
Masks are mandatory in all public spaces, indoors and outdoors (children under 3 are exempt). From 1 July 2021, a maximum of 2 people may remove their masks in outside public spaces if they have been vaccinated and they have an official vaccination certificate. Maltese issued certificates and EU digital passes will be accepted as proof of your vaccination. If you live in England, Malta will accept the NHS COVID Pass letter or Digital App version as proof of vaccination status. If you live in Scotland or Wales, Malta will accept your respective NHS letter. If you live in Northern Ireland, Malta will accept the interim proof of vaccination document which are valid until 11:59pm on 31 July. See ‘Demonstrating your COVID-19 vaccination status’
Mask wearing on beaches is advised but no longer required.
Discos and nightclubs are closed. Groups in public places are limited to 6 people unless from the same household.
Full details of exemptions from mask wearing are available online. Medical exemptions must be certified by a medical professional.
A maximum of 4 households are allowed to meet indoors, although it is recommended not to gather in private residences. Those found to be breaching the limit will be fined.
Restaurants and snack bars are open but there is a limit of 6 people per table. Fines will be levied for non- compliance.
Home working is encouraged.
Social distancing of 2 metres is encouraged. Vulnerable people including those over 65 may return to work and leave their homes. Full information is available on the coronavirus advice page.
Health
If you have COVID-19 symptoms, even if mild, you should contact the public health helpline on 111 and follow their instructions.
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Malta.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Malta
Wherever possible British nationals should aim to be vaccinated in the country where they live. As further information is available about the national vaccination programme, this page will be updated. Sign up to get email notifications.
Residents of Malta are eligible for the vaccine. Further details can be found on the Ministry Health website https://deputyprimeminister.gov.mt/en/health-promotion/covid-19/Pages/vaccines.aspx. Priority will be given to vulnerable groups and you will be contacted when it is your turn. If you think you should have been contacted already you can call 145 or email covid-vaccine@gov.mt.
The Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) is the UK authority responsible for assessing the safety, quality and efficacy of vaccines. It has authorised the Pfizer/BioNTech, Oxford/AstraZeneca and Moderna vaccines for temporary supply and use in the UK. Find out more about MHRA approval for these vaccine.
British nationals living overseas should seek medical advice from their local healthcare provider in the country where they reside. Information about vaccines used in other national programmes, including regulatory status, should be available from the local authorities. This list of Stringent Regulatory Authorities recognised by the World Health Organisation may also be a useful source of additional information. Find out more about COVID-19 vaccines on the World Health Organisation COVID-19 vaccines page.
If you receive your COVID-19 vaccination in Malta, you can get an EU Digital COVID Certificate from the national authorities. The Certificate proves that you have been vaccinated against COVID-19, received a negative test result, or recovered from COVID-19. It will help facilitate your travel within the EU and, in some countries, you can use it to demonstrate your COVID-19 status to businesses and other organisations. For further information visit the European Commission’s EU Digital COVID Certificate page.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
The Maltese Government has a coronavirus advice page and information is available from Visit Malta. A helpline is also available on 111.
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
