This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Malta set and enforce entry rules. For further information contact their embassy, high commission or consulate. You may also check with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and travel documents meet their requirements.
If you are travelling to Malta for work, read the guidance on visas and permits as the rules have changed since 1 January 2021.
Entry rules in response to coronavirus (COVID-19)
Pre-arrival requirements
Since 30 June 2021, the Maltese authorities require all arrivals from the United Kingdom to present proof of full vaccination. This must show that you received a full course of vaccination at least 14 days prior to your arrival. If you live in England, Scotland, Northern Ireland or Wales, Malta will accept the UK’s COVID vaccine certification (both the digital and letter versions) as proof of your vaccination status. Digital certificates must include a verifiable 2D barcode (QR code). Malta will also accept the Northern Ireland interim proof of vaccination document which was valid until 11:59pm 31 July. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status. (See ‘Demonstrating your COVID-19 status’)
If you received your vaccinations in the EU, then as of 1 July 2021 the EU digital Covid Certificates will be accepted.
If you received your vaccinations in a country that administers only one dose after recovery from COVID-19, and the vaccination certificate is accepted by the Maltese authorities, you may enter Malta if your certificate shows recovery from COVID at least six months before you arrive and one dose of an EMA approved vaccine.
Children aged 5 to 11 can travel if they are accompanying their vaccinated parents/legal guardian and must show evidence of a negative Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) test, dated within 72 hours before arrival. Children under 5 do not need a test. Children aged 12 to 18 will only be able to travel if they have proof of full vaccination which must be two doses more than 14 days before travel. Children who are 12-18, who do not have a vaccine certificate may enter with a negative PCR test, but will be subject to a 14-day quarantine.
From 17 January, if you have a Maltese issued certificate of vaccination it will only be accepted if you received the primary schedule (one or two dose full vaccination) not more than three months before you arrive, or the primary schedule and booster vaccination administered not more than nine months before arrival. Maltese residents returning to Malta have a grace period until 1 February 2022 with regards to the validity of their vaccination certificates. Holders of Maltese issued valid vaccination certificates you are exempt from pre-travel testing and self-isolation.
British Nationals who have a valid Maltese residency card and are returning to Malta between the 17th January 2022 and 1st February 2022 will be granted a temporary exemption, with respect to the validity of the vaccine certificate. This allows them to enter Malta with the vaccine certification requirements in place prior to the 17th January 2022. Following this date, persons if you do do not possess a valid vaccine certificate, you will be asked to undergo a period of 14 days quarantine on their arrival.
Maltese residents who have a valid residency card and who were already abroad as of the 17th January 2022, and are returning back to Malta, will be exempt from quarantine if they have a vaccination certificate with a primary schedule of vaccination, provided they provide a negative PCR test carried out within 72 hours prior to arrival to Malta and would have applied for and take the booster dose within 5 days of arrival in Malta. This exemption does not apply to persons returning from dark red zones.
Maltese residents or citizens not in possession of a vaccine certificate must get prior authorisation to quarantine at home. You will be required to provide evidence of a PCR test dated within 72 hours before arrival and quarantine for 14 days on arrival.
Everyone must complete a Public Health Travel Declaration Form and the online Passenger Locator Form. You must show both forms to airline officials on departure and health officials stationed at the Terminal Temperature Screening Points when you arrive in Malta. The forms should be completed before departure.
You should not use the NHS testing service to get a test in order to facilitate your travel to another country. You should arrange to take a private test.
For further information about entry requirements visit the Maltese Government website. The Maltese Government will regularly review the list of countries for which prior testing will be required.
Scheduled flights may be subject to short notice cancellation. Check the Malta Airport website or contact the airline to check the status of flights.
Entry requirements if you have not been in the UK for the previous 14 days
Malta has a traffic light system for international arrivals. The list is divided into red zone countries and dark red zone countries.. You may travel to Malta from a red zone country, as long as you have been there for at least 14 days.
If you wish to travel to Malta from a dark red listed country you will need prior permission from the Maltese authorities. You should contact your nearest Maltese Embassy or High Commission for more information.
Self-isolation when you arrive
The current list of countries exempt from self-isolation can be found on the Visit Malta website. If you arrive from an exempt country or region, you will need to certify you have stayed in that country for at least 2 weeks before you travel to Malta.
The Maltese authorities have announced that from 30 June 2021, arrivals from the UK will be required to present proof of full vaccination. This will exempt travellers from self-isolation.
Everyone arriving (and departing) from Malta has their temperature checked. If you have a high temperature, you will need to take a swab test. The Malta International Airport COVID webpage provides further information.
Demonstrating your COVID-19 status
If you live in England, Scotland, Northern Ireland or Wales, Malta will accept the UK’s COVID vaccine certification (both the digital and letter versions) as proof of your vaccination status. Digital certificates must include a verifiable 2D barcode (QR code). Malta will also accept the Northern Ireland interim proof of vaccination document which was valid until 11:59pm 31 July. If you are travelling with a printed PDF proof of vaccination status, it must date from 1 November to ensure that the certificate can be scanned successfully. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
Only certificates showing the vaccine used is one approved by the European Medicines Agency will be accepted including Comirnaty (the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine) Spikevax (the Moderna vaccine), Vaxzevria (the AstraZeneca vaccine) and the Janssen (Johnson & Johnson) vaccine. These vaccines have been approved for use in the UK. For more information visit the Maltese Government website.
Those arriving having had vaccinations not EMA approved will be required to quarantine for 14 days.
Regular entry requirements
Visas
The rules for travelling or working in European countries changed on 1 January 2021:
you can travel to countries in the Schengen area for up to 90 days in any 180-day period without a visa. This applies if you travel as a tourist, to visit family or friends, to attend business meetings, cultural or sports events, or for short-term studies or training
if you are travelling to Malta and other Schengen countries without a visa, make sure your whole visit is within the 90-day limit. Visits to Schengen countries within the previous 180 days before you travel count towards your 90 days
to stay longer, to work or study, for business travel or for other reasons, you will need to meet the Maltese government’s entry requirements. Check with the Maltese High Commission what type of visa and/or work permit you may need
if you stay in Malta with a residence permit or long-stay visa, this does not count towards your 90-day visa-free limit
Any time you spent in Malta or other Schengen countries before 1 January 2021 does not count towards your 90-day visa-free limit.
At Maltese border control, you may need to queue in separate lanes from EU, EEA and Swiss citizens.
Check your passport is stamped if you enter or exit the Schengen area through the Malta as a visitor. Border guards will use passport stamps to check you’re complying with the 90-day visa-free limit for short stays in the Schengen area. If relevant entry or exit stamps are not in your passport, border guards will presume that you have overstayed your visa-free limit.
You can show evidence of when and where you entered or exited the Schengen area, and ask the border guards to add this date and location in your passport. Examples of acceptable evidence include boarding passes and tickets.
You may also need to:
show a return or onward ticket
show you have enough money for your stay
If you are resident in Malta your passport should not be stamped. You should proactively show your proof of residence as well as your valid passport at Maltese border control. For further information, see our Living in Malta guide.
Passport validity
Check your passport is valid for travel before you book your trip, and renew your passport if you do not have enough time left on it.
Make sure your passport is:
valid for at least 3 months after the day you plan to leave Malta, or any other Schengen country
less than 10 years old
The 3 months you need when leaving a country must be within 10 years of the passport issue date.
If you renewed your current passport before the previous one expired, extra months may have been added to its expiry date. Any extra months on your passport over 10 years may not count towards the minimum 3 months needed.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents are accepted for entry, airside transit and exit from Malta.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
