At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Healthcare
The rules on access to healthcare will stay the same until 31 December 2020.
You should get a free European Health Insurance Card (EHIC) before leaving the UK. After 31 December 2020, your UK-issued EHIC might not be valid.
The EHIC entitles you to state provided medical treatment that may become necessary during your trip. Any treatment provided is on the same terms as Maltese nationals. If you don’t have your EHIC with you or you’ve lost it, you can call the Department of Health Overseas Healthcare Team (+44 191 218 1999) to get a Provisional Replacement Certificate.
It is important to take out comprehensive travel insurance that includes cover for emergency medical treatment and associated costs. The existing EHIC arrangements are not an alternative to travel insurance, as some health-related costs, including for medical repatriation, ongoing medical treatment and non-urgent treatment, are not covered. Read more about what your travel insurance should cover.
If you’re living in Malta, you can also find more information on healthcare for residents in our Living In Malta guide.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 112 and ask for an ambulance. If you are referred to a medical facility for treatment you should contact your insurance/medical assistance company immediately.
Coronavirus
The Maltese authorities have introduced a number of measures in response to the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. You should comply with any additional screening measures put in place by the authorities.
The Maltese Government have an advice page and a website which gives the latest updates. A helpline is also available on 111.
All flights and ferry links to and from Germany, France, Italy, Spain and Switzerland have been suspended. Check with your travel provider for updates.
On 13 March Malta introduced a mandatory 14 day self-quarantine period for all arrivals into Malta. This will affect tourists and returning residents. You may wish to consider how this would affect your plans. Asymptomatic visitors can choose to either enter mandatory self-quarantine or to return to their country of origin as soon as possible. If you choose to leave Malta you must travel directly from your accommodation to the airport where you will be thermally screened. Most flights continue to operate but this could change at any time.
Quarantine is being enforced by spot checks and large fines. See here for further information. For the moment flights continue to operate but this could change, check with your airline/tour operator.
On 12 March the Maltese government introduced a range of further measures. Schools, childcare centres and other education institutions will be closed from 13 March until 20 March and all mass public events have been cancelled.
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
