Coronavirus guidance is being updated.
Read the Prime Minister’s statement for the latest information.

There remain commercial options to return to the UK from Malta. If you live in the UK and are currently visiting Malta, you’re strongly advised to return now by commercial means. Don’t run the risk of getting stranded.
UK special charter flights will only operate for priority countries where commercial flights are not possible. You should not assume that these flights will become available in countries, like Malta, where commercial routes are operating. Please do not contact the contracted travel management company if no flight is advertised here.
Air Malta flights
Air Malta has exceptionally arranged to maintain a flight to London Heathrow, currently five times a week, for a limited period subject to demand. Anyone wishing to leave Malta for the UK on this flight should, make an online booking in the normal way. Any passenger must have the right to enter the UK. No person with a temperature or other symptoms of COVID-19 will be allowed to travel.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK.
For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Travelling to the airport
Public transport continues to operate to the airport.
Sea crossings
All passenger ferries have been suspended. Cruise ships are not being allowed to dock at Valletta.
Your journey home: re-entering the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK. You:
need to provide your journey and contact details up to 48 hours before you’re due to arrive in the UK
are not allowed to leave the place you’re staying for the first 14 days you’re in the UK except in very limited situations (known as ‘self-isolating’)
See also the list of people who are exempt from the border rules.
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) also provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
If you cannot leave Malta
If you cannot leave Malta at this time, see advice on staying in Malta during coronavirus.
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
