

Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Malta
Terrorist attacks in Malta cannot be ruled out.
You should be aware of the global risk of indiscriminate terrorist attacks, which could be in public places, including those visited by foreigners.
Crime
Protecting yourself and your belongings
Crime against tourists is rare, but there have been incidents of:
robbery
handbag snatching
pickpocketing
theft from parked cars
To reduce your risk:
be cautious when exchanging money and using ATMs
avoid carrying large amounts of cash if possible
do not keep all your valuables in one place
keep a copy of your passport somewhere safe
Pickpocketing has happened on bus routes between Valletta and St Julian’s. Thieves target crowded buses during the summer season. Always keep sight of valuables.
Drink and food spiking
Criminals have drugged people in some bars and gentlemen’s clubs in the Paceville district. They’ve forced them to spend large amounts of money or assaulted them. You should:
be careful who you buy drinks from
keep drinks in sight to make sure they are not spiked
check your bill to make sure you are not being overcharged
Assault
There have been assaults, including rape and sexual assault. Avoid splitting up from your friends and do not go off with people you do not know. If you drink, take sensible precautions including buying your own drinks and always keeping sight of them.
Scams
Scams targeting British nationals are increasing. These come in many forms (romance and friendship, business ventures, work and employment opportunities) and can pose financial risk to victims.
Be cautious about any requests for money, a job offer, a business venture or a face-to-face meeting from someone you met over the internet.
For more information, see guidance from ActionFraud.
Laws and cultural differences
Bird hunting seasons
Bird hunting takes place in the spring and autumn. The Maltese government decides the dates at the start of each season. See local print and online media for the dates and times when hunting is allowed.
Hunting with firearms is common. It is normally allowed from 2 hours before sunrise until 2 hours after sunset. Hunting areas are rarely marked and can overlap with camping areas, country walkways and other public areas. Although not common, there have been incidents between members of the public and locals. Be aware of your surroundings when visiting rural areas and nature spots during the hunting seasons.  
Illegal drugs and prison sentences
Penalties for illegal drugs possession, use or trafficking are strict. Convicted offenders can expect prison sentences and heavy fines.
Outdoor activities and adventure tourism
Swimming safety
During the summer, lifeguards patrol most beaches and use a flag safety system. Make sure you understand the system and follow any warnings. Red flags indicate dangerous or hazardous conditions. Swim within designated zones and take extra care if there are no lifeguards, flags or signs.
Follow local advice if there are jellyfish.
See:
water safety on holiday from the Royal Life Saving Society
watersports safety advice from the Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents
the code of conduct for beaches from the Malta Tourism Authority
Transport risks
Road travel
If you are planning to drive in Malta, see information on driving abroad and check the rules of the road in the RAC’s Malta guide. The guide lists driving regulations and other legal requirements you need to be aware of.
You can use a UK photocard driving licence to drive in Malta. If you still have a paper driving licence, you may need to update it to a photocard licence or get the correct version of the international driving permit (IDP) as well.
There is also guidance on driving if you’re living in Malta.
Check if you need a UK sticker to drive your car outside the UK. 
You can use your Blue Badge in Malta. 
Take care while driving as some roads are in poor condition. Keep to the speed limit. Local standards of driving are poor.
