This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Malta as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Malta to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Malta
For information on entering Malta, see Entry Requirements
If you have symptoms, even if mild, you should contact the public health helpline on 111 and follow their instructions.
Quarantine is being enforced by spot checks and large fines. See the government’s coronavirus advice page for further information.
Schools and other educational institutions are closed. Museums and tourist sites, shops, gyms, hairdressers, swimming pools, restaurants and bars have re-opened but with restrictions on the number of customers allowed entry and an ability to maintain social distancing.
Passengers on public transport and clients of commercial entities are required to wear face masks. Travel restrictions on travel between Malta and Gozo have been relaxed.
Public gatherings of more than 75 people are banned and social distancing of 2m is encouraged. Vulnerable people including those over 65 may return to work and leave their homes. Full information is available on the coronavirus advice page.
Health
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Malta
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Malta, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
The Maltese Government have a coronavirus advice page and a coronavirus website which gives the latest updates. A helpline is also available on 111.
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
