Coronavirus: stay up to date
This page will be updated with country-specific information for travellers to Malta. Sign up for email alerts
See our coronavirus travel advice for guidance on travel during the COVID-19 pandemic, including on cruise ship travel.
The Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advise against all but essential travel to Malta, due to travel restrictions implemented by the Maltese Government related to the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic.
As of 2359 on 20 March, all incoming flights to Malta will be suspended. We recommend that if you wish to leave Malta, you contact your travel operator as soon as possible.
Air Malta has exceptionally arranged to maintain a daily flight to London Heathrow for a limited period subject to demand. Anyone wishing to leave Malta for the UK on this flight should:
Make an online booking in the normal way.
Should have the right to enter the UK. Without this passengers will not be allowed to board.
Be aware online check in will not be available for these flights. Passengers will need to be at the airport at least 2 and a half hours before departure.
Be prepared for thermal screening before boarding (no person with a temperature or other symptoms of Covid-19 will be allowed to travel)
The Maltese authorities have introduced a number of measures in response to the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. You should comply with any additional screening measures put in place by the authorities.
On 13 March, Malta introduced a mandatory 14 day self-quarantine period for all arrivals into Malta. This affects tourists and returning residents. Asymptomatic visitors can choose to either enter mandatory self-quarantine or to return to their country of origin as soon as possible. If you choose to leave Malta you must travel directly from your accommodation to the airport where you will be thermally screened. All incoming flights will be suspended as of 2359 on 20 March with only one flight a day to London available from 23 March. We recommend that British nationals who wish to leave Malta, contact their travel operator to make arrangements to do so as soon as possible. See Health
British Nationals who are Maltese Residents, and who wish return to their home in Malta should follow the advice issued by the Maltese Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
The rules on travel to EU countries will stay the same until 31 December 2020. This page will be updated with country-specific information for travellers to Malta as things change. Sign up for email alerts and view the latest updates for UK nationals travelling to and living in Europe.
Around 500,000 British tourists visit Malta every year. Most visits are trouble-free.
If you’re living in or moving to Malta, visit our Living in Malta guide in addition to this travel advice.
You can contact the emergency services by calling 112.
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Malta, attacks can’t be ruled out. See Terrorism
You should take out comprehensive travel and medical insurance before you travel. For information on the European Health Insurance Card see Health.
