!
Warning
FCDO advises against all travel to parts of Western Sahara.

Terrorism  
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.      
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad. 
Terrorism in Western Sahara 
Terrorists are likely to try to carry out attacks in Western Sahara.  
Attacks could be indiscriminate, including in places visited by foreigners. Stay aware of your surroundings, keep up to date with local media reports and follow the advice of local authorities. 
Political situation  
Western Sahara is on the UN list of Non-Self-Governing Territories and the subject of a UN-mediated dispute. The UN Peacekeeping mission for Western Sahara, MINURSO, has been operating in the country since 1991. A ceasefire between Morocco and the Polisario Front broke down in 2020. Irregular skirmishes continue to take place between the 2 sides, sometimes resulting in civilian casualties. 
Most of Western Sahara is under administration of Morocco, which closely monitors and controls access to the territory. You should avoid political gatherings and demonstrations. 
Follow any media reporting and instructions from local security authorities.  
Laws and cultural differences  
Western Sahara is predominantly Muslim. Always respect local traditions, customs, laws and religion. Make sure your actions do not offend, especially during the holy month of Ramadan or if you plan to visit religious areas.  
Ramadan 
Ramadan is a holy month for Muslims. The dates vary by year and country, so check when Ramadan is in Western Sahara before you go. During this time, do not: 
eat, drink, smoke or chew gum in public in the daytime, including in your car
play loud music or dance
swear in public
Get more advice when you arrive from your tour guide, hotel or business contacts. 
You should also: 
check opening hours of shops and restaurants
be aware that if hotels and restaurants are providing food or drink in fasting hours, they may separate you from Islamic guests, for example with screens
follow local dress codes – clothing that doesn’t meet local dress codes may cause more offence at this time
be aware that driving may be erratic, particularly when people are trying to get home at dusk
Laws against religious conversion  
It is illegal to attempt to convert any Muslim to another faith or to distribute evangelical literature, such as Arabic-language bibles. Attempting to convert a Muslim to another faith is punishable by fines or up to 3 years in prison. 
Criticism of Islam on public platforms, in print or online media, or in public speeches is punishable by heavy fines and up to 2 years in prison. 
Sexual relations outside of marriage 
Sexual activity between unmarried people and adultery are illegal – this includes sharing a hotel room.  
The law against unmarried people sharing a hotel room does not generally apply to visiting foreign nationals, particularly in popular tourist areas.  
LGBT+ travellers 
Same-sex sexual activity is illegal. Be sensitive to local laws and customs and avoid showing affection in public. Complaints can lead to prosecution.   
See more advice for LGBT+ travellers. 
Women travellers 
Women may receive unwanted attention from men, especially when travelling alone. Consider wearing loose-fitting clothing which cover the arms, legs and chest. See advice for women travelling abroad. 
Alcohol laws 
Licensed hotels, restaurants and bars serve alcohol in tourist areas. Drinking alcohol in the street or anywhere other than licensed premises is illegal and can lead to arrest. 
Transport risks  
Road travel  
If you are planning to drive in Western Sahara, see information on driving abroad. 
You’ll need to have both the 1968 version of the international driving permit (IDP) and your UK driving licence with you in the car. You cannot buy an IDP outside the UK, so get one before you travel. 
If you are staying in Western Sahara for longer than one year, you must apply for a Moroccan driving licence.
If you’re planning to hire a car, check with your car hire company for information on their requirements before you travel. 
Drive carefully, especially when: 
driving at night, which be particularly dangerous due to poor lighting
weather conditions are poor on secondary routes and mountain roads
overtaking lorries and trucks that are overloaded and when there is no hard shoulder
