Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Botswana on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
From 4am on Saturday 9 January, visitors arriving into the UK who have been in or transited through Botswana in the previous 10 days will not be permitted entry. British and Irish citizens, and third country nationals with residence rights in the UK arriving in the UK from Botswana, need to self-isolate on their return. Check the latest guidance for England, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales.
From 1 January onwards, those with residence rights include: holders of Indefinite Leave to Remain; holders of existing leave to enter or remain (i.e those with biometric Residence permits) or an entry clearance/visa that grants such leave e.g. students, workers, etc (excluding visit visas); holders of EU Settlement Scheme (“EUSS”) leave; those who have rights of entry under the Withdrawal Agreements (including returning residents with a right of residence under the EEA Regulations and EEA frontier workers); family members of EEA nationals with rights under the Withdrawal Agreement.
The Government of Botswana approved the phased lifting of international travel restrictions from 9 November 2020. However, travel restrictions related to new variants of the virus are still evolving. You should check the travel advice of any country you are planning to travel to, or transit, before starting your journey and to confirm flight schedules with your airline.
See Entry requirements
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Botswana.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements. You should contact local authorities for information on testing facilities.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Botswana
There is a nationwide curfew in place - with no movement of people, except those with a movement permit (for essential services), from 8pm to 4am.
Botswana is divided into nine COVID-19 zones and the Government of Botswana has restricted the movement of people. You will need to apply for an interzonal travel permit to travel between zones.
Travel within one of the nine COVID-19 zones, outside of the curfew times, does not require any special permissions.
You should comply with these requirements wherever you are staying in Botswana, and continue to follow the advice of the government and local authorities.
Air Botswana has resumed domestic flights.
The government may impose further localised lockdowns. You should monitor Government of Botswana’s Facebook page for updates on this.
If you have any questions, please contact the Government’s 24 hour COVID-19 helplines on 16649 / 0800 600 111.
Accommodation
Many hotels and other accommodation providers are open. FCDO advises that you contact your accommodation provider before booking to confirm what restrictions are in place.
Face coverings are compulsory in hotels and other accommodation. When entering the premises, you will also be need to have your temperature taken and sanitise your hands.
Public spaces and services
The Government of Botswana has extended the State of Public Emergency until 30 September.
There is a ban on the sale of alcohol in place.
The majority of shops, banks and restaurants continue to operate, with precautionary measures in place including the compulsory wearing of face coverings and a requirement to have your temperature taken and sanitise your hands.
Healthcare in Botswana
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
If you think you have COVID-19 symptoms, you should call the Government of Botswana’s COVID-19 Call Centre on 16649.
See Health for further details on healthcare in Botswana.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Botswana
We will update this page when the Government of Botswana announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Botswana national vaccination programme started in March 2021 and is using the AstraZeneca, Sinovac and Pfizer-BioNTech vaccines. British nationals resident in Botswana are eligible for vaccination if they choose to join the programme. The Government of Botswana has started a categorised roll out of COVID-19 vaccines. Citizens and residents are advised to self-register for COVID-19 vaccinations using the Republic of Botswana’s COVID-19 vaccination Self-Registration website. For further information on the vaccines used in Botswana, and their regulatory status, you should keep in touch with your local medical provider and see the website of the Botswana Medicines Regulatory Authority.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in Botswana, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
