This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Botswana set and enforce entry rules. For further information contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to. You should also consider checking with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Entry rules in response to coronavirus (COVID-19)
Entry to Botswana
Air travel has resumed to and from Sir Seretse Khama International Airport in Gaborone, Maun International Airport, Kasane International Airport and G. Matante International Airport in Francistown.
Ground crossings have resumed at the border posts of Tlokweng, Martin’s Drift, Pioneer Gate, Ramatlabama, Kazungula Road, Kazungula Ferry, Ngoma, Ramokgwebana, Mamuno, Mohembo, Bokspits, Kasane, Maitengwe, McCarthy’s, Point Drift, Plaatjan and Two Rivers. If you’re planning to enter neighbouring countries before or after you visit Botswana, you should refer to the travel advice for that country. Also check with your travel company for the latest information.
Screening on arrival
You must present proof of a negative COVID-19 PCR test not older than 72 hours from your time of departure from your country of origin. After arrival, you will have to remain in contact with the local health authority for a period of 14 days for self-monitoring. You should not use the NHS testing service to get a test in order to facilitate your travel to another country. You should arrange to take a private test. If you’re a returning citizen or resident and do not meet these requirements you will need to undergo 14 day mandatory quarantine and testing at your own expense. If you’re not a returning citizen or resident and do not meet these requirements you will denied entry.
At Botswana border points, all travellers, including children, will be required to undergo an additional cost-free COVID-19 test to gain entry to Botswana. If the test is positive or you show COVID-19 symptoms, you may need to undergo 14 days isolation or quarantine at your own expense.
COVID-19 entry and exit requirements may be announced and altered at little notice. You should monitor the government of Botswana’s Facebook page for the latest developments or contact the government of Botswana’s 24 hour COVID-19 helpline on 16649 / 0800 600 111.
Flights in to and out of Botswana from South Africa may be affected by South Africa’s own coronavirus (COVID-19) response. Follow our travel advice for South Africa for information on South African entry and transit requirements, and consult your nearest South African High Commission.
Quarantine requirements
Returning residents, including from the UK, may be subject to a 14-day mandatory quarantine period in government facilities at their own expense and compulsory COVID-19 testing.
Regular entry requirements
Visas
British nationals do not normally need a visa to enter Botswana for stays of up to 90 days.
Overstaying can cause delays on departure. If you wish to extend your stay, seek an extension from the Department of Immigration.
Passport validity
Your passport should be valid for a minimum period of 6 months from the date of entry into Botswana.
The Botswana government has stated that dual nationals using two different passports can only enter the country on the same passport they used to exit the previous country.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
Ebola
The Botswana government continues to impose measures to screen travellers arriving from Ebola affected countries. Travellers arriving from Ebola affected countries may be denied entry to Botswana or put into quarantine on arrival. Further information is available from the Botswana Ministry of Health.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are valid for entry into Botswana. However, unlike with a full validity UK passport, ETD holders must apply for the appropriate Botswana visa or be in possession of a residence permit before travelling to Botswana.
Travel to or from South Africa  
If you’re planning to enter South Africa before or after you visit Botswana, you should refer to the travel advice for South Africa.
Travelling with children
The Botswana government has introduced new immigration rules from 1 October 2016. Children (under 18 years of age) who are travelling into or through Botswana must provide a certified copy of their full unabridged birth certificate as well as a valid passport (an abridged (short) birth certificate won’t be accepted).
If the child is travelling with one parent, with another adult or unaccompanied, the parent or parents who aren’t present will need to provide an affidavit giving their consent for the child to travel. For more information please contact the Botswana Embassy.
Travelling with children via South Africa
If you’re transiting through South Africa with children, see our South Africa travel advice page for information and advice about the documents you’ll need to carry.
