At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Coronavirus
The Botswana authorities have introduced a number of precautionary measures in response to the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic.
From 16 March, individuals coming from countries affected by coronavirus, including the UK, will not be permitted to enter Botswana. Returning residents are exempt from these restrictions, but will be subject to a 14-day mandatory quarantine period. Visas will no longer be issued to nationals from countries affected by coronavirus. Current visas for those travelling from affected countries will be cancelled with immediate effect.
Many visitors from the UK travel to and from Botswana via South Africa. South Africa has put in place travel restrictions on individuals from countries affected by coronavirus , including the United Kingdom. Follow our travel advice for South Africa for information on South African entry requirements, and consult your nearest South African High Commission.
SA Express suspended flights between all destinations in Botswana and Johannesburg on 18 March 2020 until further notice. Check with the airline or your tour operator before travelling.
The Botswana authorities have also suspended public gatherings of more than 100 people for 30 days from 16 March and have advised members of the public to postpone non-essential travel in-country.
Keep up to date with information from your tour operator, transport or accommodation provider on the impact on any existing travel plans.
If you need further information about entry requirements, contact the local immigration authorities or nearest Botswana Embassy or High Commission. You should also check with your airline or travel company for the latest information.
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
Medical treatment
Health care in Botswana is good in major towns, but medical facilities and communications are limited in rural areas. For serious medical treatment, medical evacuation to the UK or South Africa may be necessary. Private hospitals will not treat patients unless you can pay, and the cost of health care may be high. Outpatients must pay cash before receiving treatment. You will only be accepted as an emergency patient if you have full insurance cover. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation.
Health risks
A rabies outbreak was reported in Ngamiland, in the Delta area of north west Botswana on 8 November. Further information on rabies can be found on the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) website.
There are occasional outbreaks of anthrax amongst wild animals. Don’t touch dead animals or carcasses. If you suspect that you have come into contact with anthrax, seek urgent medical advice.
If you intend to camp or walk in the bush you should be aware of the risk of tick bites.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 997 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
