Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

There are currently no commercial options available to return to the UK from Botswana. Medical evacuation flights remain possible. The Botswana authorities have also closed land border posts with neighbouring countries. Only citizens and residents will be allowed entry.
We know this is concerning for British people trying to leave Botswana. The British High Commission is in contact with airlines and local authorities to ensure British people can return to the UK from Botswana as soon as possible.
If you are a British national currently visiting Botswana and would like to return home to the UK, the British High Commission can update you when flight options become available by adding you to a mailing list. If you would like to receive these updates, please email Gaborone.Enquiries@fco.gov.uk with the subject heading ‘return from Botswana’ and include your: name, mobile telephone number, location, and any other relevant information. Please also check the British High Commission’s latest updates on Facebook and Twitter.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British High Commission from Monday to Friday from 8am-12pm on +267 761 290 42 and from 12pm-4pm on +267 760 299 41. Outside of these hours, please call +267 395 2841.
If you cannot leave Botswana at this time, you should:
follow the advice of local authorities, including on local measures to help minimise your risk of exposure to coronavirus. You can find the latest updates on Government of Botswana’s Facebook page
find accommodation that’ is suitable for your needs
keep in regular contact with family and friends at home, so they know you are safe and well
subscribe to our travel advice
Arrival in the UK
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Further information
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
