

Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. You should remain vigilant at all times.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Botswana
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Botswana, attacks cannot be ruled out.
Crime
Attacks on tourists are rare, but violent crime is increasing particularly in the major towns of Gaborone, Francistown and Maun. Criminals have also carried out hold-ups and robberies of restaurants during peak hours.
Protecting yourself and your belongings
Criminals may target cars waiting at traffic lights. To reduce the risk of attack:
keep doors locked and windows closed
keep handbags, phones and laptops out of sight
avoid carrying luggage in your vehicle whenever possible
do not stop for people at the roadside hitchhiking
House burglaries, often by armed gangs, are common. They do not often target tourists, but there have been isolated room break-ins and theft from lodges in the Chobe area, particularly river-fronting lodges. To reduce the risk of burglary or home invasion:
lock your room at all times
speak to your travel operator if your accommodation does not seem secure
secure valuables in a hotel safe or other safe place
Sexual assault
Botswana has a high number of sexual assaults. While foreign visitors are unlikely to be targeted, women should take care when walking and avoid walking alone at night.
Laws and cultural differences
Personal ID
Always carry some identification. A copy of the photo page in your passport is usually enough as long as you can produce the original if required.
If you send your passport for renewal, make sure you have a certified copy that you can present in its place.
Illegal drugs and prison sentences
Drug taking and trafficking are illegal. If you’re convicted of a drug-related offence, you can get a fine of up to 500,000 pulas (about £30,000) or a prison sentence of up to 25 years, or both. Prison conditions are generally poor.
Using cameras in secure areas
It is illegal to take photographs or use video equipment near military and government installations. Always ask permission before photographing people in Botswana.
LGBT+ travellers
Although same-sex sexual activity is no longer prohibited by law, public attitudes are less tolerant than in the UK and displaying affection in public may attract negative attention.
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Wildlife, animal products and souvenirs
It’s illegal to buy, sell, kill or capture any protected wild animal or trade its parts. If you’re caught hunting, buying or trafficking these goods you will be prosecuted. If you’re convicted, sentences can be severe.
Outdoor activities and adventure tourism  
If you travel to remote areas, make transport and accommodation arrangements in advance and seek local security advice. Take emergency supplies, including water and fuel, and be prepared for off-road driving conditions. In very remote areas, travel in convoy or with a satellite phone in case of breakdown.
On open highways, inside or outside wildlife reserves, there could be dangerous animals roaming that may behave unpredictably. Always follow park regulations and advice from park wardens.   
Do not bathe in rivers and lakes. You could be attacked by wild animals and you risk catching water-borne diseases.
Transport risks
Road travel
You can use a UK photocard driving licence to drive in Botswana. If you still have a paper driving licence, you may need to update it to a photocard licence or get the 1949 version of the international driving permit (IDP) as well. 
You can drive with a UK driving licence for up to 90 days. If you intend to stay longer than 90 days, apply for a Botswana driving licence.
Hire car companies often have stricter requirements for their customers, such as a year of driving experience, a higher minimum age and holding an IDP. 
Driving conditions
Botswana has good tarmac roads covering most of the country, but driving outside the major urban areas can be dangerous due to stray wildlife and livestock. This is a particular risk at night, so take extra care if you’re driving after dark.
The standard of driving is lower than in the UK. Many drivers ignore rules of the road. Speeding and drink-driving, or driving on drugs, cause frequent and often fatal accidents.
Taxis
To reduce risk of crime when using taxis, look for licensed taxis with blue plate numbers. Cabs run by a recognised taxi company will usually have branding and can be pre-booked.
Extreme weather and natural disasters
Flooding
Botswana experiences significant flooding during the rainy season from November to March. Some parts of the country become inaccessible except by 4-wheel-drive vehicles. Get local advice or hire a local driver who knows the water levels and which roads to use. 
