This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Botswana as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Botswana to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Botswana
The Government of Botswana declared a State of Public Emergency on 31 March, which has since been extended to six months.
A number of other measures in response to the coronavirus pandemic have been introduced, including legislation that makes it compulsory to wear masks / face coverings in public places, businesses and common areas of residential buildings.
There will be a further phased lifting of the lockdown restrictions from 15-22 May enabling schools and businesses to reopen under certain conditions.
The country is divided in to nine coronavirus zones. You require an individual travel permit to travel within these zones until 21 May. A different travel permit is required to travel between these coronavirus zones until 21 May. You should comply with these requirements wherever you are staying in Botswana and continue to follow the advice of the Government of Botswana and local authorities.
You can find the latest updates about the phased lifting of the lockdown restrictions, coronavirus zones, masks/face coverings guidance and travel permit forms on the Government of Botswana’s Facebook page.
Health
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Botswana.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Botswana, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
