The Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) advises against all but essential travel to:
the whole of Botswana based on the current assessment of COVID-19 risks
From 4am on Saturday 9 January, visitors arriving into the UK who have been in or transited through Botswana in the previous 10 days will not be permitted entry. British and Irish nationals, and third country nationals with residence rights in the UK arriving in England from Botswana will be required to quarantine in a hotel. Different requirements apply for arrivals into Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland.
The FCDO is not advising those already travelling in Botswana to leave at this time. Travellers should follow the advice of the local authorities on how best to protect themselves and others, including any measures that they bring in to control the virus. You should contact your tour operator or airline if you have any questions about your return journey.
Travel to Botswana is subject to entry restrictions
On arriving in Botswana, you must present proof of a negative COVID-19 PCR test performed no more than 72 hours prior to your arrival. After arrival, you will have to remain in contact with the local health authority for a period of 14 days for self-monitoring.
If you’re a returning citizen or resident and do not meet these requirements you will need to undergo 14 days mandatory quarantine and testing at your own expense. If you’re not a returning citizen or resident and do not meet these requirements, you will be denied entry.
All travellers, including children, will also be required to undergo an additional cost-free COVID-19 test at Botswana border points to gain entry to Botswana.
If the test is positive or you show COVID-19 symptoms, you may need to undergo 14 days isolation or quarantine at your own expense.
COVID-19 entry and exit requirements may be announced and altered at little notice. You should monitor the Government of Botswana’s Facebook page for the latest developments or contact the government of Botswana’s 24 hour COVID-19 helpline on 16649 / 0800 600 111.
See Entry requirements for more information before you plan to travel.
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
If you’re planning travel to Botswana, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCDO’s guidance on foreign travel insurance.
For information about COVID-19 vaccines, see the Coronavirus page.
Around 42,000 British nationals visit Botswana every year. Most visits are trouble free.
Wildlife and livestock on roads are a hazard, particularly at night. See Road travel
Carry some form of identification with you at all times. A photocopy of your passport is sufficient.
Attacks on tourists are rare, but you should take sensible precautions to protect yourself from petty and violent crime. See Crime
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Botswana, attacks cannot be ruled out. See Terrorism
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.
