Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Anguilla on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
Anguilla’s ports, sea and air, are open to returning residents and visitors.
Entry and borders
For current regulations on entering Anguilla, see Entry requirements.
Returning to the UK
Travelling from and returning to the UK
Check what you must do to travel abroad and return to England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
If you plan to pass through another country to return to the UK, check the travel advice for the country you’re transiting. If you will pass through a red list country, book your hotel quarantine package before travelling to the UK.
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements. You should contact the Anguilla Ministry of Health on +1 264 497 3930 for information on testing facilities.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there. See Healthcare in Anguilla for more information on what you must do if you receive a positive COVID-19 test.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Anguilla
Further information can be found on the Government of Anguilla COVID-19 website and the Government of Anguilla website.
COVID-19 Healthcare in Anguilla
The public are asked to call the COVID-19 hotline on + 1 264 476 7627 if you suspect you might have contracted the coronavirus, been exposed to the coronavirus, or have any questions relating to your health and coronavirus. Do not visit a healthcare facility unless instructed to. The Health Authority have also set up a dedicated COVID-19 information website.
You will be contacted by the Health Authority if you receive a positive COVID-19 test. The Health Authority will advise you whether you can self-isolate where you have been staying and for how long, along with anyone you are staying with, or whether you need to enter a government approved quarantine facility. You will need a negative test to leave self-isolation.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Anguilla
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Anguilla
The UK Government has been supplying vaccines to the people of the UK’s Overseas Territories. The Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) is the UK authority responsible for assessing the safety, quality and efficacy of vaccines. MHRA has temporarily authorised under Regulation 174 of Human Medicines Regulations 2012, the Pfizer/BioNTech and Astra Zeneca COVID-19 vaccine for supply in the UK, Crown Dependencies and Overseas Territories for use in Anguilla.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
If you need urgent assistance, see Emergency assistance
