This page has information on travelling to Anguilla. Check what you must do to return to the UK.
All travellers
Visas
British citizens don’t need a visa to enter Anguilla as a visitor, but accommodation must be booked prior to arrival. Visitors will be granted entry for a 3-month period. A work permit is required for any form of employment during your stay.
Passport validity
If you are visiting Anguilla, your passport should be valid for at least 6 months from the date you arrive. UK Emergency Travel Documents are accepted for entry to and exit from Anguilla.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Anguilla set and enforce entry rules. For further information contact the Government of Anguilla London Office. You should also check with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Departure tax
A departure tax is payable at the airport when departing Anguilla by air and at the ferry terminal when leaving Anguilla by sea to either French St. Martin or Dutch St. Maarten. The amount you pay is dependent on a number of factors including age, whether you are leaving Anguilla on a day trip or longer, and whether you are travelling to neighbouring French St. Martin, Dutch St. Maarten or elsewhere.
If you’re fully vaccinated
If you are 18 years and older, you must present evidence on arrival that you are fully vaccinated with an approved vaccine and that you received your last vaccination at least 14 days before arrival. Find out if you qualify as fully vaccinated on the Anguilla Tourist Board web page.
Additionally, you must provide acceptable evidence of a negative COVID-19 test (NAA/PCR/RNA test taken no more than 72 hours before entry) or Rapid Antigen (taken no more than 48 hours before entry). See information on the Anguilla Tourist Board web page about taking a test before travelling.
The tests must be administered by an accredited health professional and processed at an accredited laboratory. Self-administered home tests and antibody tests will not be accepted.
You should not use the NHS testing service to get a test in order to facilitate your travel to another country. You should arrange to take a private test.
If you have been fully vaccinated more than 6 months prior to your arrival in Anguilla and additionally have had a booster dose, you will not be tested on arrival.
If you have been fully vaccinated less than six months ago (and with your last vaccination at least 14 days before arrival), you will not be tested upon arrival.
If you have been fully vaccinated more than 6 months prior to your arrival in Anguilla, but have not had a booster dose, you are still considered fully vaccinated. However, you will be tested on arrival. The testing fee is US$50.
If you arrive in Anguilla without the appropriate documentation (proof of vaccination and test results), you will be required to return to your country of origin. If that is not possible, you will complete arrival and exit tests, and quarantine for 5 days at your own expense. You will also be charged US$200 by the Government of Anguilla in addition to any fines for unapproved entry.
Demonstrating your COVID-19 status
Anguilla will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 recovery and vaccination record and proof of COVID-19 vaccination issued in the Crown Dependencies. Your final vaccine dose must have been administered at least 14 days before arrival. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
Residents of Anguilla
If you are a returning Anguillian National and/or Resident (Anguilla Resident Stamp holders, work permit holders, retired homeowners) aged 18 years and older, you must present evidence on arrival that you are fully vaccinated with an approved vaccine. Find out if you qualify as fully vaccinated on the Anguilla Tourist Board web page.
Additionally, you must provide acceptable evidence of a negative COVID-19 test (NAA/PCR/RNA test taken no more than 72 hours before entry) or Rapid Antigen (taken no more than 48 hours before entry). See information on the Anguilla Tourist Board web page about getting a test before entry.
The tests must be administered by an accredited health professional and processed at an accredited laboratory. Self-administered home tests and antibody tests will not be accepted.
You should not use the NHS testing service to get a test in order to facilitate your travel to another country. You should arrange to take a private test.
If you have been fully vaccinated more than 6 months prior to your arrival in Anguilla and additionally have had a booster dose, you will not be tested on arrival.
If you have been fully vaccinated less than six months ago (and with your last vaccination at least 14 days before arrival), you will not be tested upon arrival.
If you have been fully vaccinated more than 6 months prior to your arrival in Anguilla, but have not had a booster dose, you are still considered fully vaccinated. However, you will be tested on arrival. The testing fee is US$50.
If you are a returning Anguillian National or Resident and arrive in Anguilla without the appropriate documentation (proof of vaccination and test results), you will complete arrival and exit tests, and quarantine for 5 days at your own expense. You will also be charged US$200 by the Government of Anguilla in addition to any fines for unapproved entry.
If you’re not fully vaccinated
If you are 18 years and older, you will not be allowed to enter Anguilla as a visitor if you are not fully vaccinated. The Anguilla Tourist Board web page outlines eligibility.
Residents of Anguilla
If you are an unvaccinated returning Anguillian National or Resident (Anguilla Resident Stamp holders, work permit holders, retired homeowners) aged 18 years and older, you will be required to apply in advance on the Anguilla Tourist Board entry portal, test on arrival, quarantine for 5 days and have a negative test to exit quarantine. You will be charged US$100 per person when applying.
The Anguilla Tourist Board web page sets out the application process and requirements.
Children and young people
If you have been fully vaccinated more than 6 months prior to your arrival in Anguilla and additionally have had a booster dose, you will not be tested on arrival.
If you have been fully vaccinated less than six months ago (and with your last vaccination at least 14 days before arrival), you will not be tested upon arrival.
If you have been fully vaccinated more than 6 months prior to your arrival in Anguilla, but have not had a booster dose, you are still considered fully vaccinated. However, additionally, you will be tested on arrival. The testing fee is US$50.
Unvaccinated visitors aged 17 years and under are only permitted to enter Anguilla if accompanied by a fully vaccinated adult aged 18 years and older.
Visitors aged 17 and under must provide acceptable evidence of a negative COVID-19 test (NAA/PCR/RNA test taken no more than 72 hours before entry) or Rapid Antigen (taken no more than 48 hours before entry). See information on the Anguilla Tourist Board web page about taking a test before travelling. The Anguilla Tourist Board are aware that certain countries and territories do not test children under a certain age. Children travelling from those countries and territories without a negative test must be accompanied by an adult aged 18 and over and will be tested on arrival. The testing fee is US$50.
Unvaccinated returning residents 4 years and under accompanied by a fully vaccinated adult aged 18 years and older will not be required to quarantine. They will be tested on Day 4 after arrival.
If you’re transiting through Anguilla
It is very unusual for visitors to transit through Anguilla. For further additional information you should contact the Anguilla Tourist Board.
Exemptions
If you are an unvaccinated visitor who may have a contraindication to the vaccine, you may apply for a medical exemption to enter Anguilla. You will be required to apply via the Anguilla Tourist Board entry portal.
If you are granted an exemption, you will be required to, test on arrival, quarantine for five days at your own expense and a have negative test to exit quarantine. You will be charged US$100 per person when applying.
There is no COVID-19 vaccination exemption for pregnant women.
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
If you are visiting or resident in Anguilla, your passport should be valid for at least 6 months from the date you arrive. UK Emergency Travel Documents are accepted for entry to and exit from Anguilla.
Check with your travel provider to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents are accepted for entry to and exit from Anguilla.
Returning to the UK
Check what you must do to return to the UK.
