At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each overseas territory page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in overseas territories. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the local territory government.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Coronavirus
The Anguillian authorities have introduced a number of precautionary measures in response to the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic.
Anguilla’s ports, sea and air, will close for all passenger movements for an initial 14 day period from 23:59 (local time) on Friday 20 March.
With effect 17 March all persons who have travelled outside of the Caribbean Region within the previous 14 days will be quarantined for 14 days on arrival. A judgement will be made on arrival by health professionals if this can be self-quarantined or quarantined in a Government run health facility.
With effect from 15 March all passengers arriving in Anguilla from Europe, irrespective of the route travelled, will be quarantined for 14 Days. An assessment will be made on arrival in Anguilla on whether individuals will be quarantined at home or in an approved facility.
With effect from 15 March cruise vessels with passengers who have been to Europe within in the last two weeks will not be allowed to dock, or otherwise disembark passengers.
The regular ferry service from Marigot Port (French St. Martin) to Blowing Point Ferry Port will be suspended from 19:00 (local time) on Tuesday 17 March until further notice. No direct private flights originating from any European country (including the UK) will be allowed to land in Anguilla from 23:59 (local time) on Tuesday 17 March.
Princess Juliana International Airport on the neighbouring island of Dutch St. Maarten will restrict the entry of incoming visitors from the US, Canada and Europe for 14 days with effect from Tuesday 17 March.
The Health Authority of Anguilla are asking the public to call the COVID-19 inquiries hotline on + 1 264 476 7627 if they suspect they might have contracted the coronavirus, been exposed to the coronavirus, or have any questions other matters relating to their health and cCorona virus. The public are asked to call the hotline and not visit a healthcare facility unless instructed to.
All schools are closed until 3 April and large gatherings, whether public or private, should not take place for 45 days from 15 March.
Visitors to Anguilla should follow local advice and guidance. We strongly encourage any non-resident visitors on holiday to Anguilla to consider leaving as soon as possible to avoid difficulties they will face if travel out of the territory and the wider region are further restricted and they are unable to get home.
Further information on these measures can be found at the Government of Anguilla website.
Information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
Health risks
UK health authorities have classified Anguilla as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For more information and advice, visit the website of the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
Medical treatment
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 911 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
There is one small hospital, one private day-hospital, 4 functioning public clinics (GP surgeries) and several private clinics on the Island. Patients requiring major surgery may need to be transferred to a neighbouring island.
Scuba divers should note that there are no facilities on the island for treating decompression sickness. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation.
