

Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.    
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Anguilla
Although there is no recent history of terrorism in Anguilla, attacks cannot be ruled out.
Crime
While crime levels in Anguilla are generally low, there has been a recent spike in serious gang-related crime involving guns and robbery. While risks are lower in tourist areas, some incidents have taken place in populated and public areas.
Take sensible precautions to protect yourself and belongings, including:
avoiding isolated areas after dark, including beaches
not showing resistance if you’re attacked
keeping doors and windows in your accommodation locked when out or at night
not carrying large amounts of cash or wearing expensive-looking jewellery
keeping valuables and travel documents in safety deposit boxes and hotel safes
If you are a victim of crime, Police and emergency services can be reached at 911.
Laws and cultural differences
Anguilla is a British Overseas Territory and has its own laws.
Illegal drugs penalties 
Similar to the UK, there are harsh penalties in Anguilla if you’re caught with illegal drugs.
Public nudity
Topless and nude sunbathing is illegal in Anguilla.   
LGBT+ travellers
Same-sex sexual activity is legal in Anguilla but there’s no provision for marriage or civil partnership. Hotels and resorts are generally welcoming of same-sex couples. Local attitudes can be conservative and same-sex couples showing affection in public may receive unwanted attention.  
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Swimming safety
See water safety on holiday from the Royal Life Saving Society. 
Scuba diving 
Diving schools may have limited resources and do not always observe safety and maintenance standards. Always: 
ask to see a dive operator’s credentials
check the conditions on your insurance policy – some policies require dive instructors to have certain qualifications
make sure safety equipment looks to be in good condition
make sure oxygen is available on the boat
There are no facilities for treating decompression sickness in Anguilla. Get advice on the safe depth for your dive.
If you have not had any previous diving experience, check what to do if something goes wrong, including how to call for help while at sea. 
Transport risks     
Road travel
There is no public transport in Anguilla, except for taxis. Hire cars are available. You need:
your UK driving licence
to buy a 25 US dollar local licence from a rental company, valid for 3 months
In Anguilla vehicles drive on the left, and some cars are left-hand drive.
Extreme weather and natural disasters
Hurricanes
The hurricane season in the Caribbean officially runs from 1 June to 30 November, though stormy weather can happen outside this period.
Follow the advice and evacuation orders of local authorities. Monitor the Facebook pages of the Governor’s Office and the Department for Disaster Management in Anguilla for updates.
Follow local news and check World Meteorological Organization weather reports for Anguilla and the US National Hurricane Center.
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to hurricanes.
