Coronavirus guidance is being updated.
Read the Prime Minister’s statement for the latest information.

This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Anguilla as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Anguilla to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Anguilla
For information on entering Anguilla, see Entry Requirements
The temporary restrictions on the movement of people and public gatherings were lifted on Wednesday 29 April. Further information on these measures can be found on the Government of Anguilla COVID-19 website and the Government of Anguilla website.
Health
The Health Authority of Anguilla are asking the public to call the COVID-19 inquiries hotline on + 1 264 476 7627 if they suspect they might have contracted the coronavirus, been exposed to the coronavirus, or have any questions other matters relating to their health and coronavirus. The public are asked to call the hotline and not visit a healthcare facility unless instructed to. The Health Authority have also set up a dedicated COVID-19 information website.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Anguilla
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
