Travel to Anguilla is subject to entry restrictions
Entry to Anguilla is restricted and must be pre-approved
As part of the approval process you must provide evidence of a negative COVID-19 test taken 3 to 5 days before your intended date of arrival in Anguilla
You will be tested for COVID-19 on arrival.
With effect 12 April people applying to enter Anguilla as an individual who can produce evidence that they have been fully vaccinated against COVID-19 and received their final dose 21 days before arrival, will be required to quarantine for 7 days on arrival. A negative COVID-19 test will be required before a person can leave quarantine.
With effect 12 April people applying to enter Anguilla in a group, all of whom can produce evidence that they have been fully vaccinated against COVID-19 and received their final dose 21 days before arrival, will be required to quarantine for 7 days on arrival. A negative COVID-19 test will be required before a person can leave quarantine.
With effect 12 April people applying to enter Anguilla who are travelling as part of a multi-generational family unit or as part of a group that contains a mixture of vaccinated and unvaccinated persons will be required to quarantine for 10 days on arrival. A negative COVID-19 test will be required before a person can leave quarantine.
Anguilla’s ports, sea and air, are closed for all regular inbound passenger movements until at least 17 April 2021. This date is kept under constant review and may be extended. Commercial outbound flights are permitted.
See Entry requirements for more information before you plan to travel.
Preparing for your return journey to the UK
If you’re returning to the UK from overseas, you will need to:
provide your journey and contact details before you travel
If your return journey to the UK transits another country, you should check whether it is subject to a travel ban or any other additional requirements. If so, contact your travel provider.
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
If you’re planning travel to Anguilla , find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCDO’s guidance on foreign travel insurance.
For information about COVID-19 vaccines, see the Coronavirus page.
Most visits to Anguilla are trouble-free. However, cases of robbery and other crimes do occur. See Crime
Anguilla is a British Overseas Territory. There is therefore no British diplomatic or consular representation. The local authorities deal with all requests for emergency assistance. See Emergency assistance
The hurricane season normally runs from June to November. You should monitor local and international weather updates from the US National Hurricane Centre and follow the advice of local authorities, including any evacuation orders. See Natural disasters
UK health authorities have classified Anguilla as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For more information and advice, visit the website of the National Travel Health Network and Centre.
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Anguilla, attacks cannot be ruled out. See Terrorism
