The Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advise against all but essential travel to:
Rakhine State, except the southern townships (administrative areas similar to a borough or county) of Kyaukpyu, Ramree, Munaung, Toungup, Thandwe (including the tourist resort of Ngapali) and Gwa.
Paletwa township, in southern Chin State, due to active armed conflict. If you’re visiting Mount Victoria in Mindat township, you should seek advice from tour operators or guides before travel.
Shan State (North), except Kyaukme town, Hsipaw town, and the train line from Mandalay to Kyaukme and Hsipaw. Please note that the town of Lashio and its airport are included in the area where the FCO advise against all but essential travel.
Kachin State (except the towns of Myitkyina, Bhamo and Putao) due to continued risk of armed conflict. On 15 May 2018 there were 2 explosions with no casualties on the train track between Mandalay and Myitkyina. See Local travel
You’re advised to be vigilant around the first anniversary (25 August 2017) of the attacks in Rakhine.
Political tension and unrest could happen at short notice. You should avoid all demonstrations and large gatherings. Don’t take photographs or videos of the police, demonstrations, military installations or military personnel. See Political situation
The situation in ethnic states where armed groups operate is volatile. There is ongoing conflict in the north of Shan State, and in Kachin State and Karen/Kayin State and there remains the possibility of violent clashes in other ethnic states.
Take particular care in the border areas with Thailand, Laos or China. There were several armed clashes in Karen/Kayin and Mon States in September 2014 and in Karen/Kayin State in July 2015. In September 2016 there were increased incidents of armed clashes in Kayin state. In May 2018 at least 20 people died in an armed clash in Muse near the border with China. See Local travel
Terrorists are likely to try to carry out attacks in Burma. See Terrorism
There are some parts of the country where British Embassy officials aren’t allowed to travel freely without permission from the Burmese government. The British Embassy’s ability to deliver consular assistance, including in an emergency, may be restricted or delayed in these areas.
UK health authorities have classified Burma as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For information and advice about the risks associated with Zika virus, visit the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
Credit and debit cards are increasingly accepted in major tourist areas but some cards don’t work. Check in advance that your card will work. See Money
Most visits are trouble-free.
The most common types of consular assistance are related to lost passports, petty theft and road accidents.
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.
Take out comprehensive travel and medical insurance before you travel.
