Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Honduras on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Honduras.
Travel in Honduras
There is no public transport available in Honduras. If you wish to move to or from the airport you have to hire a private taxi or driver.
There is a daily curfew from 10pm to 5am in place throughout the country until 6 June. Shopping and essential activities will be allowed from 5am to 10pm daily irrespective of your identification number, in all departments except Olancho. Visit the website of the Honduran Police if travelling to Olancho. Anyone circulating during curfew hours will be detained by local authorities.
Bars, discotheques and convention centres remain closed.
In banks, supermarkets, shopping centres (malls) and shops, capacity should not exceed 50%. There will be special schedules for older people, pregnant women and people with disabilities. Children are prohibited from entering shops.
The National Police has suspended the use and validity of Safe Passage letters or “Salvoconductos”. People may only travel during the authorised window. The Director General of the Police issued instructions to the Police Commands throughout the Honduran territory to coordinate, verify and supervise the strict compliance of all control and security measures.
British nationals should respect the curfew. It is mandatory to use facemasks, sanitary gel, and maintain social distancing in public. Ensure you have the documents for your hotel, car rental, tour or ticket reservations with you at all times. Local authorities may stop you and ask for documents confirming your travel plans.
You can keep up to date with the latest restrictions by visiting the official page where all important information about COVID-19 as well as all advice from the Honduran authorities can be found.
Accommodation
Some hotels are not open given the current situation. If you are trying to find a hotel in Honduras, please call in advance to confirm that they are taking reservations and to be informed of any measures or requirements they may have.
Public places and services
All public events remain suspended. All public gatherings remain suspended, except for religious activities. These may go ahead with precautions and measures suggested by the World Health Organization.
A number of businesses are closed. Supermarkets, some markets, small stores, pharmacies, hospitals, hotels, petrol stations, hardware stores, restaurants that offer delivery service and private banks remain open. Businesses that have permission to remain open must take precautions and keep people at least one meter apart from each other. In all cases, they must ensure that the number of people in these businesses do not exceed 50 people. Bars, discotheques and convention centres are not allowed to operate.
Honduran authorities have suspended academic activities in both public and private institutions.
Healthcare in Honduras
For the contact details of English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
If you think you have COVID-19 symptoms you should seek medical advice and check the official page where all important information about COVID-19 as well as all advice from the Honduran authorities can be found.
At present, public hospitals in San Pedro Sula and Tegucigalpa are at capacity, with no space for patients with COVID-19 or patients who require intensive care.
Some private hospitals are accepting patients with COVID-19, but it will cost 1,000,000 Lempiras (over £30,000) to be admitted, with the final medical bill potentially higher.
Small clinics provide testing, basic medical attention and medication to COVID-19 patients that present mild symptoms and do not require special medical care.
British-issued prescriptions cannot be used locally. To find a pharmacy (“farmacia”) look for one of the big national chains such as Farmacias Siman, Farmacias Kielsa or Farmacia El Ahorro, among others; a quick search online should help you to identify the nearest one open.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Honduras.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Honduras
As information is available about the national vaccination programme, this page will be updated.
The Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) is the UK authority responsible for assessing the safety, quality and efficacy of vaccines. It has authorised the Pfizer/BioNTech, Oxford/AstraZeneca and Moderna vaccines for temporary supply and use in the UK. Find out more about MHRA approval for these vaccines.
British nationals living overseas should seek medical advice from their local healthcare provider in the country where they reside. Information about vaccines used in other national programmes, including regulatory status, should be available from the local authorities. This list of Stringent Regulatory Authorities recognised by the World Health Organisation may also be a useful source of additional information. Find out more information about the COVID-19 vaccines on the World Health Organization COVID-19 vaccines page.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements.
Further information
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
