This page has information on travelling to Honduras.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport from the UK, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Honduras set and enforce entry rules. If you’re unsure how Honduras’ entry requirements apply to you, contact its UK embassy, high commission or consulate.
COVID-19 entry restrictions
COVID-19 entry requirements may change at short notice, you should check the specifics with your airline before you travel. Further details are available by contacting the National Institute of Migration in Honduras.
All travellers
All travellers entering or exiting Honduras must complete the immigration pre-clearance form. You will receive a confirmation email, which you should print and carry with you.
Local authorities will apply health protocols if a traveller presents symptoms of any infectious disease, including COVID-19. You may be asked to undertake a medical evaluation.
You must follow the social distancing rules and wear a mask at all times in all public places, including the airport.
All travellers need to comply with the exit requirements from Honduras as well as the entry requirements of their country of destination. See Returning to the UK.
Quarantine requirements
Obligatory quarantine rules may be applied. You should visit the website of the Health Authority and official COVID-19 page for more information.
Data collection
Upon arrival in Honduras, you will be asked to complete an immigration form where you will be required to provide the address where you will be staying. Local authorities will provide further instructions on any other details you should provide upon arrival.
If you’re fully vaccinated
If you’re fully vaccinated, you can enter Honduras without needing to test or quarantine.
You will need to show evidence that you have received a COVID-19 vaccine (vaccination card) indicating you have received two doses (or one dose if vaccinated with a one dose vaccine). The last dose must have been administered more than 14 days prior to the date of travel. The vaccine must be approved by the Honduras Ministry of Health or World Health Organisation.
Find out if you qualify as fully vaccinated in Honduras with the Honduran Embassy in the UK.
Proof of vaccination status
You must present proof that you have been fully vaccinated to qualify for entry to Honduras as a vaccinated traveller. If you do not have proof you will be treated as if you’re not vaccinated.
Honduras will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 recovery and vaccination record. Your final vaccine dose must have been administered at least 14 days prior to travel. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
If you’re not fully vaccinated
If you’re not fully vaccinated, you’ll need to show proof of a negative PCR or Antigen test (taken no more than 72 hours before entry) when entering Honduras. See information on getting a test before entry.
Find out if you qualify as fully vaccinated in Honduras with the Honduran Embassy in the UK.
You should not use the NHS testing service to get a test in order to facilitate your travel to another country. You should arrange to take a private test.
If you’ve had COVID-19 in the past month
If you have been diagnosed with COVID-19 in the past month, you must present a negative antigen test (taken no more than 72 hours prior travelling). If for some reason your result still shows as positive, you must present a medical certificate from the health clinic where you were treated, stating the date you were diagnosed with COVID-19 (including the copy of the test) and confirmation of your recovery. This is applicable whether you are fully vaccinated or not.
Children and young people
Children and young people travelling to Honduras must comply with the same requirements as adults.
Find out if you qualify as fully vaccinated in Honduras with the Honduran Embassy in the UK.
You should not use the NHS testing service to get a test in order to facilitate your travel to another country. You should arrange to take a private test.
If you’re transiting through Honduras
Transiting is when you pass through one country on the way to your final destination.
To transit Honduras, you must comply with the normal entry requirements (have proof of vaccination administered at least 14 days prior travelling or have a negative PCR or Antigen test taken no more than 72 hours before transiting).
Exemptions
There are no exemptions to the entry requirements for Honduras.
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
You should check with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Passport validity
Your passport should be valid for a minimum period of 6 months from the date of entry into Honduras.
Visas
British nationals do not need a visa to visit Honduras. You can get a 30 day visit entry stamp on arrival. You must ensure that you get your passport stamped on arrival to avoid complications on departure. If you wish to extend this you can do so up to a maximum of 90 days by applying at an Immigration Office.
If you overstay you should expect to pay a fine at the Immigration Office when you apply to extend your stay or before departure. For information on which office to go to and how to follow this process, contact the National Institute of Migration.
For more information on entry requirements for other purposes, such as voluntary work, contact the Honduran Embassy in London at hondurasembassyuk@gmail.com.
Travelling with Children
Children travelling with only one parent or without either parents or legal guardians must present a notarised letter of consent from the non-travelling parent(s) or legal guardian(s) to enter and exit Honduras. Contact the nearest Embassy or Consulate of Honduras, or if you are in Honduras the nearest National Institute of Migration, for information about the process and language requirements for consent documents.
Central America Border Control Agreement
Honduras is party to the Central America Border Control Agreement (CA-4). Under the terms of this agreement, British tourists can travel within any of the CA-4 countries (El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua) for a period of up to 90 days which starts at the first point of entry of any of the CA-4 countries. They will be subject to immigration checks at the border (which does not interrupt or restart the 90-day count). Fines are applied for travellers who exceed this 90-day limit, although a request for an extension can be made for up to 30 days by paying a fee before the 90 day limit expires. If you are expelled from any of the four countries you are also excluded from the entire CA-4 region.
Land borders
If you arrive or depart at a land border, the immigration authorities may charge you a fee of US$3 at the border crossing. Keep the receipt until you leave the country and make sure your passport is stamped.
You may experience some disruptions at the land border crossings between Honduras and Guatemala, due to the passage of migrant caravans.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
Departure tax
There is a US$48.44 (or Lempira equivalent) airport departure tax which should be included in the price of the ticket (if not, be prepared to pay this in cash or with a credit card). There is also an airport departure tax for domestic flights of 54.13 Lempiras (or the equivalent in US dollars).
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are accepted for entry and exit from Honduras. ETDs must also have a minimum period of six months validity from the date you enter Honduras. If you are travelling via the United States of America on an ETD, you will need to get a US visa. For more information, please contact the US Embassy in Guatemala.
