

If you have a health condition, or you are pregnant, you may need specialist healthcare abroad. Check whether your destination country can provide the healthcare you may need and ensure you have appropriate travel insurance for unexpected medical evacuation or local treatment.
See the Coronavirus travel health and Healthcare sections in the Coronavirus page for COVID-19 health information.
At least eight weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you are abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you are travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you will need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you are travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
UK health authorities have classified Honduras as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For more information and advice visit the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
Standards of medical treatment vary. State-funded hospitals are under-funded and medicines are in short supply. Health insurance is required and you should carry evidence of your insurance at all times. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation. You should use private clinics where possible, though these are only available in major towns.
Dengue fever epidemics occur every four to five years in Honduras due to its tropical and subtropical climates. In 2019, Honduras saw a sharp increase in cases of dengue fever, especially in children. For information on avoidance please visit the National Travel Health Network and Centre Website
Cases of Chikungunya virus have been confirmed in Honduras. You should take steps to avoid being bitten by mosquitoes.
Malaria is common in remote, low-lying parts of the country.
Information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
Unfiltered water is not generally safe to drink but bottled water is cheap and widely available.
There is a hyperbaric decompression chamber on Roatán and there are decompression facilitates on the Bay Island of Utila. However, emergency medical facilities on the Bay Islands are extremely limited.
In the 2010 Report on the Global AIDS Epidemic the UNAIDS/WHO Working Group estimated that around 376,000 adults aged 15 or over in Honduras were living with HIV; the prevalence percentage was estimated at around 0.8% of the adult population compared to the prevalence percentage in adults in the UK of around 0.2%. Exercise normal precautions to avoid exposure to HIV/AIDS.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 911 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
