Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

UK special flight
The UK will operate a special flight from San Pedro Sula on Friday 1 May for British tourists, short term visitors and their direct dependants to return to the UK. Flights from Roatan and Utila to San Pedro Sula will be organised to connect British nationals booked on the special flight.
the flight costs £800 per person. This will include the cost of flights from the Bay Islands
to be eligible for this flight, you must be normally resident in the UK. Your eligibility will be checked before your tickets are issued
If you wish to travel, register to book tickets on the CTM website as soon as possible.
If you have difficulty booking online, you can text CTM on +44 7537 416 124 with your name and you will receive a call back.
To book flights, you will need:
full passport and contact details of each traveller for whom you are registering
the means to pay the cost of the flight, and credit or debit card details
your UK home address and postcode
your full current address in Honduras
If you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM) via SMS on +44 (0) 20 7429 9725 to receive a call back. CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Your seat on a flight is not confirmed until you receive an email confirmation telling you this.
Tickets will not be on sale at the airport. Do not travel to the airport without a confirmed ticket.
You may find it helpful to read our guide to eligibility and the booking process for special charter flights.
Travel to the airport
The British Embassy is organising flights on Friday 1 May from the islands of Roatan and Utila to meet the flight departing from San Pedro Sula. If you are on one of these islands and wish to return to the UK, contact Consular.Honduras@fco.gov.uk with your details.
The Embassy will provide an official safe conduct letter (salvoconducto) that will allow you to travel within Honduras in order to catch the flights.
The Embassy can also put you in touch with taxi and transport companies recommended by the Honduran government. If you have any questions about travelling within Honduras, contact the Embassy’s consular team: consular.honduras@fco.gov.uk.
Arrival in the UK
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Travel via the USA
Some British nationals have successfully flown out of Honduras on commercial flights to the US. If you are considering this option, you should contact your nearest US embassy or consulate to check if you have the necessary entry requirements before getting on a flight. Be aware that you may not be permitted to enter the US if you have been in the UK, Europe or China in the past 15 days.
If you cannot leave Honduras
If you cannot leave Honduras at this time, you should:
follow the advice of local authorities, including local measures to help minimise your risk of exposure to coronavirus
find accommodation that’s suitable for your needs.
keep in regular contact with family and friends at home, so they know you are safe and well
See more information and advice about staying where you are if you cannot return to the UK.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British Embassy at consular.Honduras@fco.gov.uk
The Embassy cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone. This page will be updated when departure options become available. To get the latest information, sign up for travel advice email alerts.
Further information
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
