

Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.   
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Honduras
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Honduras, attacks cannot be ruled out.
Political situation
Protests can happen anywhere in Honduras. Although normally peaceful, these can rapidly turn violent with a general breakdown in law and order, including looting. The police have frequently responded with tear gas and there have been deaths and injuries.
Although protests are normally restricted to the main cities (especially Tegucigalpa, San Pedro Sula and La Ceiba), the authorities can set up roadblocks anywhere at short notice and these cause significant travel disruptions. Your travel plans may be affected at short notice.
It is illegal for foreigners to participate in political activities. If you take part in protests, you may be detained and deported. Avoid all demonstrations and protests and do not try to pass through blockades. Follow the advice of local authorities and your tour operator or airline and monitor local and social media.
Crime
There are high levels of crime in Honduras. Most serious crime does not affect tourists, but there have been attacks on foreigners, including armed robbery and sexual assault. Attacks can take place anywhere at any time.
Protecting yourself and your belongings
Petty theft is a problem in cities and tourist areas, including the Bay Islands (Roatán, Utila and Guanaja). Avoid walking around Tegucigalpa, San Pedro Sula and other main towns and cities in mainland Honduras. Be particularly careful at bus stations, airports, isolated beaches, tourist sites and on public transport. Keep your valuables locked away in a safe if possible. Avoid displaying valuable items like jewellery, cameras, tablets, laptops and mobile phones.
ATM crime
Criminals have robbed foreigners after they’ve withdrawn money at ATMs.
ATMs are available in the major towns. Check with your hotel which ATMs to use, especially in Roatán. It is safer to withdraw money from ATMs in shopping centres and to change money in hotels or banks. Check ATMs for evidence of tampering, although affected machines may not be easy to spot. Do not withdraw a lot of money at one time and avoid withdrawals at night.
People have been killed and injured resisting criminals. It is useful to carry a small amount of money to hand out if you’re robbed.
Violent attacks against vehicles
There have been violent attacks on people in cars and buses. Using a reputable tour company for longer journeys may reduce the risks. For shorter distances, use radio-dispatched taxis or hotel taxis. It is generally safer to travel on main roads between major cities and tourist destinations.
Take precautions such as:
locking vehicle doors
keeping windows closed
not travelling after dark
travelling in convoy
not picking up hitchhikers
Take care if you’re travelling alone. In remote areas it may be safer to travel with others or join a tour. Do not accept lifts from strangers or hitchhike.
Avoid travelling on public buses (repainted US school buses). There has been an increase in armed attacks by local gangs on bus drivers and conductors, often resulting in serious injury or death. There have been violent muggings, rape and assault against foreigners on these buses. Private intercity coach services are safer but not immune from attack.
There have been attacks on roads:
from Limones to La Union
from Olancho via Salama to Saba
from Gualaco to San Esteban
from La Esperanza to Gracias
in the Department of Santa Barbara
in and around Tela, La Ceiba, Trujillo and El Progreso
Scams
Scam artists target foreign visitors and residents. The scams come in many forms and can cause great financial loss. Warn your friends and family to be sceptical if they’re asked to transfer funds to you in Honduras. Tell them to contact you to check that you’ve made this request.
State of exception (emergency) 
As part of its plan to address extortion, the Honduras government announced a state of exception (emergency) in December 2022. This measure has been repeatedly extended and remains in place, affecting over 100 municipalities across the country.
During this time there may be restrictions on freedom of movement and other rights in the affected municipalities. Get more advice from your travel operator. You must always carry ID and be prepared for checkpoints.
You should:
allow extra time to reach your destination
monitor local media for updates and information on restrictions
avoid crowds or demonstrations
always co-operate with military and police officers
Laws and cultural differences
Personal ID and travel documents
Always carry photo ID. Carry a copy of the photo and visa pages of your passport with you. Leave the original in a safe place.
Make sure you always have the documents for your hotel, car rental, tour or ticket reservations. Local authorities may stop you and ask for documents confirming your travel plans. 
Illegal drugs and prison sentences
There are severe penalties for drug trafficking (15 to 20 years in prison and a very large fine) and drug use (from 3 to 9 months in a rehabilitation centre). Honduran prisons are overcrowded and violent.
LGBT+ travellers
Same-sex sexual activity is not illegal. There are no laws guaranteeing freedom from discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation. There is no recognition of same-sex marriage. People in the capital, Tegucigalpa, are largely tolerant of individuals’ personal lifestyles and accept small signs of affection between same-sex couples. There is a more conservative attitude outside the capital and showing affection in public is not recommended.
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Money
US dollars are widely accepted for exchange and payment. It is difficult to exchange British pounds in Honduras. 
Outdoor activities and adventure tourism
Scuba diving accidents
There is a hyperbaric (recompression) chamber on Roatán and there are recompression facilities on the Bay Island of Utila. However, emergency medical facilities on the Bay Islands are extremely limited.
Transport risks
Road travel
If you are planning to drive in Honduras, see information on driving abroad. 
You can use a UK photocard driving licence to drive in Honduras for up to 3 months. If you still have a paper driving licence, you may need to update it to a photocard licence or get the correct version of the international driving permit (IDP) as well.
Hire car companies often have stricter requirements for their customers, such as a year of driving experience, a higher minimum age and holding an IDP. 
Make sure you have adequate insurance.
If you are involved in an accident, contact the police or the fire brigade (telephone: 911), stay with your vehicle and wait for the police to arrive. If you’re in a serious accident, you may be taken into custody regardless of responsibility. Seek legal help and inform the British Embassy in Guatemala.  Take full details of the other driver (who may not be insured), and do not rely solely on the vehicle’s number plate.
Driving conditions
Driving standards in Honduras are generally poor. Avoid road travel at night. Many vehicles travel without lights, and animals often wander across roads causing accidents. You may need a 4-wheel drive vehicle if you are not travelling on main roads.
Public buses are often poorly maintained, overcrowded and recklessly driven. Accidents are common and sometimes fatal. Luxury buses, operated by private companies, are usually better maintained.
Some roads remain damaged by hurricanes that struck in 2020.
Air travel 
Airlines in Honduras can change their schedules at short notice. Before you travel, check with your airline or travel agent.
Extreme weather and natural disasters
Drought, forest fires and flash flooding are common in Honduras.
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards. 
Hurricanes
The hurricane season in Honduras normally runs from June to November. Landslides and flooding can affect roads throughout the country. Monitor local weather reports and check the warnings from the US National Hurricane Center. Follow the advice of local authorities, including any evacuation orders. See the Honduran national civil protection website COPECO (Spanish language website).
Earthquakes
Earthquakes are a risk in Honduras. The US Federal Emergency Management Agency website has advice about what to do before, during and after an earthquake and tsunami.
