Coronavirus guidance is being updated.
Read the Prime Minister’s statement for the latest information.

This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Honduras as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Honduras to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Honduras
For information on entering Honduras, see Entry Requirements
All 18 departments of Honduras now have confirmed cases of COVID-19. The first case was confirmed in the Gracias a Dios department on 13 June.
A curfew is in place until 28 June 2020. The curfew is stricter in areas where there are confirmed cases: Choluteca, La Ceiba, Distrito Central, San Pedro Sula, Puerto Cortés, Santa Cruz de Yojoa and El Triunfo.
All public events remain suspended. All public gatherings remain suspended, except for religious activities which may go ahead with precautions and measures suggested by the World Health Organization.
All businesses are closed, except supermarkets, markets, small stores, pharmacies, hospitals, hotels, petrol stations and private banks. Businesses that have permission to remain open must take precautions and keep people at least one meter apart from each other. In all cases, they must ensure that the number of people in these businesses do not exceed 50 people.
Honduran authorities have suspended academic activities in both public and private institutions.
The curfew has been extended until Sunday 28 June at 11 pm.
Businesses in authorised sectors will be permitted to open Monday to Friday each week. Shopping and essential activities will be permitted from 9am to 5pm according to the last digit of an individual’s Honduran national identity card or passport number for foreigners. Please visit the Police website for more information on these measures and for weekly reports.
The elderly, pregnant women, and individuals with disabilities will be able to exclusively access authorised businesses from 7am to 9am and banks from 9am to 10am on the day which corresponds to the last number of their identification.
All British nationals are strongly encouraged to respect the curfew. It is mandatory to use facemasks, sanitary gel, and maintain social distancing in public.
You can keep up to date with the latest restrictions by visiting the official page where all important information about COVID-19 as well as all advice from the Honduran authorities can be found.
Health
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Honduras.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Honduras, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
The Honduran authorities request that people keep up to date with the latest restrictions by visiting the following official page where all important information about COVID-19 as well as all advice from the Honduran authorities can be found.
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
