Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

The FCO advise against all but essential travel to the whole country.

Coronavirus: stay up to date
Cases of coronavirus (COVID-19) have been confirmed in Honduras. The Honduran authorities have introduced a number of measures to limit the spread of the virus. See information on measures introduced in Honduras.
Find out how to return to the UK from Honduras.
See coronavirus travel advice for guidance on international travel.
Sign up for email alerts for Honduras travel advice.
Honduras has closed its land, air and maritime borders for the transit of people. Borders are only open for the transportation of cargo and supplies. All public events are suspended.
These measures include a curfew which will last until 12 April 2020. The curfew is stricter in areas where there are confirmed cases: Choluteca, La Ceiba and Distrito Central, with San Pedro Sula, Puerto Cortés, Santa Cruz de Yojoa and El Triunfo added to the list on 19 March.
The British Embassy continues to work closely with the Honduran authorities and commercial airlines on all possible options for a return to the UK for British nationals in Honduras. As part of their efforts, they are inviting British people in Honduras to send their email address to Consular.Honduras@fco.gov.uk. They will use this information to inform British nationals of the availability of outgoing flights secured through diplomatic permissions. They will communicate this to those who have contacted the Embassy via Consular.Honduras@fco.gov.uk and through social media channels.
We are aware that British Nationals have successfully flown out of Honduras on commercial flights to the US. If you are considering this option, you should contact your nearest US embassy or consulate to check if you have the necessary entry requirements before getting on a flight. Be aware that you may not be permitted to enter the US if you have been in the UK, Europe or China in the past 15 days.
There is no British Embassy in Honduras. Consular support may be limited in Honduras, with the exception of Tegucigalpa and the Bay Islands, and severely limited in more remote areas. See Consular assistance
There is a risk of Dengue fever in Honduras. For information on avoidance, please visit the National Travel Health Network and Centre Website
Protests can happen anywhere in Honduras. Although normally peaceful, these can rapidly turn violent and be accompanied by a general break-down in law and order, including looting. The police have frequently responded with tear gas; deaths and injuries have also been reported. Although the protests are normally restricted to the main cities (especially Tegucigalpa, San Pedro Sula and La Ceiba), road blocks can occur anywhere at short notice, and can cause significant travel disruptions; Tegucigalpa’s Tocontin airport was also closed for most of a day in late May 2019. Military police and the army were deployed across the country to restore law and order.
Travel plans may be impacted at short notice. You should avoid all demonstrations, and do not try to pass through blockades. You should follow the advice of local authorities and your tour operator or airline, and monitor local and social media for updates.
Airlines sometimes modify their schedules at short notice. You should check with your airline before you travel.
The “El Florido” border and the road to the town of Copan are only open from 6am to 9pm. Please monitor the situation with your tour operator and with the local authorities (COPECO) and the National Institute of Migration.
The rainy season normally runs from June to November, coinciding with the hurricane season in the Caribbean. See Natural disasters
UK health authorities have classified Honduras as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For more information and advice visit the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
Crime and violence are a serious problem throughout Honduras and the country has one of the highest homicide rates in the world. You should exercise a high degree of caution. See Crime
Avoid travelling on public buses (repainted US school buses). Private inter-city coach services are safer but not immune from attack. See Road travel
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Honduras, attacks can’t be ruled out. See Terrorism
4,153 British nationals visited Honduras in 2016. Most visits are trouble free.
You can contact the emergency services by calling 911 (if you need the police, need an ambulance or need to report a fire).
Take out comprehensive travel and medical insurance before you travel.
