Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Tanzania on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
Commercial flights are operating to and from Tanzania. The government of Tanzania announced on 18 May that it had lifted the ban on international flights arriving and departing Tanzania. Major carriers have now resumed flights to Tanzania, though in some cases on a reduced schedule. Check with your travel company or contact the airlines directly for more information.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Tanzania.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements. You should contact local authorities for information on testing facilities. Tests can be booked on the Tanzanian government online booking system .
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Tanzania
The Tanzanian government last released numbers on COVID-19 cases or deaths on 29 April.
If you’re in Tanzania, you should continue to take sensible precautions and preventive steps to reduce the risk of infection. Limit your movements and the number of visitors entering your accommodation. You should visit the NaTHNaC and WHO websites for further advice.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Tanzania to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Accommodation
Some hotels remain closed for the time being. You should contact your accommodation provider for more information.
Public spaces and services
There are no restrictions on public gatherings or services. Some hotels, bars and restaurants remain closed for the time being. You should continue to practice measures recommended by PHE such as hand washing and social distancing.
Healthcare in Tanzania
Due to a rise in the number of coronavirus cases in Tanzania, medical facilities and personnel are under strain throughout the country. The availability of treatment for non-coronavirus-related illnesses, particularly for non-urgent care, has been adversely impacted. There have been instances during the COVID-19 outbreak when hospitals in Dar es Salaam reached full capacity due to the high volume of COVID-19 cases. Limited hospital capacity throughout Tanzania could result in life-threatening delays for emergency medical care.
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers. If you think you have COVID-19 symptoms, you should contact your healthcare provider for further advice.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Tanzania.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Tanzania
Tanzania has not yet approved any vaccines for use. As information is available about the national vaccination programme, this page will be updated.
The Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) is the UK authority responsible for assessing the safety, quality and efficacy of vaccines. It has authorised the Pfizer/BioNTech, Oxford/AstraZeneca and Moderna vaccines for temporary supply and use in the UK. Find out more about MHRA approval for these vaccines.
British nationals living overseas should seek medical advice from their local healthcare provider in the country where they reside. As and when vaccines are given regulatory approval, information about national programmes should be available from the local authorities. This list of Stringent Regulatory Authorities recognised by the World Health Organisation may also be a useful source of additional information. Find out more information about the COVID-19 vaccines on the World Health Organization COVID-19 vaccines page.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
