This page has information on travelling to Tanzania.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport from the UK, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Tanzania set and enforce entry rules. If you’re unsure how Tanzania’s entry requirements apply to you, contact its UK embassy, high commission or consulate.
All travellers
All travellers including Tanzanians, returning residents and members of the crew/layovers are required to truthfully fill in an online Traveller’s Health Surveillance Form for Tanzania mainland.
If you’re fully vaccinated
Travellers entering Union Republic of Tanzania including Tanzanians, returning residents and those in transit through land borders who are fully vaccinated, will be exempted from both RT PCR and Rapid Antigen Test requirements. Travellers will be required to present a valid vaccination certificate with QR code for verification upon arrival. The only accepted vaccines are those which have been approved by the URT and the World Health Organization.
Proof of vaccination status
You must present proof that you have been fully vaccinated to enter Tanzania. Travelers will be required to present a valid vaccination certificate with QR code for verification upon arrival. The only accepted vaccines are those which have been approved by the URT and the World Health Organization.
You can use the UK COVID Pass to demonstrate your vaccination record when entering Tanzania.
If you’re not fully vaccinated
Non-fully vaccinated, unvaccinated and those not eligible for vaccination will be required to present a negative COVID-19 RT- PCR or NAATs certificate with QR code obtained within 72 hours before departure.
If travellers originate from countries listed on the Ministry of Health website will be tested for COVID 19 upon arrival using a Rapid Antigen Test at their own cost of 10 USD (TZS 23,000) for Tanzania mainland.
If found positive they will be tested with RT- PCR for confirmation, allowed to self-isolate and the results will be sent via email or any other means.
Non-fully vaccinated/unvaccinated and with no negative COVID 19 RT- PCR certificate will be dealt as follows;
i. In case of air transport and International marine vessels will be tested for COVID-19 using RT PCR test at their own cost of 100 USD for Tanzania Mainland. Results will be sent to them while self-isolated.
ii. In case of International, regional and inland vessels will be tested by Rapid Antigen Test at their own cost of 10 USD while positive will be further confirmed by RT- PCR at a cost of 50 USD for Tanzania Mainland.
iii. In case of ground crossing, will be tested by Rapid Antigen Test at their own cost of 10 USD and if found positive will be handled according to Bilateral and Joint Border agreements.
Children aged 5 years and below will be exempted from both RT PCR and Rapid Antigen Tests requirements.
Travellers to URT who require Rapid Antigen Test on arrival are advised to pay online to avoid unnecessary queues via an automatically generated control number obtained after filling the online Traveller’s Health Surveillance Form.
Travellers with a symptomatic positive Rapid Antigen will be isolated for treatment at designated health facilities as per National COVID-19 Treatment Guideline.
Travellers in transit by air transport are exempted from both vaccination and COVID 19 testing requirements unless stated otherwise by the conveyance to be used or countries of their final destinations. All departing travellers are advised to seek information prior to departure from travel agent regarding COVID-19 requirements of their country of destination or conveyance to be used.
Children and young people
Children aged 5 years and under will be exempted from both RT PCR and Rapid Antigen Tests requirements.
If you’re transiting through Tanzania
Transiting is when you pass through one country on the way to your final destination.
Travellers in transit by air are exempted from both vaccination and COVID 19 testing requirements unless stated otherwise by the airline to be used or country of their final destination.
Exemptions
There are no exemptions to Tanzania’s entry requirements.
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
Passport validity
If you are visiting Tanzania, your passport should be valid for 6 months from the date you arrive.
If you are a resident in Tanzania, your passport must be valid for 6 months from the date you arrive.
Check with your travel provider to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Visas
All British passport holders need a tourist or business visa to enter Tanzania. Tanzania has introduced an ‘e-visas’ system through which applications can be submitted and approved online in advance of travel. It is no longer possible to get a visa from the Tanzanian High Commission in London.
It is also possible to get a tourist or business visa for a single entry on arrival at main ports of entry to Tanzania, subject to the fulfilment of all immigration requirements. You may be asked to provide proof of your return journey. You will not be able to get a multiple entry visa on arrival. For further information about visas visit the Tanzanian immigration website.
If you are planning to work or volunteer, you will need a valid work permit which can also be applied for online via the Tanzanian immigration website. Your employer or volunteer organisation should arrange this before you travel.
If you overstay the validity of your visa or permit you can be arrested, detained and fined before being deported. Reports made to the British High Commission by Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic (BAME) British passport holders have indicated that they are experiencing additional levels of harassment from immigration officials. In these circumstances, you should stay calm and request that the Consular section of the British High Commission is immediately informed.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents, with a minimum of six months’ validity, are accepted for entry, airside transit and exit from Tanzania.
