At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Coronavirus
Cases of coronavirus (COVID-19) have been confirmed in Tanzania. As such, we recommend avoiding or limiting travel within Tanzania, where possible. The Tanzanian authorities have introduced a number of precautionary measures to limit the spread of the virus.
The Government of Tanzania have put in place strengthened screening measures at airports for all passengers arriving into Tanzania’s three international airports (Dar es Salaam, Kilimanjaro and Zanzibar). You will need to provide personal details and be subject to a temperature check.
The Government of Tanzania is implementing mandatory quarantine for anyone arriving from high risk countries, even for those without symptoms. We are seeking clarification from the Government of Tanzania as to whether this includes the UK. You should comply with any additional screening measures put in place by the authorities.
The government has also banned public gatherings, closed schools and universities, and suspended sporting competitions.
Keep up to date with information from your tour operator, transport or accommodation provider on the impact on any existing travel plans. If you need further information about entry requirements, contact the nearest Tanzanian High Commission/Consulate. You should also check with your airline or travel company for the latest information.
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
Medical treatment
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 112 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
Medical facilities are limited, especially outside Dar es Salaam. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of medical treatment abroad, evacuation by air ambulance and repatriation.
Health risks
Visitors to the region should be aware that on 1 August 2018 an outbreak of Ebola was confirmed in eastern DRC in North Kivu Province, originating in Béni territory. New cases continue to be reported across the affected areas. On 17 July 2019, the World Health Organisation (WHO) declared the outbreak in DRC to be a Public Health Emergency of International Concern (PHEIC). On 11 June 2019 the Ugandan Ministry of Health confirmed an outbreak of Ebola in Kasese District in western Uganda. The latest updates can be found on the WHO website.
A person died in Tanzania in September 2019. It appears probable that this was an Ebola-related death. As of 31 October 2019, there is no evidence of ongoing active transmission of Ebola in Tanzania. You should monitor the Public Health England (PHE) website for the latest updates.
Public Health England has updated its guidance for humanitarian or healthcare workers travelling to countries at risk of Ebola.
Passengers travelling from the DRC and Uganda may be subject to health screening at ports of entry in Tanzania.
Malaria, dengue fever and cholera are common in Tanzania.
There have also been cases of sleeping sickness occurring after bites from tsetse flies in the north, including the Serengeti. Other diseases, such as rift valley fever, occur mostly in rural areas where access to sanitation is limited.
In the 2015 Report on the Global AIDS Epidemic, the UNAIDS/WHO Working Group estimated that around 1,400,000 adults aged 15 or over in Tanzania were living with HIV; the prevalence percentage was estimated at around 4.7 of the adult population. You should exercise normal precautions to avoid exposure to HIV/AIDS.
