Coronavirus guidance is being updated.
Read what you can and cannot do

This page gives you guidance on how to return to the UK from Tanzania including information on special flights and support from the UK government.
Tanzania’s land borders are closed and international and domestic flights are suspended. There are currently no commercial options available to leave Tanzania.
UK special flights
A special flight will depart from Julius Nyerere International Airport (JNIA), Dar Es Salaam on 20 May to the UK.
The flight cost is £576 per person. All passengers must pay for their tickets.
These flights are for:
British nationals, normally resident in the UK
dependants travelling with a British national
Vulnerable British nationals will be prioritised.
Vulnerable non-British UK residents with Indefinite Leave to Remain, and other foreign nationals, may be accommodated if there is sufficient capacity.
Your eligibility, including your UK address, will be checked before your tickets are issued.
How to book
CTM are working on behalf of the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) to manage special flight bookings.
If you wish to travel, you must book tickets on the CTM website.
The CTM booking website is only available to British nationals. If you have difficulty registering or making payment online, you are a vulnerable non-British UK resident with Indefinite Leave to Remain, or another foreign national, you will need to contact the CTM team. To do so, send an SMS text message containing only your full name to +44(0)753 745 3869 A member of the CTM team will then be in touch. Some international phone charges may apply.
If you have difficulty booking online, send CTM an SMS text message containing ONLY your full name to +44(0)753 745 3869 A member of the CTM booking team will get in touch to assist you. Some international phone charges may apply.
To book flights on the CTM website, you will need:
full passport and contact details for each traveller
your UK home address and postcode
your means of payment, such as credit or debit card details.
Please note that payment does not guarantee you a place on a flight. You will be entitled to a refund if you are not given a seat on the flight.
Tickets will not be on sale at the airport. Do not travel to the airport without a confirmed ticket.
You may find it helpful to read our guide to eligibility and the booking process for special charter flights.
Booking confirmation and travel to the airport
After your booking has been made CTM will send you an email with all the details including what time you need to be at the airport. You will be sent a confirmed itinerary at least 24 hours before the flight.
You should print and send your confirmed itinerary from CTM with you to the airport. A copy on a smart phone or similar is also sufficient.
You will be notified if your booking has not been successful and you will be issued with a full refund within 14 days.
You are responsible for your travel to the airport.
Travel to JNIA airport
There are no current restriction on travel to JNIA
Please ensure you wear a face mask
If you’re currently outside Dar Es Salaam and seeking to return to the UK, you should travel to Dar Es Salaam as soon as possible
Financial support for a flight
If you have exhausted all other options available to you for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government to cover the cost of the ticket.
This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK.
Our partner CTM is also authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO and details will be available when you are asked to pay.
Your journey home
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Future options
The UK government is working closely with airlines, the Tanzanian authorities and other governments to make sure options are available for you to return to the UK as soon as possible.
This travel advice will be updated when further departure options become available. Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British High Commission on Twitter and Facebook.
If you cannot leave Tanzania
If you cannot leave Tanzania at this time, see advice on staying in Tanzania during coronavirus.
Help and support
If you’re in Tanzania and in need of urgent help, contact the British High Commission. If you are vulnerable with health issues, an older person, or will be travelling with young children, you can call: +255 22 229 0000 or UK +44 207 008 1500 and follow the options for consular assistance. The numbers are available 24/7.
