!
Warning
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to parts of Tanzania.

This guide also has safety advice for regions of Tanzania.
Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Tanzania
Terrorists are very likely to try and carry out attacks in Tanzania.
Terrorist attacks could be indiscriminate, including in places frequented by foreign nationals, such as:
places of worship
transport hubs
embassies
hotels
restaurants
bars
major gatherings like sporting or religious events
crowded places
Stay aware of your surroundings, keep up to date with local media reports and follow the advice of local authorities. 
Extremists linked to the Islamic terrorist group Al-Shabaab based in Somalia pose a threat across the East Africa region, and are thought to be active in Tanzania. Attacks by IS-Mozambique, who are based in the Cabo Delgado province of Mozambique, are possible near Tanzania’s border with this area of Mozambique. There is also thought to be some support for Daesh (formerly referred to as ISIL). The Tanzanian authorities have successfully made a number of arrests in connection to terrorism. However, many incidents in Tanzania are of unclear origin and may be conducted by criminal gangs.  
In 2020, the village of Kitaya in the Mtwara region was attacked, close to the border with Mozambique, the attack was claimed by Islamic extremists operating from northern Mozambique. Most attacks target the local security forces, although attacks against western interests are also possible.
Political situation
On occasion demonstrations and political rallies across Tanzania have turned violent, resulting in fatalities. Police may use tear gas or live ammunition for crowd control. If you’re in and around areas where demonstrations are taking place, be aware of what is happening around you and move away if there are signs of disorder.
Crime
Violent crime
There is a risk of armed crime, including armed robbery, throughout Tanzania. Take particular care in places frequented by tourists and foreign residents. In Dar es Salaam, tourists and residents have been targeted:
in the city centre
in the Masaki and Oysterbay peninsula area, particularly at Coco Beach
along Toure Drive
In Zanzibar incidents have taken place in Stone Town and at hotels and on popular tourist beaches throughout the island.
Bag snatching is a well-known tactic of criminals, who may operate from cars or motorbikes. If you are walking on the street:
walk towards the traffic so you can see vehicles approaching
walk as far away from the road as possible
carry bags loosely by the handle or hanging off your shoulder and do not secure the strap across your chest
avoid walking or cycling at night or alone
Do not carry large amounts of cash or display valuables such as expensive jewellery or watches. Leave your passport in a safe place and carry a copy for ID checks.
When in a vehicle, keep car doors locked, windows up and valuables out of sight. Be particularly careful at night when there is a higher incidence of crime. Do not stop if pedestrians or hitchhikers try to flag you down.
Express kidnap
In Dar es Salaam, tourists have been ‘express kidnapped’. This means they’ve been assaulted, robbed and forced with the threat of violence to withdraw cash from ATMs. Some have been forced to arrange cash transfers of up to £5,000 through Western Union after being befriended by strangers or getting into unlicensed taxis.
Protecting your property
Burglary is a risk. Make sure residential property is secure and lock all doors and windows, especially at night. If where you’re staying has a security guard, they should insist on official identification before allowing anyone to enter your property or compound. If in doubt, do not let strangers in and raise the alarm.
Harassment
There have been cases where women travelling alone and in small groups have been verbally harassed.
Laws and cultural differences
Religion
There is a high proportion of Muslims in Tanzania, particularly in Zanzibar and Pemba. Respect local traditions, customs, laws and religions. Make sure your actions do not cause offence, especially during the holy month of Ramadan or if you intend to visit religious areas.
Personal ID
Always carry copies of your passport photo page and visa. Carry your work permit, if you have one. Immigration officials or police can request these documents at any time, so make sure you can get the originals quickly if you need them. If you’re a resident or longer term visitor, consider getting certified copies.
Ramadan
Ramadan is a holy month for Muslims. The dates vary by year and country. In 2024 Ramadan in Tanzania will take place from 11 March to 9 April. During this time, avoid eating or drinking in public, outside of hotels or restaurants. Get more advice when you arrive from your tour guide, hotel or business contacts.
Dress code
Dress modestly throughout Tanzania. Women wearing shorts or sleeveless tops away from tourist resorts in Zanzibar and Pemba, particularly in Stone Town, may cause offence to the local population.
Zanzibari authorities can fine you 700 US dollars or more if you’re wearing what they consider inappropriate clothing in public. For guides or tour operators, the fine can be at least 1,000 US dollars.
Environmental laws
Plastic bags are banned for environmental reasons. If you arrive by air you’ll be asked to hand over all plastic bags on arrival. The ban does not include ‘ziplock’ bags for airline security procedures.
Illegal drugs and prison sentences
Tanzania has strict laws on drug use and if you are found in possession of even a small amount you will be fined. There are severe penalties, including prison sentences, for possessing an amount that indicates possible intent to supply (drug trafficking). Tanzanian prisons tend to be dirty and overcrowded. 
Discrimination and harassment
Reports made to the British High Commission by Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic (BAME) British passport holders suggest that they are experiencing additional levels of harassment from immigration officials. If this happens, stay calm and ask that the British High Commission is immediately informed.
LGBT+ travellers
Same-sex sexual activity is illegal in Tanzania, including Zanzibar. Same-sex relationships are not tolerated in Tanzania’s conservative society. If you show affection in public, like holding hands or kissing in public places, you could be arrested or put in prison.
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Money
US dollars are widely accepted in tourist areas. Travellers cheques are not widely accepted.
Most banks in major cities have ATMs that accept foreign debit cards and issue Tanzanian shillings. They sometimes break down or run out of money.
To minimise the risk of card cloning, use ATMs located within the bank. If you try to exchange non-Bank of England pound notes, you may get a reduced exchange rate.
Outdoor activities and adventure tourism  
Trekking and climbing 
If you are trekking or climbing, only use a reputable travel company, stick to established routes and always walk in groups. Make sure you are well prepared and equipped to cope with the terrain and low temperatures.
Transport risks
Road travel
If you’re planning to drive in Tanzania, see information on driving abroad.
The condition of cars rented out by some car hire companies is variable, so use a reputable firm. There are no roadside rescue or breakdown services. Road maps are hard to come by and not always up to date. Service stations are infrequent and may not have supplies of fuel. Consider using reputable taxis as an alternative.
You can drive in Tanzania with the correct version of the international driving permit (IDP) and your UK driving licence for up to 6 months. Keep this with you in the car. To confirm the correct IDP to use, contact the Tanzanian High Commission in the UK.
To drive in Zanzibar, you’ll also need a local Zanzibar driving permit (which you can get through your hire car company). Carry several copies of your driving licence, permits and insurance documents.
Driving standards and road conditions
Road users often drive dangerously, ignoring the rules of the road. Accidents resulting in death and serious injury are common.
Watch out for:
vehicles and motorbikes trying to undertake or overtake using any lane, including on the hard shoulder
drivers making manoeuvres without signalling
poor attention to rules at roundabouts
Many roads need repair, including in major towns and cities. During the rainy season, flooding can cause landslides and road surfaces can deteriorate.
Roads in Tanzania’s national parks, mainly dirt tracks, can become hazardous or impassable after heavy rain. It may be essential to have a 4-wheel drive vehicle.
Avoid driving outside major towns and cities at night.
Police checkpoints
There are frequent police checkpoints. If you’re stopped by the police, ask to see identification. If you are issued with a fine, the police should give you a government control number for payment. The police should not ask you to make any on the spot payments for traffic violations. If you’re involved in a road accident, co-operate with the local police.
If you see an unusual incident, or if somebody in plain clothes tries to flag you down, it is often safer not to stop.
Buses and taxis
Local buses (‘dala dalas’), motorbike taxis (‘boda bodas’), and tuk-tuks (known locally as ‘bijajis’) do not meet western safety standards. They are often poorly maintained and badly driven. They rarely have proper insurance cover. There are frequent accidents, some of which result in fatalities.
Do not accept lifts from strangers or anyone offering to find a taxi for you. It is safest to arrange a taxi through a hotel or travel operator. Always ask to see the driver’s ID and use reputable taxi services. 
Pickpockets and bag-snatchers operate on overcrowded buses and at bus stations.
Rail travel
There have been several accidents on Tanzanian railways. Seek local advice for any long-distance train travel.
Lake and sea travel
In the last few years there have been several ferry disasters. Hundreds of people have died when travelling:
between Dar es Salaam and Zanzibar
between the islands of Zanzibar
in the Lake Zone area
If you think a ferry is overloaded or not seaworthy, do not get on. If you do board, familiarise yourself with emergency procedures on board and make a note of where the life jackets and emergency exits are located.
You should also beware of aggressive ticket touts at Tanzanian ports.
Continual pirate attacks on vessels sailing off the coast of Somalia and in the Gulf of Aden show that the threat of piracy remains significant. The threat assessment of the combined international naval counter-piracy forces is that all sailing yachts under their own passage should avoid the designated high-risk area or accept the risk of being hijacked and held hostage for ransom. For more information and advice, see Piracy and armed robbery at sea.
Extreme weather and natural disasters
Rainy seasons
The length of rainy seasons can vary, but they generally run from:
the end of March to May
October to mid-December
Heavy rainfall and strong winds can affect travel. Flooding and landslides can occur during heavy rain. If travelling to affected regions, you should take extra care and follow any advice given by the local authorities.
Monitor local and international weather reports and the TMA website for the latest updates. If travelling, plan your journeys carefully and make sure to follow local guidance.
Avoid walking, swimming, or driving through floodwater.
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards.
Earthquakes
Earthquakes and tremors are a risk in Tanzania. The US Federal Emergency Management Agency website has advice about what to do before, during and after an earthquake.
The last significant earthquake (magnitude 6.0) happened on 12 August 2020, 66km north-east of Mafia Island.
