This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Tanzania as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
The Tanzanian government last released numbers on COVID-19 cases or deaths on 29 April.
If you’re in Tanzania, you should continue to take sensible precautions and preventive steps to reduce the risk of infection. Limit your movements and the number of visitors entering your accommodation. You should visit the NaTHNaC and WHO websites for further advice.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Tanzania to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Tanzania
The Government of Tanzania has announced that it is relaxing the ban on public gatherings, university and school openings, and sporting competitions. The majority of hotels, bars and restaurants remain closed for the time being, though many restaurants still offer take away service. You should continue to practice measures recommended by PHE such as hand washing and social distancing.
Visas
The Tanzanian Authorities have announced that they will extend the length of visa validity by 1 month free of charge for people who are unable to leave Tanzania due to coronavirus.
Health
Due to a rise in the number of coronavirus cases in Tanzania, medical facilities and personnel are under strain throughout the country. The availability of treatment for non-coronavirus-related illnesses, particularly for non-urgent care, has been adversely impacted. There have been instances during the COVID-19 outbreak when hospitals in Dar es Salaam reached full capacity due to the high volume of COVID-19 cases. Limited hospital capacity throughout Tanzania could result in life-threatening delays for emergency medical care.
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Tanzania.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Tanzania, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
