Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Venezuela on the TravelHealthPro website.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
Commercial flights to and from Venezuela remain very limited.
On 11 November 2020, local authorities announced that all international regular commercial flight operations are prohibited, with the exception of operations to/from: Bolivia, the Dominican Republic, Mexico, Panama and Turkey. Frequencies to these destinations are limited and under constant review due to COVID-19. Websites contain very limited information. You should contact and remain in touch with your tour operator or preferred local travel agent for further details on upcoming schedules, availability of seats (including onward connecting flights to the UK), and associated costs.
Limited regular domestic commercial flight operations resumed on 30 November 2020. Please contact your local travel agent or tour operator for further information on schedules, destinations and availability of seats.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Venezuela.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, quarantine is mandatory. You must follow the instructions of the local health authorities. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Venezuela
Authorities have announced social/community-wide quarantine and bans on inter-state travel with roadblocks in place. Inter-state travel requires a special permit or “salvoconducto” to be issued by the respective regional REDI or ZODI authorities.
Passengers located in the Caracas (Distrito Capital) area with confirmed travel itineraries are allowed to reach the airport in Maiquetia (La Guaira) without any special permit. Movement to the airport via land from other states require a “salvoconducto” in advance of travel. There are no domestic flights to Maiquetia operating until further notice.
The use of face covering is mandatory at all times, including when travelling via land in private vehicles.
Certain municipalities might be under stricter lockdown than others depending on the number of COVID-19 infections reported. Stay informed through local media reports and follow the advice of local authorities.
Accommodation
Most hotels are open and able to receive guests. Private accommodation rental remains possible, although with reduced availability.
Some hotels may require guests to be COVID-19 tested before allowing them to check-in into their premises, please confirm any specific requirements in advance.
Public places and services
Social/community-wide quarantine and bans on inter-state travel with roadblocks are in place since 16 March.
Local authorities have recently moved on to an alternating lockdown/flexible scheme where during a “flexible week” certain specific economic sectors are allowed to operate limited hours; on a “lockdown week” only essential businesses and medical services remain operational. Schools and universities remain closed until further notice.
Public gatherings are prohibited and people have been instructed to wear face covering at all times when outside.
The supply of fuel is severely limited.
Health
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
If you think you have COVID-19 symptoms, you should call either of the designated local numbers 0800VIGILAN (0800844526) or 0800COVID19 (08002684319) for a medical assessment and advice on what steps you must take (Spanish only).
COVID-19 testing is handled by the public health system through CDIs (centros de diagnóstico integral) and a designated network of public hospitals or “hospitales centinela” throughout the country. Testing usually takes from 24 to 48 hours, and during this time the patient with symptoms must remain in isolation in a designated health facility. If you test positive, quarantine is mandatory. You must follow the instructions of the local health authorities.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Venezuela.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Venezuela
We will update this page when the Government of Venezuela announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Venezuela national vaccine programme started in May 2021 and is using the Sputnik V and Sinopharm vaccines. The Abdala vaccine is undergoing clinical trials in Venezuela (currently considered a candidate vaccine) and may also be in use in the national programme. The Government of Venezuela has stated that British nationals resident in Venezuela are eligible for vaccination if they choose to join the programme. Further information on the vaccination programme is available on the Government of Venezuela Ministry of Health website.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in Venezuela, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
