This page has information on travelling to Venezuela. Check what you must do to return to the UK
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport from the UK, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Venezuela set and enforce entry rules.
All travellers
All individuals travelling to Venezuela must present at port of origin either:
proof of COVID-19 vaccination: a digital (containing a QR code) or physical proof of a complete vaccination scheme. At least 14 calendar days must have passed since your last vaccine dose of a complete vaccination scheme (for both 2-dose or 1-dose vaccines). If more than 270 days have passed since your last dose of a complete vaccination scheme, proof of a vaccine booster is required. Or,
a (hardcopy) negative COVID-19 PCR-RT test performed within 72 hours of their incoming flight arrival for not fully vaccinated individuals. Other COVID-19 diagnostic viral tests (e.g. TMA, LAMP, NEAR or antigen) are not accepted
All individuals 5 years old or older must take a further COVID-19 PCR-RT test at port of entry at Maiquetia International Airport, to be administered by a service provider designated by local health authorities - CasaLab.
Travellers must sign-up in advance through the provider’s website (CasaLab), and register their incoming flight details in order to obtain a QR code. This QR code (hardcopy or digital) will be requested by both the airline/carrier upon check-in and by local sanitary authorities on arrival for the test to be administered.
Most airlines have already included the fee for this arrival PCR-RT test within the cost of the travellers’ ticket. Where the carrier has not included this fee in your ticket, each passenger will have to cover its cost at their own expense: USD $60 (United States dollars) payable on arrival in cash only. The airline/carrier might request for the traveller to prove (show) having this amount of currency in cash during check-in.
The service provider (CasaLab) will share your test results and personal details with the authorities in Venezuela. If you test positive for COVID-19, you must follow instructions from the local health authorities. There are no mandatory rules in respect to quarantine.
You should not use the NHS testing service to get a test in order to facilitate your travel to another country. You should arrange to take a private test.
If you’re fully vaccinated
If you’re fully vaccinated you must comply with the rules set out above – see All travellers.
Proof of vaccination status
Proof of COVID-19 vaccination is required at port of origin in order to board a flight to Venezuela. Individuals who are not fully vaccinated may present, alternatively, a (hardcopy) negative COVID-19 PCR-RT test performed within 72 hours of their incoming flight arrival in substitution of proof of vaccination. Please note that proof of vaccination might be required to allow entry to some indoor venues such as restaurants and cafes. You may use your UK COVID Pass in electronic or PDF form, or provide your vaccination card for this purpose.
If you’re not fully vaccinated
If you’re not fully vaccinated you must comply with the rules set out above – see All travellers.
If you’ve had COVID-19 in the past year
Having recovered from COVID-19 does not exempt travellers from the standard entry rules set out by local authorities. Please make sure to comply with the entry rules set out above – see All travellers.
Children and young people
Children 5 years old and older must comply with local COVID-19 standard entry requirements as set out above - please see entry requirement rules for All travellers above.
If you’re transiting through Venezuela
Transiting through Venezuela on your way to other country is permitted for travellers as long as they comply with all of the mandatory standard COVID-19 entry requirements set out above – please see entry requirements rules for All travellers. Travellers should also make sure their passport is valid for entry and transit in Venezuela.
See Check your passport and travel documents before you travel below.
For further information about transiting through Venezuela please contact your airline or tour operator.
Exemptions
Local authorities have not set out any exemptions to the above stated standard COVID-19 entry requirements for Venezuela. See All travellers.
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
If you’re visiting Venezuela, your passport should be valid for at least 6 months beyond the day you plan to leave Venezuela.
If you’re a resident in Venezuela, your passport must be valid at the time of your arrival. Your residence visa/permit must also be valid.
Check with your travel provider to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Visas
If you’re arriving by air, you can enter for up to 90 days on a tourist card issued on arrival. You must have a valid return ticket. If you’re arriving overland or by sea, you must get a visa in advance from your nearest Venezuelan Embassy or Consulate.
If you are overstay the 90 days you may be arrested and fined when departing. Extensions of up to 90 days can be arranged at any SAIME (immigration service) for a fee but you must apply before your tourist card and stamp expire. If you are living in Venezuela, the only place where you can apply for or extend your residency permit is the main SAIME office in Caracas. Avoid companies offering residency permits as they may not be genuine.
Dual nationality
Any dual national Venezuelan citizens must use their Venezuelan identity documents to enter and leave the country. The authorities may not allow you to depart Venezuela otherwise.
Travelling with children
Children travelling unaccompanied, with a guardian, or with one parent must provide a travel permit from the non-travelling parent(s) confirming that they consent for the child to travel without them. This permit must include all the relevant travel details and must be obtained through the nearest local SAREN office, or the respective Court for Children and Adolescents.
If the child is resident overseas, the travel permit must be obtained through the nearest Venezuelan Embassy or Consulate.
The child should carry this travel permit while travelling within the country and also at time of departure from Venezuela. Children may be denied exit from the country otherwise.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are accepted for entry, airside transit and exit from Venezuela. The ETD must be valid for at least 6 months beyond your period of intended stay in Venezuela. The usual visa requirements for land and sea arrivals apply. If you are a dual British/Venezuelan national you must have a valid Venezuelan travel document (passport) in order to be allowed to depart – a UK Emergency Travel Document cannot substitute this requirement. If you are a resident in Venezuela with an irregular immigration status (you don’t have a valid residence visa/permit) you need to submit a “retorno voluntario” request to SAIME 48 hours before your departure – you must visit your nearest SAIME office and present a valid travel document, your departure ticket and pay an applicable fine; you may be arrested at the airport otherwise.
Returning to the UK
Check what you must do to return to the UK.
