If you have a health condition, or you are pregnant, you may need specialist healthcare abroad. Check whether your destination country can provide the healthcare you may need and ensure you have appropriate travel insurance for unexpected medical evacuation or local treatment.
See the Coronavirus travel health and Healthcare sections in the Coronavirus page for COVID-19 health information.
At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist are available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Local medical care
The Venezuelan Pharmaceutical Federation has reported that there is a shortage of 80% of medical supplies due to the economic crisis. Make sure you bring enough medication for your stay including extra medication in case your return is unexpectedly delayed.
Medical facilities in Venezuela vary widely in quality. In large cities, private clinics provide acceptable quality care for routine treatments but are vulnerable to acute shortages of medical supplies and medicines. More complex treatments may require evacuation. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation. Public health facilities are poor, with frequent shortages of medicines and funding. Ambulance services in remote areas are unreliable and hospitals often lack adequate medical supplies and equipment.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 911 from a landline or a mobile phone. Calls to this number are free of charge.
Nationwide ambulance services like Primera Respuesta and AeroAm can help you get back to Caracas or other major cities in the event of an accident.
Contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
Other risks
UK health authorities have classified Venezuela as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For information and advice about the risks associated with Zika virus, visit the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
Dengue fever and malaria are present throughout the country, although the central and southern states are the most affected, especially during or shortly after the rainy season between September and March.
Since 2017 there have been reports of an increase in cases of malaria and diphtheria across Venezuela. See the TravelHealthPro website for more information, including this factsheet on how to prevent diphtheria.
Cases of Chikungunya virus have been confirmed in Venezuela. You should take steps to avoid being bitten by mosquitoes. Insect repellent can be difficult to purchase locally so you should bring enough for your stay.
Altitude sickness is a risk in parts of Venezuela, mainly in the Andean region of the country: Merida, Tachira and Trujillo states. More information about altitude sickness is available from TravelHealthPro.
Tap water is unsafe to drink. You should drink or use only boiled or bottled water and avoid ice in drinks.
