Currency exchange controls are in place in Venezuela. There is a government-set exchange rate (as well as a black-market rate). Bureaux de change will exchange US dollars and US dollar travellers’ cheques for Bolivars.
Use official currency exchange booths only, which should change money at the official exchange rate (DICOM). There are no facilities for visitors to change bolivares to US dollars, or any other currency, when leaving Venezuela.
Debit and credit cards are widely used in Venezuela and have the advantage of removing the need to carry large amounts of cash. However, international credit cards aren’t always accepted by point of sale machines and you’ll have to enter your passport number. ATMs have extremely low limits for cash withdrawals on international cards and queues at ATMs are frequently targeted by criminals. You shouldn’t rely on ATMs as your main way to access money in Venezuela.
There’s a serious problem with credit card fraud and cards being cloned. Take care whenever you’re using your credit or debit cards.
Old bank notes are due to be phased out progressively; higher-value banknotes were introduced in August 2018 as a new currency - the “sovereign bolivar” - was adopted (one sovereign bolivar is equal to 100,000 “old” bolivars). Supplies of banknotes will continue to be limited and it is likely to continue to be difficult to get cash.
Banknote shortages and hyperinflation mean that people are paying by card where this is available. This has put pressure on Venezuela’s card payment processing infrastructure. Debit or credit card transactions may take longer than expected, or several attempts, to clear through points of sale nationwide. In addition, in smaller cities and towns cash may be the only accepted method of payment, despite the cash shortages.
If you run out of money and discover that your bank cards do not work, you can arrange with friends and family overseas to deposit funds into any Western Union branch, and pick up the deposited funds at any Grupo Zoom branch nationwide.
