There remain commercial options to return to the UK from Venezuela.
If you live in the UK and are currently visiting Venezuela, you’re strongly advised to return now by commercial means. Don’t run the risk of getting stranded.
UK special charter flights will only operate for priority countries where commercial flights are not possible. You should not assume that these flights will become available in countries where commercial routes are operating. Please do not contact the contracted travel management company if no flight is advertised here.
Flights
Limited unscheduled (charter) flights with Conviasa airlines (through Mexico) remain, but their operations are limited and under constant review due to COVID-19. Websites contain limited information – please remain in contact with your tour operator or travel agent for further details.
Domestic and international regular commercial flights are, in principle and subjected to further local authorities’ announcements, meant to progressively re-start from 13 June 2020 onwards. Remain in touch with your airline or travel agent to stay informed on their future scheduled operations.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK.
For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Travel via Mexico
Travelling via Mexico using the above-mentioned Conviasa airlines unscheduled (charter) flights have proven to be an effective route to return to the UK. Travellers must ensure they have onward tickets to the UK or their place of permanent residence in order to be boarded in Caracas/allowed to transit in Mexico.
Travelling to the airport
Authorities have announced social/community-wide quarantine and bans on inter-state travel with roadblocks in place. Passengers located in the Caracas (Distrito Capital) area with confirmed travel itineraries are allowed to reach the airport in Maiquetia (La Guaira) without any special permit. Movement to the airport via land from other states require a special permit, or “salvoconducto”, to be issued by local authorities’ in advance of travel. There are no domestic flights to Maiquetia operating until further notice.
Your journey home: re-entering the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK. You:
need to provide your journey and contact details up to 48 hours before you’re due to arrive in the UK
are not allowed to leave the place you’re staying for the first 14 days you’re in the UK except in very limited situations (known as ‘self-isolating’)
See also the list of people who are exempt from the border rules.
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) also provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
Help and support
Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British Embassy in Venezuela on Twitter and Facebook
If you cannot leave Venezuela
If you cannot leave Venezuela at this time, see advice on staying in Venezuela during coronavirus.
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
