Coronavirus guidance is being updated.
Read the Prime Minister’s statement for the latest information.

This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Venezuela as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Venezuela to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Venezuela
For information on entering Venezuela, see Entry Requirements
Authorities have announced social/community-wide quarantine and bans on inter-state travel with roadblocks in place.
Schools, universities and all non-essential shops will remain closed from 16 March until further notice.
Public gatherings are prohibited and people have been instructed to wear face masks when outside.
Only one member per family is allowed to go outside of their home to access supermarkets/pharmacies.
The supply of fuel is severely limited.
Visas
All visas and accreditations issued on or before 13 March 2020, including entry stamps for tourists/visitors, will be automatically extended until the national emergency decree in place related to the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic is officially lifted.
British nationals in country with an expired visa, or that have gone over the maximum 90 days allowed for tourists/visitors, will be allowed to depart via commercial means without any inconvenience.
Health
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Venezuela.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
