The Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advise against all travel to within 80 km (50 miles) of the Colombian border and 40 km (25 miles) of the Brazilian border. Drug traffickers and illegal armed groups are active along the border area with Colombia and Brazil and there is a risk of kidnapping. See Crime
The FCO advise against all travel to Zulia State as a result of prolonged power cuts and an increase in civil disorder. See Crime
The FCO advise against all but essential travel to the remaining areas of Venezuela, due to ongoing crime and instability. If you’re in Venezuela, you should consider carefully whether you need to remain, and keep your departure options under close review. In the event of prolonged power cuts and/or a deterioriation in the political or security situation, the British embassy may be limited in the assistance that it can provide.
Following reports of civil unrest in Caracas, the British Embassy will be closed on 30 April 2019. If you’re in Caracas, you should continue to remain vigilant, avoid all demonstrations, monitor developments closely and keep up to date with this travel advice.
Power cuts are common in Caracas and throughout Venezuela. You may find yourself without electricity, or water, for a prolonged period of time. You should consider take precautions by storing several days’ worth of dried/tinned food and water provisions. See Electricity and Water
Power cuts also affect mobile signals and internet. Caracas International Airport is often affected during power failures, causing flights to be delayed or cancelled. This could affect your ability to depart Venezuela.
If you’re in Venezuela and need urgent help, call the British Embassy Caracas on +58 (212) 3195800. If you have data access only, you can contact us online via our webform or via our Facebook or Twitter accounts. If you’re in the UK and are concerned about a British national in Venezuela, call the FCO in London on 020 7008 1500.
You should remain vigilant and informed. Avoid protests and demonstrations, which can turn violent with little warning. During and ahead of demonstrations, there’s often travel disruption as a result of road closures. Some airlines may cancel flights or reduce flight frequencies as a precaution. You should remain in close contact with your airline or travel agent to see if your flight is affected. The authorities often use tear gas and buckshot/plastic pellets to disperse protests. In case of renewed prolonged protests, you should take precautions by securing several days’ worth of food and water provisions. See Political situation
A number of Venezuela’s land and sea borders are subject to closure. The borders with Brazil and Colombia have been temporarily closed by the Venezuelan de facto authorities. The sea borders with Aruba, Bonaire and Curaçao are also temporarily closed, with no air or sea traffic operating between Venezuela and these islands. If you’re planning travel in the region on any of these routes, contact your travel company for more information.
Consular support is not available in parts of Venezuela. We cannot provide any support in the areas where we advise against all travel and our support is limited in other parts of the country.
You should take particular care to check the local situation ahead of any travel to Canaima National Park and the Gran Sabana area of Bolívar State. Recent protests by locals have led to the closure (sometimes for days) of Canaima airport and main roads (eg parts of Road 10 between El Callao and the Brazilian border); and there are particular shortages of fuel and other essentials in the area.
There’s a high threat from violent crime and kidnapping throughout Venezuela. Take care at all times, including when arriving in the country. Violence around protests can occur with little or no warning. Law enforcement presence is reduced. Increase your vigilance and remain alert at all times See Crime
There are intermittent shortages of fuel for cars throughout Venezuela, including in Caracas. See Road travel
Banknote shortages have led to increased pressure on Venezuela’s card payment processing infrastructure. Debit or credit card transactions may take longer than expected, or require several attempts.
There have been recent reports of bribes being solicited by authorities at Maiquetia (Caracas) International Airport. See Air travel
UK health authorities have classified Venezuela as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For information and advice about the risks associated with Zika virus, visit the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
Terrorist attacks in Venezuela can’t be ruled out. See Terrorism
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.
The Overseas Business Risk service offers information and advice for British companies operating overseas on how to manage political, economic, and business security-related risks.
Take out comprehensive travel and medical insurance before you travel.
