!
Warning
FCDO advises against all travel to parts of Venezuela.

The Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) provides advice about risks of travel to help British nationals make informed decisions. Find out more about FCDO travel advice.
Areas where FCDO advises against travel
Your travel insurance could be invalidated if you travel against FCDO advice.
Within 80km of the Venezuela-Colombia border 
FCDO advises against all travel to within 80km (50 miles) of the border with Colombia. Drug traffickers and illegal armed groups are active along the border area with Colombia and there is a risk of criminal kidnapping.
Zulia State
FCDO advises against all travel to Zulia State, which has prolonged power cuts, water shortages, violence and local conflict.
Within 40km of the Venezuela-Brazil border
FCDO advises against all travel to within 40km (25 miles) of the border with Brazil. Drug traffickers and illegal armed groups are active along the border area with Brazil and there is a risk of criminal kidnapping.
All other areas of Venezuela
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to the remaining areas of Venezuela, due to ongoing crime and instability.
Presidential election period
National presidential elections were held on 28 July 2024.  The situation in Venezuela is currently tense.
There is currently an increased risk of electoral demonstrations and protests. You should avoid political rallies, demonstrations and crowds, which may become violent and could be dispersed by the use of force. You should not cross security-force lines or barricades. Monitor developments closely and keep up to date with this travel advice.
Before you travel
No travel can be guaranteed safe. Read all the advice in this guide and see support for British nationals abroad for information about specific travel topics.
Follow and contact FCDO travel on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram. You can also sign up to get email notifications when this advice is updated.
Travel insurance
If you choose to travel, research your destinations and get appropriate travel insurance. Insurance should cover your itinerary, planned activities and expenses in an emergency.
