Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for the on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
A total suspension of international travellers coming to the Marshall Islands continues and commercial flights to and from the islands remain very limited. There is a small number of repatriation flights. Check with your travel company for the latest information, including on quarantine requirements.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in the Marshall Islands.
Returning to the UK
Travelling from and returning to the UK
Check what you must do to travel abroad and return to England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
If you plan to pass through another country to return to the UK, check the travel advice for the country you’re transiting.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in the Marshall Islands
Domestic air travel (on international airlines) and sea travel between Majuro and Kwajalein is not permitted. Travel between islands may be further limited due to the current outbreak of COVID-19.
Public places and services
Following an increase in the number of COVID-19 cases, President Kabua declared a State of Health Disaster on 12 August 2022. No lockdown has been introduced but mask-wearing has now been mandated. Public services remain open but there may be some disruption due to staff absences caused by COVID-19. You should follow advice from the local authorities on avoiding the spread of COVID-19, isolation and testing.
Healthcare in the Marshall Islands
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in the Marshall Islands
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in the Marshall Islands
Wherever possible British nationals should aim to be vaccinated in the country where they live. We will update this page when the Government of Marshall Islands announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Marshall Islands national vaccination programme started in February 2021 and is using the Janssen (Johnson and Johnson), Moderna and Pfizer vaccines. British nationals resident in the Marshall Islands are eligible for vaccination. For more information on the national vaccination programme, visit the RMI Ministry of Health and Human Services Facebook page. COVID-19 vaccines are currently available from Majuro hospital.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in the Marshall Islands, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
