This page has information on travelling to Marshall Islands.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Marshall Islands set and enforce entry rules. If you’re unsure how Marshall Islands’ entry requirements apply to you, contact its UK embassy, high commission or consulate.
You should also consider checking with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Entry rules in response to coronavirus (COVID-19)
The international border reopened on 8 September 2022.To enter the Republic of Marshall Islands, you will need to be fully vaccinated and have received any boosters you are eligible for. You will need to submit your NHS COVID Pass to your airline prior to your flight. The requirement to be fully vaccinated applies to all travellers aged five and over. From 1 October 2022, all travellers over the age of six months will need to be vaccinated in order to enter. Travellers will need to submit their vaccinated card to the airline prior to flying.Travellers will be required to take a rapid antigen test on arrival and must self-isolate if the result is positive.
Regular entry requirements
Visas
British nationals need a visa to visit the Marshall Islands. A 30-day visit visa is available on arrival at the airport. Those arriving by boat must also obtain a visa. 30-day visit visas may be extended twice, for a maximum stay of 90 days and each extension costs approximately US$10. You should consult the Marshall Islands Visitors Authority (MIVA) in advance of travel if you are likely to seek an extension of stay: MIVA, PO Box 5, MH96960; telephone number: +692 625 6482; fax number: +692 625 6771; e-mail address: tourism@ntamar.com
If you’re transiting a US territory to reach the Marshall Islands you’ll need to apply for an Electronic System for Travel Authorisation (ESTA) from the US government.
Passport validity
Your passport should be valid for a minimum period of six months from the date of entry into Marshall Islands.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents are not valid for entry into, or transit through, Marshall Islands.
Departure tax
A departure tax amounting to $20 is payable at the airport.
Travelling with children
Some countries need documentary evidence of parental responsibility before allowing lone parents to enter the country or, in some cases, before permitting the children to leave the country. For more information contact the Marshall Islands Visitors Authority (MIVA), PO Box 5, MH96960; telephone number: +692 625 6482; fax number: +692 625 6771; E-mail address: tourism@ntamar.com.
