At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Coronavirus
There is an ongoing outbreak of coronavirus (COVID-19) in China. The Republic of the Marshall Islands have announced, as of 28 February 2020, the following interim inbound and outbound travel restrictions apply for all visitors to the Republic of the Marshall Islands:
Suspension of all air and sea travel from People’s Republic of China, Hong Kong, Macau, South Korea, Italy, Japan and Iran
All Container vessels coming from restricted countries on their routine path or port of departure, are exempt from the suspension of sea travel through stations. All container vessels must adhere to the Republic of the Marshall Islands Ports Authority Standard Operating Procedures (SOP)
Citizens and residents of the Marshall Islands with plans to travel abroad are strongly encouraged to consider postponing their travel arrangements. If travel arrangements cannot be postponed, individuals should be aware they may be subject to restrictions on re-entering the Marshall Islands if they have travelled or transited via a country listed in the COVID-19 travel restriction
All conferences, meetings or trainings to be held in the Marshall Islands in the upcoming months to be postponed unless deemed absolutely necessary by the Marshall Islands hosting agency
The Secretary of Health and Human Services based on recommendations from the Republic of the Marshall Islands Public Health Division, reserves the right to make exceptions to any of the above restrictions to allow for essential services.
Further advice is available from Public Health England and the TravelHealthPro website
Health risks
The Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands has declared a state of health emergency due to an outbreak of Dengue fever. Further information on Dengue, including symptoms, is available on the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC)
There have been recorded cases of dengue fever in the Marshall Islands.
Medical treatment
Medical facilities are generally adequate for routine medical procedures in the Marshall Islands. For more serious or complicated problems, medical evacuation to Honolulu may be required. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 625 4142 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
