

Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.    
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in the Marshall Islands
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in the Marshall Islands, attacks cannot be ruled out.   
Crime
Crime rates are low in the Marshall Islands, but there is a risk of petty crime, including break-ins and non-violent theft. Take the same precautions you would in the UK to protect your belongings.
Laws and cultural differences
Illegal drugs penalties
There are severe penalties for all drug offences, including long prison sentences and heavy fines. 
LGBT+ travellers
Same-sex relationships are legal in the Marshall Islands.
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Using a mobile phone
Your UK mobile phone will not work in the Marshall Islands. International roaming is not available. You can buy a Marshall Islands SIM card when you arrive.
Outdoor activities and adventure tourism
Water safety
Wear a life jacket for canoeing, kayaking or fishing. Follow your dive centre’s safety advice when scuba diving and take local advice before swimming or snorkelling.
See water safety on holiday from the Royal Life Saving Society.
Extreme weather and natural disasters
There is a risk of cyclones, floods and severe drought in the Marshall Islands, although they are rare.
Cyclone season is normally from November to April, but cyclones can happen throughout the year. Severe weather may cause flooding, landslides and disruption to essential services and infrastructure.
Monitor local and international weather updates from the World Meteorological Organization and follow instructions issued by the local authorities.
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards.
