COVID-19 entry restrictions for the Marshall Islands
The government of the Republic of Marshall Islands has declared a State of Health Disaster following the increasing number of COVID-19 cases in the country. There is no lockdown but schools remain closed.
Before you travel, check the ‘Entry requirements’ section for the Marshall Islands’ current entry restrictions and requirements. These may change with little warning. Monitor this advice for the latest updates and stay in contact with your travel provider.
Travelling from and returning to the UK
Check what you must do to travel abroad and return to England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
If you plan to pass through another country to return to the UK, check the travel advice for the country you’re transiting.
If you’re planning travel to the Marshall Islands , find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCDO guidance on foreign travel insurance.
For information about COVID-19 vaccines, see the Coronavirus page.
Cyclone season is normally between November and April but cyclones can occur throughout the year. Severe weather may result in flooding, landslides, and disruption to essential services and infrastructure. See Natural disasters
The government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands has declared a state of health emergency due to an outbreak of dengue fever. A number of travel restrictions are in place and you should follow advice from the Ministry of Health and Human Services. Further information on Dengue, including symptoms, is available on the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC)
British nationals now need a visa to visit the Marshall Islands. A 30-day visit visa is available on arrival at the airport. See Visas
There’s no British Embassy in the Marshall Islands. Consular support is limited, however the British High Commission Suva in Fiji can provide some consular support to British nationals. If you intend to stay in the Marshall Islands for an extended period, you should register with the British High Commission.
Most visits to the Marshall Islands are trouble-free.
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in the Marshall Islands, attacks cannot be ruled out. See Terrorism
The Marshall Islands are vulnerable to natural disasters, such as hurricanes, cyclones, floods and severe droughts. See Natural disasters..
