Coronavirus Travel Health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Iraq on the TravelHealthPro website.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International Travel
Commercial flights are operating to and from Iraq. All Iraqi airports are open. Check with your airline before travelling.
All inbound/outbound international passengers will need to have a certificate showing they have tested negative for COVID-19. The Iraqi Civil Aviation Authority and Ministry of Health have introduced an online portal for inbound/outbound passengers to register flight details and PCR test results. This does not apply to KRI.
All inbound/outbound international passengers will need to have a certificate showing they have tested negative for COVID-19.
Entry and Borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Iraq.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Iraq
The Kurdistan Region of Iraq is subject to strict travel restrictions between provinces which are often introduced at short notice. These are published through local media and on www.moi.gov.krd.
You should keep up to date with information from your sponsor or employer in Iraq and/or with your airline on the impact of any existing travel plans. If you need further information about entry requirements, contact the local immigration authorities or the nearest Iraqi Embassy.
Healthcare in Iraq
If you are in Iraq and displaying symptoms of coronavirus you should seek medical advice while self-isolating. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company.
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Iraq
We will update this page when the Government of Iraq announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Iraq national vaccination programme started in March 2021 and is using the AstraZeneca, Pfizer-BioNTech and Sinopharm vaccines. The Government of Iraq has stated that foreign nationals resident in Iraq are eligible for vaccination, if they choose to join the programme. You should consult your health care provider for more information.
You can register for the vaccination programme on the Ministry of Health registration system for COVID-19 vaccines (this website is in Arabic and you will need assistance completing the form if you are a non-Arabic speaker).
In the Kurdistan Region of Iraq the registration link is available in English at the Kurdistan Regional Government Ministry of Health registration system for COVID-19 vaccines.
For more general information from the Government of Iraq regarding vaccines and Coronavirus measures see the Government of Iraq website, the Ministry of Health Facebook page
MOH.GOV.IQ, and the Kurdistan Regional Government website.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in Iraq, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
If you are in Iraq and need advice which is not covered by reading our travel advice then you can contact us online.
If you need urgent consular assistance, call the FCDO on +44 207 008 5000. To get the latest information, sign up for travel advice email alerts.
