This page has information on travelling to Iraq.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Iraq set and enforce entry rules. If you’re unsure how Iraq’s entry requirements apply to you, contact its UK embassy, high commission or consulate.
You should also consider checking with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Entry rules in response to coronavirus
From 1 April 2022all inbound/outbound international passengers above the age of 12 who have received one dose of the Johnson & Johnson vaccine, or two doses of any other vaccine, will no longer require evidence of a recent negative PCR test when travelling into or out of Federal Iraq or the KRI. Passengers need to present international vaccination cards containing QR codes proving their vaccination status. If you can’t be vaccinated for medical reasons, you must evidence this with a medical report, as well as proof of a PCR test conducted in the previous 72 hours.
Check with your airline for further information.
Demonstrating your COVID-19 status
Iraq, including KRI, will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 vaccination record and proof of COVID-19 vaccination issued in the Crown Dependencies that contains a QR code and shows at least two vaccinations. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
Screening
The Iraqi CAA have medical teams deployed to all civil airports to screen travellers coming from affected countries when flights are in operation. You should comply with any additional screening measures put in place by the Iraqi authorities.
Testing on departure
From 1 April 2022, if you can’t be vaccinated for medical reasons, you must evidence this with a medical report, as well as with proof of a PCR test conducted in the previous 72 hours. You should note that a PCR test certificate issued in KRI would not be accepted at Baghdad, Basra and Najaf airports.
Regular entry requirements
Visas
You may be eligible to obtain a visit visa on arrival in Iraq. Check visa requirements with the Iraqi Embassy in London or the Iraqi Consulate in Manchester before you travel.
In the Kurdistan Region of Iraq you can obtain a 30 day visa on arrival at Erbil and Sulaimaniah International Airports. This is valid for travel in the KRI only.
Documentation
Make sure you have the right documents when you arrive in Iraq, including Weapon Authority Cards (WAC) if you are carrying weapons.
Foreign nationals have been arrested for failing to provide the correct documentation when requested. For more information contact the Iraqi Embassy in London.
Passport validity
Your passport should be valid for a minimum period of 6 months from the date of entry into Iraq.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are not valid for entry into Iraq. However, ETDs are accepted for airside transit and exit from Iraq. If you’re using an ETD to leave the country, you’ll need to get an exit stamp from the Baghdad or Erbil Residency Office.
Exit visas
If you remain in the country for more than 10 days without extending your visa, you’ll need to get an exit stamp to leave the country.
Your sponsor (for example the company you work for) must apply for the exit visa to the Residency and Immigration Office, which is part of the Ministry of Interior. Your sponsor will need to submit letters to the Immigration Office stating the start and end date of employment.
Blood test
All visitors to Iraq, with the exception of those travelling on a tourist visa, must have a blood test for HIV and hepatitis within 10 days of arrival. The test must then be repeated every 90 days while you’re in Iraq. Guidance on where to go for the blood test is available at the airport when you arrive.
