At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Coronavirus
There is an ongoing outbreak of coronavirus (COVID-19) in China, but cases have been confirmed in other countries, including Iraq. A government curfew is in place in Baghdad from 17 March (23:00) to 23 March (23:00) to slow the spread of coronavirus.
The Iraqi Civil Aviation Authority have suspended all flights in the country including the Kurdistan Region of Iraq from 17 March (18:00) to 24 March with the exception of aircraft crossing Iraqi airspace. The CAA have medical teams deployed to all civil airports to screen travellers coming from affected countries when flights are in operation. You should comply with any additional screening measures put in place by the authorities.A temporary ban is in effect for inward travel from several countries affected by the coronavirus. Further information can be found on the IATA travel news website
Kurdistan Region of Iraq’s regional government have also declared a lockdown across all governorates (Erbil, Sulaymaniyah and Dohuk). When flights resume, British nationals arriving at airports in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq will be subject to a period of quarantine. British nationals who have arrived from Lebanon in the past 30 days should immediately present themselves to the Ministry of Health in Kurdistan Region of Iraq.
Since 17 March non-core British Embassy staff in Baghdad and British Consulate Erbil have been withdrawn from Post. Core staff remain to continue operational work including consular assistance. UK Visa Application Centres in Baghdad, Erbil and Basra will be closed until further notice as a result of the impact of coronavirus measures.
You should keep up to date with information from your sponsor or employer in Iraq and/or with your airline on the impact of any existing travel plans. If you need further information about entry requirements, contact the local immigration authorities or the nearest Iraqi Embassy.
If you are in Iraq and displaying symptoms of coronavirus you should seek medical advice while self-isolating. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company.
If you’re returning to the UK from Iraq, consult the latest advice from the Department of Health and Social Care on actions to take.
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
Medical treatment
Medical facilities are limited. In the event of serious accident or illness, an evacuation by air ambulance may be required. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation.
Health risks
The temperature in summer months can exceed 50 ºC (122ºF), which can result in dehydration and serious health problems.
