Coronavirus guidance is being updated.
Read what you can and cannot do

Some commercial airline operators have been able, in exceptional circumstances, to negotiate flights out of Iraq.
There is currently one confirmed commercial Qatar Airlines flight from Baghdad International Airport to Doha Hamad International Airport on 13 May scheduled to depart at 15:50. Using this flight it is possible to also book a connecting flight through to London Heathrow. All passengers flying to Doha are required to have a ticket for a connecting flight from Doha before boarding. Tickets can be booked directly at Qatar Airways website: https://www.qatarairways.com.
We cannot guarantee further flights will be scheduled until normal commercial flights resume, therefore if you wish to leave Iraq you should consider leaving on this flight.
There are currently no further commercial options available to return to the UK from Iraq. The British Embassy is in contact with airlines and local authorities on when airports will reopen.
This travel advice will be updated when departure options become available.
Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British Embassy Facebook and Twitter.
Whilst in Iraq you should:
follow the advice of local authorities, including local measures to help minimise your risk of exposure to coronavirus
keep in regular contact with family and friends at home, so they know you are safe and well
See more information and advice about staying where you are if you cannot return to the UK.
Future travel options
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Your journey home
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Help and support
If you’re in Iraq and you need advice which is not covered by reading our travel advice then you can contact us online.
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the Foreign and Commonwealth Office on +44 207 008 1500.
The Embassy cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone. This page will be updated when departure options become available. To get the latest information, sign up for travel advice email alerts.
