!
Warning
FCDO advises against all travel to parts of Iraq.

This guide also has safety advice for regions of Iraq.
Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.    
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Iraq
Terrorists are very likely to try and carry out attacks in Iraq.
Attacks can occur throughout the country but are more frequent in areas where Daesh had a strong presence and capability. This includes the provinces of:
Anbar
Baghdad
Diyala
Ninewah
Salah-Al-Din
Tam’mim (Kirkuk)
There is still a risk of attacks by Daesh in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq.
Targets for terrorist attacks have included:
airports and public transport
land border crossings
markets, stores, hotels and restaurants
government buildings, political offices, police stations and military establishments
residential compounds
maritime facilities and oil facilities
religious sites and ceremonies
political events, large crowds
sports venues and stadiums
There is a heightened threat of attacks against western interests. While attacks can take place at any time, there’s a heightened threat during religious or public holidays.
Methods of attack have included:
large-scale co-ordinated bombings designed to cause mass casualties
rockets and mortars
shootings
suicide bombs
vehicle bombs
Fake vehicle checkpoints have been used to launch terrorist attacks. Militant groups opposed to a western presence pose a threat to UK and other interests in Iraq, including the Kurdistan Region. Foreign nationals are high-value targets for terrorists, insurgents and criminals. This includes those of non-western appearance. Indiscriminate attacks against public places and Iraqi civilians also occur.
UK prosecution for terrorism offences
If you travel to Iraq to fight, and your activities amount to offences against UK terrorism legislation, you could be prosecuted on your return to the UK.
Terrorist kidnap
There is a high threat of kidnapping throughout Iraq.
This includes both from Daesh and other terrorist and militant groups. Keep your security arrangements up-to-date and carefully plan any travel plans. Kidnappings can be for ideological reasons as well as financial or political gain. Targets have included British nationals in the past.
Close protection security is important but does not remove the threat. Previous kidnap victims have had security arrangements in place. 
The US Overseas Security Advisory Council has warned about the risk of kidnapping attempts on non-governmental organisation (NGO) staff. This includes those providing aid to Mosul. They have also warned about the elevated kidnap risk to US citizens in Baghdad and wider Iraq. This is linked to the elevated tensions between the US and Iran.
British nationals are seen as legitimate targets, including tourists, humanitarian aid workers, journalists and business travellers. If you are kidnapped, the reason for your presence is unlikely to protect you or secure your safe release. 
The long-standing policy of the British Government is not to make substantive concessions to hostage takers. The British Government considers that paying ransoms and releasing prisoners builds the capability of terrorist groups and finances their activities. This can, in turn, increase the risk of further hostage-taking. The Terrorism Act (2000) makes payments to terrorists illegal. 
Military activity in the Red Sea area      
There is a military response to Houthi militants’ attempts to disrupt international shipping in the Red Sea. The military activity is limited to the Red Sea and Yemen, but travel advice for nearby countries could change at short notice. You should monitor travel advice and follow instructions from local authorities.
Security situation
Some areas of Iraq have experienced recent attack by artillery, drones and rockets. US military installations continue to be a target, including in the Kurdistan Region.
The threat level may restrict UK government staff from travelling to certain areas.
If you’re travelling to Iraq, take security precautions:
get advice from a private security company
make arrangements for secure accommodation and transport
have contingency plans in place
stay up to date with local media
consider pre-deployment training
The security situation may change at short notice. You may need to ‘shelter in place’ or hunker down for several days. Keep essential supplies, such as food, water and medicine where you are staying.
In the event of widespread disturbances or a deterioration in the security situation, there may be limits to the help that FCDO can provide. Read further information and advice on how to deal with a crisis overseas.
Ensure your travel documents are up to date in case you need to leave Iraq at short notice. Do not rely on FCDO being able to help you evacuate in an emergency.
Protests
Protests take place in and around the International Zone in Baghdad and across Iraq. Clashes between Iraqi security forces and protesters have resulted in casualties and loss of life. Avoid rallies, marches and processions, and follow the instructions of local authorities.
Curfews
Curfews and vehicle bans can be issued at short notice, particularly during protests and civil unrest, but also around religious holidays, pilgrimages and on key political dates like elections.
Laws and cultural differences
Personal ID
It is illegal not to carry some form of photographic ID in Iraq. Always carry your passport or residence permit. The authorities may stop people for ID checks at checkpoints within cities and on main roads across Iraq. You should cooperate with officials conducting checks.
Lost and stolen passports
It is a legal requirement to publish the details of your lost or stolen passport in two local newspapers, after reporting the incident to the police. You may be refused an exit stamp until you have done so.
Ramadan
Ramadan is a holy month for Muslims. The dates vary by year and country. During this time, do not:
drink, smoke or chew gum in public in the daytime, including in your car
play loud music or dance
swear in public
Get more advice when you arrive from your tour guide, hotel or business contacts.
You should also:
check opening hours of shops and restaurants
be aware that if hotels and restaurants are providing food or drink in fasting hours, they may separate you from Islamic guests, for example with screens
follow local dress codes – clothing that does not meet local dress codes may cause more offence at this time
be aware that fasting can cause tiredness, particularly during the later afternoon and early evening
be patient and show tolerance
The Arba’ een
The Arba’ een, an annual pilgrimage that attracts millions of pilgrims to Iraq, usually occurs between August and September.
If you travel to Iraq during the pilgrimage, ensure that your belongings are secure at all times. Keep copies of your passports, visas and other important documents.
Child custody
Iraqi family law is very different from UK law. Male heads of household can impose ‘travel bans’ on family members. Even if you, or your child, hold a British passport, you may be subject to Iraqi laws.
If you are leaving Iraq with a child that has an Iraqi or dual-national Iraqi father you may need to show proof of parental permission to travel. This applies even if their mother is with them.
Journalists
Authorities may detain journalists using allegations of inadequate paperwork. Journalists should be extremely cautious and take adequate security measures.
Alcohol laws and bans
The import, manufacture, or selling of alcoholic drinks is punishable by fines of up to 25 million Iraqi dinars (IQD). FCDO is not aware of any instances of Iraqi officials stopping travellers carrying alcohol for personal use.
Illegal drugs and prison sentences
Iraq continues to practise the death penalty for a range of crimes including for:
drug trafficking
espionage
kidnapping
murder
rape
smuggling antiquities
terrorism
war crimes
LGBT+ travellers
In July, the Iraqi Parliament updated its Anti-Prostitution and Homosexuality Law which criminalises same-sex relationships, any promotion of same-sex relationships or behaviours, and bans people from changing gender. Under the amendment, same-sex relationships are now illegal and sexual acts could lead to a prison sentence between 10 to 15 years. If the Iraqi authorities consider your actions, clothing or other items to promote LGBT+ identities or prostitution,  you could be imprisoned for up to seven years and fined between 10 to 15 million Iraqi dinars.  
Under the new law, it is illegal to have or perform gender changing surgery, unless you have approval from the courts. You could be imprisoned for up to three years.
There is an increased risk of violence and threats (such as blackmail and intimidation) against anyone being thought to be part of the LGBT+ community or supporting their rights. There have been attacks against the LGBT+ community and its supporters.  
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers
Transport risks
Road travel
If you are planning to drive in Iraq, see information on driving abroad.
You’ll need to have both the 1968 version of the international driving permit (IDP) and your UK driving licence with you in the car. You cannot buy an IDP outside the UK, so get one before you travel.
Road travel within Iraq is dangerous. Driving standards are low compared to those in the UK. Road traffic accidents are frequent and often result in fatalities. Fake vehicle checkpoints have been used to launch terrorist attacks. There is also a risk of carjacking and robbery.
Air travel
When in an airport, be wary of anyone approaching you that you do not know or cannot identify. Do not accept offers from strangers for help or transport. Co-operate fully with security officials at airports and observe any additional security measures.
Your transfer vehicle should be pre-arranged or provided by a trusted sponsor.
Since October 2023, drone and rocket attacks have hit US military installations across Iraq. Erbil International Airport has had short closures, with operations resuming after a few hours. Indirect rocket attacks have occurred against Baghdad International Airport and Erbil Airport.
Flight schedules may change without notice. Contact your airline or travel company for the latest information before travelling. The UK Air Safety List (ASL) lists all known airlines in Iraq that do not meet international safety standards and are banned from operating commercial air services to, from, and within the UK. Check the UK Air Safety List when considering which airlines to fly with. The list is maintained by the Department for Transport, based on advice from the UK Civil Aviation Authority.
UK government staff working in Iraq are authorised to use aircraft operated by Iraqi Airways for internal flights on a case by case basis.
Sea travel
Ports are under a high risk of attack. Be extremely cautious if you are in any type of vessel in the northern Persian Gulf. Vessels are at an increased risk of attack in:
the Gulf of Oman
Northern Arabian Sea
Gulf of Aden
Bab El Mandeb
Consider any regional tensions that may affect your route and check whether sea borders will be open before your crossing.
Extreme weather and natural disasters
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards.
Flooding
Flash floods are common between November and March. Recent flooding in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq led to loss of life and disruption to travel. Be aware in areas of heavy rainfall and follow the advice of the local authorities.
Earthquakes
Earthquakes are a risk in Iraq.
The US Federal Emergency Management Agency website has advice about what to do before, during and after an earthquake.
Dust storms
Sand and dust storms are common during the spring and summer months. Poor visibility can create difficult driving conditions and affect flights.
