This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Iraq as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Iraq to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Iraq
A lockdown across federal Iraq (except for the Kurdistan Region of Iraq) will be in force from 30 July to 9 August 2020 to slow the spread of Coronavirus.
The Kurdistan Region of Iraq is subject to strict travel restrictions between provinces which are often introduced at short notice. These are published through local media and on www.moi.gov.krd.
You should keep up to date with information from your sponsor or employer in Iraq and/or with your airline on the impact of any existing travel plans. If you need further information about entry requirements, contact the local immigration authorities or the nearest Iraqi Embassy.
Health
If you are in Iraq and displaying symptoms of coronavirus you should seek medical advice while self-isolating. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company.
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Iraq
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
