Coronavirus (COVID-19): stay up to date
Find out how to return to the UK from Iraq
See information on how to stay safely as a visitor if you cannot return
See coronavirus travel advice for guidance on international travel
Sign up for email alerts for Iraq travel advice
If you’re visiting Iraq and are unable to return to the UK, see Staying during coronavirus
The Iraqi Civil Aviation Authority have suspended all flights in the country including the Kurdistan Region of Iraq with the exception of cargo flights and aircraft crossing Iraqi airspace. See Entry requirements
The Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) is advising British nationals against all non-essential international travel at this time. Specific advice for Iraq remains in place:
The FCO advise against all travel to Iraq including the Kurdistan Region of Iraq.
Cases of coronavirus (COVID-19) have been confirmed in Iraq. The authorities have introduced measures to limit the spread of the virus, including the suspension of passenger flights. See Staying during coronavirus
Iraqi airspace currently remains closed to further commercial flights. Should this change, we will highlight this through our travel advice and social media channels. We advise you check this travel advice regularly, sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British Embassy Facebook and Twitter.
Since 17 March non-core British Embassy staff in Baghdad and the British Consulate Erbil have been withdrawn. Core staff remain to continue operational work including consular assistance. UK Visa Application Centres in Baghdad, Erbil and Basra will be closed until further notice as a result of the impact of coronavirus measures.
The security situation throughout Iraq remains uncertain, and could deteriorate quickly. On 8 January 2020, Iran fired missiles against two military bases in Iraq containing US personnel, one close to Erbil International Airport. No foreign casualties were reported.
Following the attack on the coalition base at Taji in Iraq on 11 March, and subsequent US airstrikes, tensions may be raised across the region. There is a possibility of an increased threat against Western interests, including against UK citizens. You should remain vigilant and keep up to date with the latest developments, including via the media and this travel advice.
Large protests have been taking place in central Baghdad and across Iraq since October 2019. On 31 December and 1 January, violent demonstrations took place outside the US Embassy in Baghdad. There is a possibility of further protests in Baghdad.
There may be increased attention on Western nationals and interests in Iraq. If you’re in Iraq or decide to travel, make sure you have robust security arrangements and contingency plans in place and keep these under review. You should keep up to date with the latest developments across the country, including via the media and this travel advice, avoid any rallies, marches or processions, and follow the instructions of local authorities. See Political and security situation
In the event of a sudden deterioration in the security station, there may be limits to the assistance the FCO can provide, depending on the security and transport situation. You should not assume that the FCO will be able to provide assistance to leave the country.
According to Iraqi law you must have a visa before you travel, even if you’re intending to travel to the Kurdistan Region of Iraq. See Visas
The Iraqi Prime Minister announced the defeat of Daesh in Iraq on 9 December 2017. However, terrorists are still very likely to try to carry out attacks in Iraq. You should remain vigilant and monitor media reports. See Terrorism
There’s also a high threat of kidnapping throughout the country, from both Daesh and other terrorist and militant groups, which can be motivated by criminality or terrorism. You should review your security arrangements regularly and consider carefully any travel plans around the country. See Kidnap
Turkey conducts periodic airstrikes in the far north of the Kurdistan Region of Iraq (KRI) and on occasion, further south. Take extra care in mountainous areas, particularly near the border with Turkey. Crossing points along the Iraq-Turkey border may also be affected. See Kurdistan Region
The government of Iraq is taking measures to improve the structural integrity of the Mosul Dam as there is a risk the dam could fail. It’s currently impossible to accurately predict if or when this might occur. See Local travel
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission. Consular support is severely limited in Iraq. The British Embassy in Baghdad and the British Consulate-General in Erbil operate a limited consular service by appointment only. The Embassy and Consulate-General’s ability to visit locations across Iraq is limited and travel to unsecure areas to deliver consular services may not be possible.
Take out comprehensive travel and medical insurance before you travel.
