

Terrorists are very likely to try to carry out attacks in Iraq.
In December 2017, Iraq’s Prime Minister declared the territorial defeat of Daesh (formally referred to as ISIL) in Iraq. However, the risk of terrorist attacks in Iraq remains. Attacks are more frequent in areas where Daesh had a strong presence and capability, such as Anbar, Baghdad, Ninewah, Salah-Al-Din, Diyala and Tam’mim (Kirkuk) provinces, but can occur throughout the entire country.
While the Kurdistan Region has a different security environment to the rest of Iraq, there remains a risk of attacks by Daesh.
Targets for terrorist attacks have included: residential compounds, military establishments, oil facilities, airports, public transport, commercial venues, including markets and stores, maritime facilities, land border crossings, government buildings, hotels, restaurants, large crowds, police stations, political offices/events, sports venues/stadiums and religious sites/ceremonies. There is a heightened threat of attacks against western interests. While attacks can take place at any time, there’s a heightened threat during religious or public holidays.
Methods of attack have included shootings, large-scale co-ordinated bombings designed to cause mass casualties, suicide bombs, vehicle bombs, rockets and mortars.
Other militant groups opposed to western presence in Iraq continue to pose a threat to UK and other interests in Iraq, including the Kurdistan Region of Iraq.
Foreign nationals, including those of non-western appearance, are high value targets for terrorists, insurgents and criminals. Indiscriminate attacks against public places and Iraqi civilians also occur.
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. You should remain vigilant at all times.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
If you travel to Iraq to fight, and your activities amount to offences against UK terrorism legislation, you could be prosecuted on return to the UK.
Aviation
Terrorists in Iraq likely maintain the intent and capability to target aviation.
Targets for terrorist attacks have included Iraq’s Airports.
Since October 2023 drone and rocket attacks directed at US military installations have occurred across Iraq, including the Kurdistan Region of Iraq. Erbil International Airport has experienced temporary closures for brief periods with operations resuming after a few hours.
Both Baghdad International Airport, and Erbil Airport have been targeted by indirect rocket attacks. The most recent attacks took place in September 2021 (Erbil) and January 2022 (Baghdad).
You should co-operate fully with security officials at airports and observe any additional security measures.
Kidnap
There’s also a high threat of kidnapping throughout the country, including from both Daesh and other terrorist and militant groups. You should review your security arrangements regularly and consider carefully any travel plans around the country. Kidnappings can be for purely ideological reasons as well as financial or political gain. British nationals have previously been targeted.
You should regularly reassess your security arrangements and consider carefully any travel around the country. Close protection security is important, but does not remove the threat; a number of previous kidnap victims had security arrangements in place.
The US Overseas Security Advisory Council has previously issued warnings over the risk of kidnapping attempts on the vehicles of non-governmental organisation (NGO) staff providing aid to Mosul and on the elevated kidnap risk to US citizens in Baghdad and wider Iraq, linked to the elevated tensions between the US and Iran.
British nationals are viewed as legitimate targets, including those engaged in tourism, humanitarian aid work, journalism or business. If you’re kidnapped, the reason for your presence is unlikely to serve as a protection or secure your safe release.
International and local journalists have previously been detained in Iraq due to allegations of inadequate paperwork. Journalists should exercise extreme caution and take adequate security measures.
The long-standing policy of the British Government is not to make substantive concessions to hostage takers. The British Government considers that paying ransoms and releasing prisoners builds the capability of terrorist groups and finances their activities. This can, in turn, increase the risk of further hostage-taking. The Terrorism Act (2000) makes payments to terrorists illegal.
