!
Warning
FCDO advises against all travel to parts of Iraq.
!
Warning
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to parts of Iraq.

Your travel insurance could be invalidated if you travel against advice from the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO).
Areas where FCDO advises against travel  
Federal Iraq
FCDO advises against all travel to:
the parts of Anbar province which are west of, but not including Ramadi City
Basra province (except for Basra city)
Diyala province except for Baqubah City
Kirkuk province
Ninawa province
Salah al-Din province
Sadr City, part of Baghdad province
The parts of Baghdad province which are south of the Airport Road
Within 30km of federal Iraq’s borders with Iran, Syria, Saudi Arabia and Kuwait
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to:
The remainder of Anbar province
The remainder of Baghdad province
Basra city
Karbala Province
The remainder of Najaf Province
Babil Province
Al-Qadasiyah Province 
Dhi Qar Province
Baqubah City in Diyala province
The remainder of Wasit Province
The remainder of Maysan Province
The remainder of Al-Muthanna Province
Kurdistan Region of Iraq
FCDO advises against all travel to: 
5KM from the border with Turkey, except for the town of Ibrahim Khalil and the Ibrahim Khalil border crossing accessed from the east via the Ibrahim Khalil road 
5KM from Erbil (Arbil) Governate’s border with Iran in areas north of the Choman-Haji Omaran Rd 
The Amedi Mountains Region 
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to: 
The remainder of the Kurdistan Region of Iraq
Find out more about why FCDO advises against travel.
Regional risks and airspace restrictions
Hostilities in the region and between Israel and Iran have the potential to deteriorate further, quickly and without warning. On 22 June the US launched military strikes against Iranian nuclear facilities and on 23 June Iran launched military strikes against a US military base in Qatar.
As a precautionary measure, we encourage you to:
read the FCDO’s advice on if you’re affected by a crisis abroad
monitor local and international media for the latest information
be vigilant and follow the instructions of local authorities
take shelter and stay away from windows if instructed. If you require urgent assistance call 911 or 122
avoid military or security facilities
check with relevant airlines for the latest updates before travelling.
Iraqi airspace restrictions have been implemented. Only a very limited number of international flights are still going ahead. Given the rapidly changing context, it is unclear when flights transiting Iraqi airspace will resume as normal.
Consular support
Consular support is severely limited in areas where FCDO advises against travel.
Travel insurance
If you choose to travel despite FCDO advice, research your destinations and get appropriate travel insurance. Insurance should cover your itinerary, planned activities and expenses in an emergency.
About FCDO travel advice
FCDO provides advice about risks of travel to help you make informed decisions. Find out more about FCDO travel advice.
Get travel advice updates
Sign up to get email notifications when this travel advice is updated.
Follow FCDO:   
travel advice on X
travel advice on Facebook
Travel Aware on Instagram
