Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Trinidad and Tobago on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Trinidad and Tobago.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements. You should contact local authorities for information on testing facilities.
The government of Trinidad and Tobago reopened its international borders on 17 July 2021. Full guidelines on travel requirements are available on the Ministry of Health’s website.
Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British High Commission on Facebook and Twitter.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCDO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCDO.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there. If you are staying in hotel accommodation and you test positive you will be moved to a government medical facility, with guidance and assistance from the Ministry of Health, and placed in quarantine at a hospital in the parallel healthcare system or state approved medical facility. You can expect to be placed under the Ministry of Health’s care within 24hrs of receiving a positive test result. Minors (under 18) testing positive will be required to isolate immediately at the discretion of the County Medical Officers of Health (CMOH) and an additional quarantine order will be applied.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Trinidad and Tobago
The government of Trinidad and Tobago keeps restrictions in response to COVID-19 under review. On 16 May 2021, Trinidad and Tobago introduced a State of Emergency. A curfew is currently in place from 9pm until 5am. This is in response to the increase in COVID-19 cases in Trinidad and Tobago.
Accommodation
Many hotels remain open for business. You should contact your hotel directly to understand any restrictions in place.
Public places and services
Schools and universities remain closed for most year groups.
The government has introduced a range of restrictions to curtail the increase in COVID-19 cases. Effective 16 May 2021, a State of Emergency came into effect. A curfew is in place from 9pm to 5am. Public gatherings are limited to groups of 5 people (10 for weddings and funerals). Outdoor sports or exercise in public places is permitted in groups of 5 or less, however team-sports are not currently allowed. Places of worship have reopened at 25% capacity.
Beaches, rivers and public pools are also off-limits for members of the public.
Bars, cinemas, casinos, gyms, clubs and theatres are closed.
Restaurant in-room dining remains prohibited - however food take-away services, drive-through and curb side pick-up are permitted.
Retail and personal service sectors (spas and hairdressers) have reopened.
The inter-island ferry service operating between Trinidad and Tobago has increased capacity to 75% and the frequency of flights on the domestic air bridge between Trinidad and Tobago has increased to four daily return services.
The government of Trinidad and Tobago reviews these public health restrictions regularly.
Under the public health regulations of 31 August 2020, it is a legal requirement for all individuals aged 8 years and over to wear a mask in public spaces, including when travelling in private vehicles. Failure to do so attracts a fine. You should adhere to all precautionary measures put in place by the local authorities.
Healthcare in Trinidad and Tobago
The Trinidad and Tobago government has set up a COVID-19 hotline staffed by doctors. If you suspect you have any symptoms please contact the hotline on +1 868 877-WELL (9355) from Trinidad or +1 868 800-HEAL (4325) toll-free from Tobago.
COVID-19 testing facilities in Trinidad and Tobago can be found at the T&T Ministry of Health’s website.
You should not report to any healthcare facility but instead self-quarantine and follow instructions provided by the authorities.
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Trinidad and Tobago.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Trinidad and Tobago
We will update this page when the Government of Trinidad and Tobago announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Trinidad and Tobago national vaccination programme started in February 2021 and is using the AstraZeneca, Pfizer-BioNTech, Sinopharm and Janssen (Johnson & Johnson) vaccines. The Government of Trinidad and Tobago has stated that British nationals resident in Trinidad and Tobago are eligible for vaccination if they choose to join the programme. Further information on the vaccination programme is available on the Government of Trinidad and Tobago’s Ministry of Health website
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in Trinidad and Tobago, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
