This page has information on travelling to Trinidad and Tobago. Check what you must do to return to the UK.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport from the UK, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Trinidad and Tobago set and enforce entry rules.
All travellers
You will need to apply for a Travel Pass via the following online gateway up to 72 hours prior to travel. You will need to upload a negative COVID-19 lab test result (PCR or antigen) to obtain it. The TTravel Pass can be printed or saved on a mobile device for use to board the flight and to gain entry into Trinidad and Tobago. See the TTravel Pass website for further details on additional entry requirements.
If you’re fully vaccinated
If you’re fully vaccinated, you can enter Trinidad and Tobago without needing to test or quarantine.
At least 14 days must have passed since your second dose of the vaccine. Find out if you qualify as fully vaccinated in Trinidad and Tobago on the TT Travel Pass website.
Ensure that you take a COVID-19 PCR or laboratory-acquired Antigen Test result (home Antigen tests will not be accepted) within 3 days (72 hours) of your departure.
You will need a COVID-19 “TTravel pass” to enter or travel through Trinidad as a visitor. You can download this from the Trinidadian Ministry of National Security. You will be asked to show this pass before boarding your flight. No visitors will be allowed to enter Trinidad without a TTravel pass and a negative COVID-19 test (PCR or antigen), taken no more than 72 hours before boarding.
Facemasks are mandatory, and it is a legal requirement for all individuals aged 8 years and over to wear a mask in public spaces. Failure to do so attracts a fine. You should adhere to all precautionary measures put in place by the local authorities including the mandatory wearing of facemasks in vehicles unless occupants are family members who live under the same roof.
Proof of vaccination status
You must present proof that you have been fully vaccinated (minimum 2 doses) to enter Trinidad and Tobago.
Trinidad and Tobago will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 vaccination record and proof of COVID-19 vaccination issued in the Crown Dependencies. Your final vaccine dose must have been administered at least 14 days prior to travel. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status. Your vaccine must be on the list of approved vaccines by the World Health Organisation.
During travel, all passengers arriving into Trinidad and Tobago must wear properly fitting face masks and are encouraged to adhere to existing public health and social measures. Visit the Ministry of Health website for full detail.
If you’re not fully vaccinated
Non-nationals who are not fully vaccinated will not be allowed entry to Trinidad and Tobago at this time.
Unvaccinated passengers (i.e. people who are citizens or have permanent resident status only) will be required to quarantine at a designated State Supervised Quarantine Facility for 7 days on arrival (at a designated holding hotel at your own expense).
Unvaccinated passengers (citizens or those with permanent resident status only) will need to arrange for state-supervised quarantine before beginning their application for a TTravel Pass. You must have proof of confirmed accommodation at one of the facilities on the list of approved state supervised quarantine hotels, available on the TTravel Pass website. You will be required to undergo a medical assessment within 24hrs of arrival and take a second PCR test 7 days after arrival. Passengers testing negative on day 7 will be discharged. See the Ministry of Health Quarantine Protocols for Passengers Entering Trinidad and Tobago and TTravel Pass.
Children and young people
Children aged 18 and under, travelling with a parent or guardian who has been fully vaccinated, have to take a PCR Test or laboratory acquired Antigen Test, 72 hours prior to arrival into Trinidad and Tobago.
Unvaccinated children under age 18, travelling with a vaccinated parent or guardian, will not be required to quarantine providing they have proof of a negative PCR taken with 72 hours prior to arrival. In addition, unvaccinated children will be required to have a further PCR Test between day 3 and 5 after arrival in the country. Providing the second test is negative, no further monitoring is necessary. If the result of the second test is positive, you will need to report it to the County Medical Officers of Health (CMOH).
If you’re transiting through Trinidad and Tobago
Transiting is when you pass through one country on the way to your final destination.
Travellers transiting through Trinidad and Tobago on their way to another country and who are staying in the airport (airside) are not subject to any vaccination requirement.
However, if you need to pass through immigration, for example to stay in a hotel for a flight the next day (sometimes known as a layover) or in order to board a connecting flight at a different airport Terminal, you will need to follow vaccination and testing requirements (and show proof at immigration).
Further information about transiting through Trinidad and Tobago can be found on the TTravel Pass website.
Sailing travel restrictions
You can sail into and transit out of the marinas or Chaguaramas Bay. You are required to wear a mask (unless you are a family group). Failure to follow government regulations could result in being intercepted by the Coast Guard and being handed over to the Trinidad and Tobago Police Service. If you are entering Trinidad & Tobago by boat for the first time you will be required to clear Immigration and Customs first in Trinidad, not Tobago.
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
Check with your travel provider to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Passport validity
If you are visiting Trinidad and Tobago, your passport should be valid for a minimum of six months from the date you arrive.
Further details on these and other entry requirements can be found on the Government of the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago’s Immigration Division website or by contacting the High Commission of Trinidad and Tobago in London.
Visas
You do not need a visa to visit Trinidad and Tobago as a visitor. Visitors are generally given 90 days to remain in the country, but extensions can be obtained from the Passport and Immigration Department, in Port of Spain (Trinidad) and Scarborough (Tobago).
You must be in possession of a valid return ticket and have sufficient funds for your stay in Trinidad and Tobago. Further details on these and other entry requirements can be found on the Government of the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago’s Immigration Division website or by contacting the High Commission of Trinidad and Tobago in London.
Returning residents may be asked to show their residence/ work permits on arrival into Trinidad & Tobago.
Entry stamps
If you are a British national and the entry stamp in your passport is due to expire you should email extensions.international@gov.tt with a scanned copy of the biodata page of your passport, a copy of your last entry stamp, your address in T&T and a contact number.
If you are a British national with a work permit that is due to expire, you should request an entry stamp extension as detailed above whilst your work permit application is under consideration.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents are accepted for entry, airside transit and exit from Trinidad and Tobago.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
Returning to the UK
Check what you must do to return to the UK.
