Coronavirus
Coronavirus Cases of coronavirus (COVID-19) have been confirmed in Trinidad. The Trinbagonian authorities have introduced a number of measures to limit the spread if the virus. The Foreign and Commonwealth Office advise against all but essential travel to Trinidad and Tobago due to restrictions imposed by the Trinidad and Tobago authorities in response to the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. These include a ban on entry by non-nationals after midnight on Tuesday 17 March. British nationals in Trinidad and Tobago can expect disruption to flights and should contact their airlines, travel agents and tour operators.
We strongly urge non-resident British nationals in Trinidad and Tobago to make alternative travel arrangements with their airlines to leave urgently to avoid difficulties they will face if travel out of the country and the region is further restricted and they are unable to get home.
Trinidad and Tobago nationals and non-national permanent residents who have visited France, Germany, Spain, mainland China, Singapore, South Korea, Japan, Iran and Italy in the 14 days prior to arrival are permitted to enter with a mandatory self-isolation period of 14 days. Further information and guidance is available at www.health.gov.tt
Temperature screening is in place at the airport.
The Trinidad and Tobago authorities have announced a ban on cruise ships entering until the end of the current cruise season.
Schools and universities will be closed for one week from 14 March.
Health
At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
In some areas of Trinidad and Tobago medical facilities can be limited. Private clinics are able to treat most ordinary problems, but medical evacuation to Miami or elsewhere may be necessary in more serious cases. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation.
UK health authorities have classified Trinidad and Tobago as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For information and advice about the risks associated with Zika virus, visit the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
Mosquito-borne dengue fever is endemic to Latin America and the Caribbean and can occur throughout the year.
The 2013 UNAIDS Report on the Global AIDS Epidemic estimated that around 14,000 adults aged 15 or over in Trinidad & Tobago were living with HIV; the prevalence percentage was estimated at around 1.5% of the adult population compared to the prevalence percentage in adults in the UK of around 0.25%. Exercise normal precautions to avoid exposure to HIV/AIDS.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 811 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment. 
