

Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.    
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Trinidad and Tobago
Terrorist attacks in Trinidad and Tobago cannot be ruled out.
Attacks could be indiscriminate including in places visited by foreign nationals. Stay aware of your surroundings, keep up to date with local media reports and follow the advice of local authorities.  
Nationwide state of emergency  
On January 13, 2025, the Trinidad and Tobago authorities extended the nationwide state of emergency for a further 3 months. No curfew has been imposed and there are no restrictions on public gatherings or marches.  
During the state of emergency in Trinidad and Tobago, security forces can: 
search persons and property without a warrant
arrest and detain without a warrant
Expect heightened police and military presence. Always carry your ID and comply with local authorities.   
Crime
Carnival and other large-scale events 
Robberies and opportunistic crime may occur during the carnival period.  If you are attending a large-scale event, such as the Carnival celebrations in Trinidad, you should take sensible precautions and always be aware of your surroundings. Avoid displaying jewellery or valuable items that may attract attention of criminals. Do not leave your drinks unattended, practice caution at crowded events and have a clear plan to return home safely after attending any events.
Violent crime and assault: Trinidad & Tobago
In Trinidad, there’s a high level of violent crime. Gang-related attacks and shootings are increasing around the city centre of Port of Spain, including Laventille, Morvant and Barataria. In Tobago, violent crime is rare. Instances of homicides and armed robberies are rising.
You can reduce the risk of being targeted when on foot by:
avoiding unlit areas at night
using well-populated roads and paths
Stay aware of your surroundings and carry a mobile phone with roaming for use in an emergency.
Violent criminals often carry out attacks in vehicles, ranging from the threat of violence to sexual assault and robbery, kidnapping for ransom, rape and murder. You can take precautions against being targeted by:
using well-established taxi firms, recommended by locals or your hotel
being cautious about accepting lifts in a private car or ‘maxi taxi’
taking local advice to avoid areas affected by gang violence
keeping the windows closed and doors locked while driving
Protecting yourself and your belongings
If you’re staying in a villa, especially in an isolated area, it should have adequate security, including external security lighting, grills and overnight security guards.
Withdrawing cash from an ATM or changing money can make you a target for pickpockets or muggers. Consider asking hotel or villa staff to take you by car.
Keep money, valuables and passports somewhere safe, and never leave anything in an unattended vehicle.
Take care when using dating apps in Trinidad and Tobago, especially those used by the LGBT+ community. Criminals have used apps like Grindr to trick, rob, and assault people.
Social media platforms are increasingly being used to facilitate criminal activity, be cautious about what you post about yourself online.
Keep an eye on your card when making purchases to avoid card skimming. Similarly, when making online purchases check the shop or seller is legitimate and consider using credit cards for payment. Many of these protect online purchases as part of the UK Consumer Credit Act.
Drink spiking
Avoid accepting drinks from anyone you do not know, and do not leave drinks unattended.
Laws and cultural differences
Laws on clothing
It is an offence for anyone, including children, to dress in camouflage clothing or bring any into the country.  
Illegal drugs penalties
Trinidad and Tobago has decriminalised the possession of up to 30g of cannabis or up to 5g of cannabis resin. However, you’re not allowed to smoke cannabis in public spaces or while operating a vehicle.
If you are stopped with more than these amounts, you could get a fine of 50,000 Trinidad and Tobago dollars. More severe penalties remain in place for other drug-related offences.
LGBT+ travellers
In March 2025, consensual same-sex activity between men became a crime punishable by up to five years imprisonment. It is also illegal for LGBT+ foreign nationals to enter the country, although in practice this has not been enforced. It is possible LGBT+ visitors could receive negative attention if they show affection in public.
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Transport risks
Road travel
If you are planning to drive in Trinidad and Tobago, see information on driving abroad.
You can use a UK photocard driving licence to drive in Trinidad and Tobago for up to 90 days. If you still have a paper driving licence, you may need to update it to a photocard licence or get the 1949 version of the international driving permit (IDP)) as well. You’ll need an IDP if you stay longer than 90 days.
Check the licence requirements if you’re living in Trinidad and Tobago.
Driving standards and road conditions
Driving standards in Trinidad and Tobago are mixed. High-speed road accidents on the main highways in Trinidad often result in fatalities. There have been accidents caused by drink-driving, including on the Beetham-Churchill Roosevelt Highway to and from the airport.
Some roads are narrow and winding, and road surfaces are of a low standard. Pedestrians often walk on the roads, and drivers do not always indicate. Take care when driving and observe speed limits.
Take extra care when driving at night as some roads are unlit. Road signs and hazards may not be easily visible.
Keep vehicle doors locked, and windows closed whilst driving. There have been incidents of items being grabbed through car windows. Do not leave bags, purses, handbags exposed on the seat of the vehicle. Keep them out of sight.
Extreme weather and natural disasters
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards.
Hurricanes
The Caribbean hurricane season normally runs from June to November. Trinidad and Tobago is rarely affected by hurricanes, but can have severe storms. You can monitor local and international weather updates from the US National Hurricane Center and check the World Meteorological Organisation weather reports for Trinidad and Tobago.
Earthquakes
Earthquakes are a risk in Trinidad and Tobago. The last serious earthquake was in 2018 and caused damage to some buildings and communication networks. The US Federal Emergency Management Agency website has advice about what to do before, during and after an earthquake.
Volcanic eruptions
Monitor the alert level of ‘Kick’em Jenny’, an underwater volcano located off the coast of Grenada and about 200km from Trinidad. It erupts every few years. Follow the advice of the local authorities if there is increased activity.
