Coronavirus guidance is being updated.
Read the Prime Minister’s statement for the latest information.

This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Trinidad and Tobago as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Trinidad and Tobago to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Trinidad and Tobago
For information on entering Trinidad and Tobago, see Entry Requirements.
The Government has announced a phased approach to the easing of COVID-19 restrictions. On 08 June the country moved into phase four, whereby hairdressers, barbershops and spas reopened for business. Restrictions on air travel between Trinidad and Tobago have been lifted and hotels with outdoor facilities are now permitted to provide some degree of in-house service. Other food establishments and restaurants are providing take away and delivery services only. Places of worship are scheduled to reopen limited services from 12 June. Beaches remain closed and are expected to reopen on 22 June.
Members of the public are permitted to engage in restricted outdoors activities in groups of no more than 10. Other restrictions, including the ‘stay at home’ order for the non-essential labour force continue to apply to some categories of businesses.
You must wear a mask, to cover your nose and mouth, in public spaces. You should adhere to all precautionary measures put in place by the local authorities. Schools and universities are also closed until September 2020.
Travel restrictions
If you are on a yacht, do not sail or transit out of the marinas or Chaguaramas Bay. You will be intercepted by the Coast Guard and handed over to the Trinidad and Tobago Police Service. The charges are TT$50,000 fine or 6 months in jail.
Entry stamps
If you are a British national and the entry stamp in your passport is due to expire due to the border closure you should request an extension by contacting the Trinidad and Tobago Immigration authorities by sending an email to extensions.international@gov.tt with a scanned copy of the biodata page of your passport, a copy of your last entry stamp, your address in T&T and a contact number.
If you are a British national with a work permit that is due to expire, you should request an entry stamp extension as detailed above whilst your work permit application is under consideration.
Health
The Trinidad and Tobago government has set up a COVID-19 hotline staffed by doctors. If you suspect you have any symptoms please contact the hotline on +1 868 877-WELL (9355) from Trinidad or +1 868 800-HEAL (4325) toll-free from Tobago.
You should not report to any healthcare facility but instead self-quarantine and follow instructions provided by the authorities.
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Trinidad and Tobago.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Trinidad and Tobago and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
