The FCDO advises against all but essential travel to:
the whole of Trinidad and Tobago based on the current assessment of COVID-19 risks.
If you are returning to the UK from Trinidad and Tobago, you will need to self-isolate on your return (unless you are exempt). Check the latest guidance for England, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales.
Returning to the UK
Trinidad and Tobago is on the amber list for entering England. Check what you must do to enter England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
Trinidad and Tobago’s international borders are closed. There are currently no commercial flight options available for travelling into or out of Trinidad and Tobago. British nationals wishing to enter or depart from Trinidad and Tobago via other available options must first obtain a travel exemption to do so from Trinidad and Tobago’s Ministry of National Security via an online application and follow local advice.
There has been some regional flight disruptions as a result of volcanic ash connected to volcanic activity on the island of St Vincent. The situation continues to change and persons wishing to travel should check with their airline for flight information, as further disruptions cannot be ruled out.
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
If you cannot leave Trinidad and Tobago at this time, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCDO’s guidance on foreign travel insurance.
For information about COVID-19 vaccines, see the Coronavirus page.
Over 30,000 British nationals visit Trinidad and Tobago every year. Most visits are trouble-free.
There are high levels of violent crime in Trinidad, including murder, particularly in parts of the capital Port of Spain. You should follow the instructions of the local authorities. See Crime
Terrorist attacks in Trinidad and Tobago cannot be ruled out. Attacks could be indiscriminate, including in crowded spaces and places visited by foreigners. See Terrorism
There is a risk of mosquito-borne illnesses in Trinidad and Tobago from dengue fever. You should take steps to avoid being bitten by mosquitoes. See Health
UK health authorities have classified Trinidad and Tobago as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For information and advice about the risks associated with Zika virus, visit the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
Trinidad and Tobago is rarely affected by hurricanes, but severe tropical storms can occur, which can result in localised flooding and landslides. You can monitor local and international weather updates from the National Hurricane Centre. See Hurricanes
You can contact the emergency services by calling 999 (police), 811 (ambulance) or 990 (fire).
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.
The Overseas Business Risk service offers information and advice for British companies operating overseas on how to manage political, economic, and business security-related risks.
