Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for French Guiana on the TravelHealthPro website.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in French Guiana.
Returning to the UK
Travelling from and returning to the UK
If you plan to pass through another country to return to the UK, check the travel advice for the country you’re transiting. If you will pass through a red list country, book your hotel quarantine package before travelling to the UK.
French Guiana is on the red list for entering England. From 4am on Monday 11 October, French Guiana will no longer be on the red list for entering England. Check what you must do to travel abroad and return to England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in French Guiana
There are local travel restrictions in place in French Guiana.
The French Government has outlined measures to stem the spread of coronavirus, in the French Overseas Territories. For further information on the measures which apply to French Guiana, see the French government website. The local Prefecture’s website will have details of any further local restrictions.
Healthcare in French Guiana
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in French Guiana.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in French Guiana
Wherever possible British nationals should aim to be vaccinated in the country where they live. We will update this page when the Government of French Guiana announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The French Guiana vaccination programme started in January 2021 and is using the Pfizer-BioNTech, AstraZeneca and Moderna vaccines. British nationals resident in French Guiana are eligible for vaccination. Further information on the vaccination programme is available on the local Prefecture’s website and the French Government’s website (French language only).
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in French Guiana, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
