This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in French Guiana set and enforce entry rules. For further information contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to. You should also consider checking with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Entry rules in response to coronavirus (COVID-19)
Travel to French Guiana is severely restricted until further notice. Travellers must prove that entry is for essential reasons. You may also need to request permission from the Prefecture in order to enter. The form for requesting permission is available on the Prefecture’s website.
All travellers over the age of 11 must undertake a test for COVID-19 within 72 hours before departure for French Guiana. The test is obligatory and the traveller must show proof of a negative result before embarking. Arrivals from most destinations will also be required to self-isolate for seven days, before taking another PCR test. See the local Prefecture website for further information.
Travellers may also need to produce a self-certified document affirming that they have no COVID symptoms and that to their knowledge they have not been in contact with any person confirmed positive within the last 14 days. You should check with your travel operator and the local Prefecture’s advice ahead of travel.
In addition, you will have to provide the completed necessary travel “attestation” which is available from the French government’s website.
Quarantine may be requested by authorities in other territories if travelling from French Guiana. Airlines may refuse boarding to anyone who does not produce both proof of a negative result and the self-certified document.
These entry requirements are subject to change. For further information on the entry restrictions in place for French Overseas Territories, see the French government’s website before travelling.
If travelling via France, you should also check our Travel Advice for France.
Visas
French Guiana is an Overseas Department of France (département d’outre-mer) and is part of the European Union.
If you hold a British Citizen passport, you do not need a visa to enter French Guiana for stays of up to three months.
Other British passport holders, and those who plan to stay longer than three months, should check the current entry requirements on the website of the French Ministry of Foreign Affairs and, if necessary, confirm with the nearest French Diplomatic mission.
Passport validity
You must have at least six months left on an adult or child passport to travel to most countries in Europe.
If you renewed your current passport before the previous one expired, extra months may have been added to its expiry date. Any extra months on your passport over 10 years may not count towards the six months needed.
Check your passport is valid for travel before you book your trip. You will need to renew your passport before travelling if you do not have enough time left on your passport.
UK residents in French Guiana
If you live in French Guiana, you should carry your residence document, as well as your valid passport when you travel. If you have applied but not yet received your document, carry your certificate of application. You will have received this as an email. If you have not yet applied for a residence document, you should carry evidence that you are resident in French Guiana. This could include a tenancy agreement or a utility bill in your name, dating from 2020. For more information, including on how to apply for a residence document, see the French government’s website.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK emergency travel documents are accepted for entry, airside transit and exit from French Guiana.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
