

Terrorism  
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.      
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad. 
Terrorism in French Guiana 
Although there is no recent history of terrorism in French Guiana, attacks cannot be ruled out. 
Crime 
Protecting yourself and your belongings 
Crime levels are low, but there is a risk of being robbed in some areas of Cayenne, especially after dark.  
To reduce your personal risk: 
avoid isolated areas including secluded beaches, particularly after dark  
take a licensed or pre-arranged taxi after visiting an ATM in case you are followed 
do not wear expensive-looking jewellery or watches 
go into a shop or café to use your mobile 
place most of your cash and your valuables and travel documents in a safety deposit box or hotel safe 
Outdoor activities and adventure tourism   
Swimming safety 
See water safety on holiday from the Royal Life Saving Society. 
Scuba diving 
Diving schools may have limited resources and do not always observe safety and maintenance standards. Always:    
check a dive operator’s credentials 
check the conditions on your insurance policy – some policies require dive instructors to have certain qualifications 
make sure safety equipment is available on the boat, particularly oxygen 
ask about safety precautions, including the ability to transfer divers to a hyperbaric chamber 
If you have not had any previous diving experience, check what to do if something goes wrong, including how to call for help while at sea. 
Transport risks  
Road travel  
If you are planning to drive in French Guiana, see information on driving abroad and check the rules of the road in the RAC’s France guide as French driving laws apply. The guide lists driving regulations and other legal requirements you need to be aware of. 
You can use a UK photocard driving licence to drive in French Guiana. If you still have a paper driving licence, you may need to update it to a photocard licence or get the correct version of the international driving permit (IDP) as well.  
Hire car companies often have stricter requirements for their customers, such as a year of driving experience, a higher minimum age and holding an IDP. 
Drink-driving is a serious offence in French Guiana. The blood alcohol limit (0.05%) is lower than in England, Wales and Northern Ireland. If you are tested and found to be above the limit, you may get a fine and possible imprisonment. 
Extreme weather and natural disasters 
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards. 
Hurricanes  
There’s a risk of tropical storms during the rainy season from December to July.  
Monitor local news and check World Meteorological Organization and US National Hurricane Center weather reports for the region.    
