Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

Coronavirus (COVID-19): stay up to date
Cases of coronavirus (COVID-19) have been confirmed in French Guiana. See information on measures introduced in French Guiana to limit the spread of the virus. Find out how to return to the UK from French Guiana.
See coronavirus travel advice for guidance on international travel.
Sign up for email alerts for French Guiana travel advice.
There are currently limited commercial options available to return to the UK from French Overseas Territories. With the exception of Réunion, all regular commercial flights between mainland France and French Overseas Territories are suspended. For more information see the Travel Advice for France.
To enter the French Overseas Territories, the French government have confirmed that individuals will need to complete a travel certificate. They will also be subject to a health check upon arrival, which may result in a period of quarantine for the individual concerned. Like mainland France, individuals travelling within or transiting through French Overseas Territories will also need to carry an attestation certifying the reason for travel.
On 8 April 2020, French authorities introduced a requirement to complete a travel certificate to enter the Overseas Territories. Depending on your point of departure, you should complete a Trip from Mainland France to French Overseas Territories or an International travel from abroad to French Overseas Territories travel certificate, which is listed on the French Ministry of Interior webpage. This travel certificate should be completed before departing for France Overseas Territories, in order to be shown to French border authorities on entry and, where appropriate, transportation companies prior to boarding. If you do not complete the certificate, you may be unable to complete your journey. Please note you must carry a physical copy of the declaration; electronic versions will not be accepted. You are able to produce a handwritten copy of the text you do not have access to a printed form. If you are travelling from the French Overseas Territories to mainland France, you will need to complete a separate travel certificate; see France Travel Advice.
In order to travel within or to transit through French Overseas Territories, you should complete an Attestation de déplacement dérogatoire to certify your reason for travel. You can carry a physical copy or an electronic version of this “attestation” (declaration). This declaration should be completed before starting your journey. For French Overseas Territories, this declaration does not replace the requirement for an travel certificate, detailed above. Further information, including links to both these documents, is available on the Ministry of Interior webpage.
The French Government outlined new measures on 16 March 2020 to stem the spread of coronavirus, which also apply to the French Overseas Territories. This included confining people to their homes except for outings for specific purposes effective from midday 17 March 2020. The local Prefecture website will have details of any further local restriction. See the Travel Advice for France for more information on Covid-19.
UK health authorities have classified French Guiana as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For more information and advice, visit the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in French Guiana, attacks can’t be ruled out. See Terrorism.
Crime levels are low, but serious crime does occur. See Crime.
The rainy season in French Guiana, during which tropical storms may occur, takes place between December and July. See Natural disasters.
Consular support may be limited in French Guiana. However, the British Embassy in Paris, France can provide consular support to British nationals.
Take out comprehensive travel and medical insurance before you travel.
