Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Ghana on the TravelHealthPro website
The majority of COVID-19 cases are concentrated in the Greater Accra region. It is a legal requirement to wear a mask in public, and in private vehicles with more than one occupant. For current information on COVID-19 hotspots in Ghana, check on the Ghana Health Service COVID-19 website.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
Kotoka International Airport is open. Commercial flights are operating to and from Ghana. Check with your travel company for the latest information.
Land and sea borders remain closed.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Ghana, including COVID-19 testing requirements.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements. You should contact local authorities for information on testing facilities.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Ghana
Domestic flights and public transport systems are operating normally.
Public transport systems are operating normally.
Accommodation
Most hotels and other rented accommodation are now open, and implementing COVID-19 health and safety measures. Contact your chosen accommodation direct to confirm details.
Public spaces and services
The Government of Ghana has eased some COVID-19 social restrictions but these can change at short notice. You should be aware that:
The Government of Ghana recommends the use of takeaway service where possible and that people do not sit down to eat in restaurants.
Pubs, cinemas and nightclubs are closed.
Beaches are closed but some tourist sites remain open.
Weddings, concerts, parties, theatrical performances and funerals are banned (private burials with no more than 25 attendees are allowed).
It is now a legal requirement to wear face masks, including when leaving or returning to your place of residence, and when travelling in vehicles with more than one occupant. Notices of ‘no mask, no entry’ are displayed at vantage points including offices, shops, markets, malls, banks and pharmacies. The Ghana Police Service have been issued with an extensive list of places they can effect arrest, that includes outdoor spaces such as car parks, markets and the street.
Under local COVID-19 protocols, people are strongly advised to wash their hands, use hand sanitiser and avoid shaking-hands with one another. People are being advised to continue to adhere to strict social distancing.
Healthcare in Ghana
The Ghana Ministry of Health advises that if you develop fever, cough or difficulty breathing and recently returned from a COVID-19 affected area or have come into contact with a person confirmed to have COVID-19, you should call any of the following toll-free numbers: 112, +233 50 949 7700 and +233 558 439 868.
Unlike in the UK, you will need to go to a pharmacy to obtain most over-the-counter medicines. Only a very limited selection are available at supermarkets or other stores and you may be offered as an alternative, another brand or a similar generic medicine. Where possible, purchase known brands or medicines with a Ghana Food and Drug Administration registration number stamped on the packet. Pharmacies are widely available and are usually identified by a green cross. They will accept prescriptions from the UK.
For contact details of English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Ghana.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 treatment centres and diagnostics capacity are available across Ghana but are concentrated in the Greater Accra and Ashanti regions. Government resources for treatment of severe COVID-19 cases are currently centralised in Greater Accra Region.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Ghana
Wherever possible British nationals should aim to be vaccinated in the country where they live. As further information is available about the national vaccination programme, this page will be updated. Sign up to get email notifications.
British nationals resident in Ghana that fit into one of the Government of Ghana’s target groups should seek advice from their healthcare provider. If advised you are eligible and the vaccine is suitable, you should wait until your target group is called before attending a vaccine clinic.
The Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) is the UK authority responsible for assessing the safety, quality and efficacy of vaccines. It has authorised the Pfizer/BioNTech, Oxford/AstraZeneca and Moderna vaccines for temporary supply and use in the UK. Find out more about MHRA approval for these vaccines.
Information about vaccines used in other national programmes, including regulatory status, should be available from the local authorities. This list of Stringent Regulatory Authorities recognised by the World Health Organisation may also be a useful source of additional information. Find out more information about the COVID-19 vaccines on the World Health Organization COVID-19 vaccines page.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
