This page has information on travelling to Ghana. Check what you must do to return to the UK.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport from the UK, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Ghana set and enforce entry rules.
All travellers
You need a visa to enter Ghana. See Visas section for more information.
You must complete a health declaration form. You will also need to complete a separate health declaration form for any children aged 5 to 12. All passengers may also be asked to complete hard copy self-declaration forms on the flight, confirming they are fit to travel and providing details to facilitate contact tracing.
When arriving to Ghana all travellers:
may be requested to wear a face-mask at all times at the airport
undergo a temperature check
There are different requirements for fully vaccinated travellers and those not fully vaccinated.
If you’re fully vaccinated
All travellers aged 18 years and over are required to provide evidence of being fully vaccinated against COVID-19 when arriving into Ghana. The Ghana Health Service defines a fully vaccinated person as someone who has taken the full dose of vaccines approved and registered by the Food and Drugs Authority of Ghana. This is one dose of Johnson and Johnson, or two doses of AstraZeneca, Pfizer, Moderna or Sputnik V.
From 28 March 2022, fully vaccinated travellers do not need to take a coronavirus test to travel to Ghana and do not need to book to be tested on arrival. You will need to present your vaccination certificate before boarding and on arrival. You may choose to carry a hard copy of your certificate with you if you are unsure you will have access to the electronic version during your visit.
If you’re not fully vaccinated
Non-resident unvaccinated travellers will not be granted entry into Ghana. Ghanaians and Resident Foreigners who are partially vaccinated or unvaccinated are exempted from requirement for full vaccinations before travelling to Ghana, and will be offered vaccination on arrival, failing which the passenger will undergo mandatory quarantine for 7 days. Either Moderna or Pfizer BioNTech will be offered to pregnant women. Unvaccinated and Resident Foreigners also need to follow the process below.
On 21 April 2021, the Government of Ghana introduced the mandatory digitisation of all COVID-19 tests for international air travel, with the implementation of the Trusted Travel Scheme. Those passengers travelling to Ghana who are required to test should:
Take a Polymerise Chain Reaction (PCR) COVID test with one of the certified list of providers within 72 hours of departure. Port Health staff will only check the type of test taken on arrival. You should not use the NHS testing service to get a test in order to facilitate your travel to another country
Create an account online with the same email address and mobile telephone number you give your PCR test provider. Log on and select check-in; select UK and Ghana as your departure and destination countries; select lab tests (TT); select the matching lab test from the drop down options; click save; provide your flight and passport details as requested; click save to generate a Travel Code (TC); your TC code is then generated for you to copy or download
If your provider is unable to upload your test certificate on your behalf you should enter your TT or BIOMARS code from your PCR certificate, or upload the certificate yourself. You can do that by selecting at any other lab instead of lab tests (TT)
It is also recommended that you travel with hard copy proof of this negative Polymerise Chain Reaction (PCR) COVID-19 test result
Your PanaBios account details will also allow you to log on to the UNDP endorsed Global Haven site to validate your PCR test for travel in the same way.
Unvaccinated travellers are also required to take a mandatory antigen fluorescent immunoassay test on arrival. The test will be conducted before baggage is collected at a cost of $150 per passenger. (ECOWAS citizens pay $50). Payment should be made online prior to boarding. Children under the age of five are exempt. Children aged 5 to 12 will be tested on arrival free of charge.
Test results are normally ready within one hour, depending how busy the airport is. The pre-departure area where test results are collected can also be busy. You can check your results online while you wait. Be prepared for additional time to move through and exit the airport.
All unvaccinated travellers arriving will be offered a COVID-19 vaccine provided by the Government of Ghana.
Quarantine requirements for those testing positive on arrival
All arriving passengers should be prepared to comply with Ghana’s COVID-19 Health Protocols.
Those that test positive for COVID-19 on arrival will be assessed by the Port Health Unit for either quarantine in a Government Health facility or isolation centre. This will be at a cost to passengers. Quarantine and/or medical costs can be expensive so it is important that all passengers arrive with adequate access to financial resources. The isolation will be for a period of 7 days. Passports of those who test positive are likely to be retained by Ghana Immigration Services for the duration of isolation. The quarantine process is managed by Ghana Health Service.
The Government of Ghana also advise that all arrivals should have valid insurance. It is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCDO’s guidance on foreign travel insurance.
Children and young people
Children under the age of 5 are exempt from needing a pre-departure test and are also not required to take the mandatory COVID-19 Antigen fluorescent immunoassay test on arrival. Children aged 5 to 12 will be tested on arrival, free of charge.
If you’re transiting through Ghana
Transit passengers, except where they will remain in the airport throughout or those who were diverted to Accra for an emergency, will also be subject to mandatory COVID-19 protocols as outlined above.
Exemptions
Pre Arrival Test Exemption
The only exemption to the need to provide a pre arrival test is if you are returning to Ghana within one week of leaving, though you also need to remember to comply with the testing requirements of the country you are visiting. In the case of the UK, if flying direct on British Airways, you currently do not require a test in these circumstances.
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
Check with your travel provider to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Passport validity
Your passport should be valid for a minimum period of 6 months from the date of entry into Ghana.
Visas
You need a visa to enter Ghana. Ghana’s UK visa service is operating. Visit the Ghana High Commission website to stay up to date and to make an online application.
Ghana hasn’t granted any visa exemptions or extensions for visitors during the pandemic so all British nationals will need to visit the Ghana Immigration Service (GIS) office in person to extend their visas. It isn’t possible to call about an individual case or to book an appointment in advance. Office opening hours are 8 am to 5 pm. The GIS office is off Ako Adjei overpass on Independence Avenue in Accra.
Dual nationality
Ghana recognises dual nationality. To avoid visa fees, Ghanaian-British dual nationals should register with the Interior Ministry in Ghana and get a Dual Nationality card. Production of this card at point of entry into Ghana will indicate that a visa is not required.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are not valid for entry or transit through Ghana. However, ETDs are accepted for exit from Ghana. To leave Ghana on an ETD, you will need to visit the Ghana Immigration Service (GIS) to complete the exit formalities. GIS is located on John Kasavubu Road, Independence Avenue, Accra; Tel: +233 302 224445/221667 or visit the GIS website.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
You will be expected to present a yellow fever certificate on arrival in and departure from Ghana.
Volunteering
If you are travelling to work in a volunteer programme or for work experience you should be fully aware of the terms and conditions of your stay and be sure that you will be working for a reputable organisation before you commit yourself to travel. You should read further information on how to stay safe and healthy overseas when volunteering.
Residents
If you live in Ghana you should register with the National Identification Authority (NIA) of Ghana and get a non-citizen Ghana card. This applies to:
foreign nationals permanently resident in the country
foreign nationals resident in the country for at least 90 days in any calendar year
foreign nationals aged 6 years and above
A non-citizen Ghana card is required to apply for a residence permit, for admission into educational institutions in Ghana, for all financial transactions including opening a bank account, payment of taxes, registration of sim cards, and applications for public or government services, facilities, approvals and permissions. You can complete this registration process at any one of the following places:
National Identification Authority
Tetteh Quarshie
Near Gulf House
Accra
Telephone: +233 (0) 302218080
Ghana Immigration Service
(off Ako Adjei Overpass)
Independence Avenue
Accra
Telephone: +233 (0) 302258250
VFS Global
9 Kakramada Road
Cantonments
Accra
Telephone: +233 (0) 302746212
Some branches of CAL bank can also provide this service. You should ask your local CAL bank branch if they’re able to help you. Failure to procure the non-citizen Ghana card constitutes a criminal breach of the law. For more information see the National Identification Authority website.
All residents of Ghana are also encouraged to sign up to the National Health Insurance scheme.
Returning to the UK
Check what you must do to return to the UK.
