Coronavirus (COVID-19)
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Ghana on the TravelHealthPro website.
See the healthcare information in the Coronavirus section for information on what to do if you think you have coronavirus while in Ghana.
At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. The TravelHealthPro website indicates a high risk of malaria throughout Ghana, including in Accra.
Cases of Monkey pox have been reported in Ghana with majority of cases concentrated in the Greater Accra region. Measures to prevent further spread, including contact tracing and quarantine, are ongoing. Ghana is implementing 21 days quarantine for all contacts and cases. Ghana Health Services has advised the public to be on the alert and report signs of any of the symptoms to the nearest health facility. More information about Monkey Pox is available from the World Health Organisation. Further guidance can be found on the NaTHNaC website.
On 17 July the World Health Organisation confirmed two cases of Marburg Virus Disease (MVD) in the Ashanti Region of Ghana. Measures to prevent further spread, including contact tracing and quarantine where appropriate, are ongoing. Contacts of cases undergo a 42 days follow up process, which includes 21 days quarantine. Ghana Health Services has advised the public to be on the alert and report signs of any of the symptoms to the nearest health facility. See Ghana Health Service for more information.  More inofrmation about Marburg virus is available from the World Health Organisation. Further guidance can be found on the NaTHNaC website.
There have been reported cases of vaccine derived polio.  Polio vaccination campaign directed at children under five years is underway in affected regions of the country.  For more information and advice, visit NaTHNaC.
West Gonja, North Gonja, the Savannah region and the northwest, including Mole national park, remain at high risk from yellow fever infection following an outbreak in late 2021. Keep checking the NaTHNaC country-specific health advice for the latest information and advice.
An outbreak of H3N2v, a strain of influenza also known as Hanz virus, was detected in May 2022. The Ghana Health Service has asked people to be on high alert and report symptoms of the virus.
Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations is available on the NHS website. A travel health checklist is available on the ABTA website. You may also wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
Medical facilities are poor outside towns. For serious medical treatment, medical evacuation will be necessary. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation.
COVID-19 treatment centres including for severe COVID-19 cases and diagnostic services are available across Ghana but are concentrated in the Greater Accra and Ashanti regions.
There are reports of isolated cases of cholera and meningitis in Ghana; cases may rise during the wet season. You should follow the advice of the National Travel Health Network and Centre.
