!
Warning
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to parts of Ghana.

This section has safety advice for regions of Ghana. It only covers regions where FCDO has specific advice.
You should also read FCDO’s overall travel advice and safety and security advice.
Civil unrest in specific local regions of Ghana can build up at short notice and may become violent, sometimes involving weapons. Avoid large crowds and political protests. Take local advice if you’re in an area with heightened political tension. Local police may impose curfews to contain the situation. Curfews usually run from 7pm to 5am but times can vary. The authorities may put out a press release which is usually posted on the Ministry of the Interior’s website.
Bawku Municipality
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to the Bawku Municipal area in the Upper East region of Ghana. This is due to the number of violent incidents. The Ghanaian military have deployed additional military to the region to strengthen security.
If you must travel to Bawku, you are strongly advised to contact the regional police headquarters in Bolgatanga town before travelling. Frequent curfews have been put in place in Bawku, with requirements and times changing. Security checks, including roadblocks, are often in effect and you should be prepared to show identification if asked. Be prepared for the security response to change without notice.
Since October there have been a number of attacks related to the conflict in Bawku on the Nasia -Walewale-Bolgatanga road (Northeast) and the Bolgatanga- Zebilla – Bawku – Pulmankom road (Upper East). Many people are arranging police escorts when travelling along these roads. British citizens should take this into consideration including any precautionary measures before deciding to travel along these roads.
Savannah Region
In August, tribal conflict broke out in the western part of Savannah Region, near the Cote d’Ivoire and Burkina Faso borders. This has resulted in a number of deaths and displacement of communities. Visitors travelling in that region should keep informed about the situation, seek local advice and take precautions.
