Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

On 21 March the Government of Ghana announced the closure of the country’s borders, including the suspension of international flights and the closure of all land borders, effective from 12.01am GMT 23 March until further notice. There are currently no commercial options available to leave Ghana.
UK special flights
A number of special flights from Accra to London have been organised for British tourists, British short-term visitors and their direct dependants to return to the UK. These flights are not open to British nationals who are not normally resident in the UK.
The eligibility criteria for the flights is outlined on the online booking portal before a ticket can be purchased. Eligibility checks are conducted both at the booking stage and at the airport. Please do not attempt to book a ticket unless you meet the eligibility criteria.
Future options
The UK government is working closely with airlines, the Ghanaian authorities and other governments to make sure options are available for you to return to the UK as soon as possible.
This travel advice, and Twitter and Facebook will be updated when further departure options become available.
Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British High Commission on Twitter and Facebook.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Travel to Accra airport
The government of Ghana has announced a restriction of movement in Greater Accra and Greater Kumasi effective from 1am GMT Monday 30 March. Inter-city travel will be severely restricted.
If you’re currently outside Accra and seeking to return to the UK, you should travel to Accra as soon as possible.
If you are travelling to Kotoka International Airport for a special flight to the UK, Ghana police will ask to see your ticket and passport in order to let you pass the checkpoints.
Arrival in the UK
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Help and support
Extremely vulnerable British nationals who are visiting Ghana should please call + 233 302 213 250. We are currently experiencing a high volume of calls and as a result our response may be slower than usual.
Further information
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
