!
Warning
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to parts of Ghana.

This guide also has safety advice for regions of Ghana.
Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.    
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Ghana
Terrorist attacks in Ghana cannot be ruled out. Attacks could be indiscriminate, including in places visited by foreign nationals, such as:
northern border areas
busy public locations across the country, such as:
beach resorts
hotels, cafes and restaurants
places of worship
Stay aware of your surroundings, keep up to date with local media reports, and follow the advice of local authorities.
Political situation
On 7 December Ghana’s Presidential and Parliamentary elections will take place. Some disruption may occur, including the early closure of shops and a reduction of public services. You should monitor local media and follow the advice of the local authorities. During previous elections international borders have been closed at short notice. Keep your travel documents up-to-date, including appropriate visas.
Demonstrations in the capital Accra are normally well policed and peaceful, but sometimes they occur at short notice and can cause disruption. Protests may result in restriction of movement. Follow local media for updates on planned routes.
Disputes can occur between local tribes. This can lead to inter-ethnic violence and civil unrest. Seek local advice and take precautions in areas where political tensions are heightened. If you encounter any type of demonstration or disturbance leave the area quickly and do not attempt to watch or photograph any demonstration or disturbance. See Regional risks.
Internet access
The Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) is aware of internet outages across Ghana. Services including airport, online payments and online booking may be affected. Voice calls and SMS are intermittently available.
Crime
Protecting yourself and your belongings
Cases of robbery, burglary and serious assault have become more common since 2021, and in some cases involve the use of weapons. Foreign nationals have been attacked and robbed at gunpoint. Street crime like pickpocketing and bag-snatching is on the increase in Accra. To reduce your personal risk:
avoid carrying large sums of money or valuables
use a hotel safe to store passport and valuables whenever possible
be alert when withdrawing cash from ATMs, and where possible go by pre-arranged transport
be particularly careful after nightfall and avoid walking alone
take care of your belongings when arriving at and leaving hotels
keep a copy of your passport’s photo page and your visa or entry stamp in a separate place
Safety at beaches
Theft is the main problem at beaches, but there have been isolated incidents of violent crime and sexual assault in areas popular with tourists. Do not visit beaches alone and take care on public beaches.
Safety at airports
There are reports of a small number of thefts of luggage and travel documents at Kotoka International Airport. Make sure your passport is always secure and do not leave your bags unattended. Be wary of offers of help except from uniformed porters or officials. All permanent staff at the airport wear an ID card showing their name and a photo. ID cards without a photo are not valid.
If you’re being collected at the airport, confirm the identity of your driver by asking for ID. British nationals have been robbed by impostors who have approached them around the main arrivals area pretending to be their driver.
Accommodation security
There have been cases of burglaries in areas used by the international community, including Airport Residential, Cantonments, Ridge and Kokrobite, with greater frequency over the Christmas period. Make sure doors and windows are locked and keep all valuables in a secure lockbox. Set the burglar alarm if your accommodation has one.
Vehicle crime 
Attacks on vehicles are increasing, sometimes involving the use of weapons. A British national died in one such attack in August 2021. Take particular care when your car or taxi is stationary in a busy area. Keep windows up and doors locked.
There have been isolated incidents of crime taking place in all types of taxis, including licensed taxis, minibuses (‘tro tros’) and app-based taxi services. Use licensed taxis and check driver ID and the vehicle’s condition before you travel. Some hotels will book transport to pick you up on arrival. Avoid travelling alone in taxis after dark.
Local police have highlighted the risk to vehicles on specific roads in Accra:
Graphic Road
George Walker Bush Highway
Accra Mall Roundabout
Awudome Cemetery Road
Pokuase-Amasaman Road
Teshie-Nungua Road
Labadi beach area
GIMPA road and surrounding areas
Kokrobite beach area
For longer trips outside major cities:
travel during daylight hours
travel in a convoy of at least 2 vehicles
get advice from local police
do not stop your vehicle if people at the roadside try to flag you down
Criminal kidnap
There have been reports in the media of criminally motivated kidnapping in Accra, Takoradi and Kumasi, including the targeting of foreign nationals. Kidnaps can be for financial or political gain. If you’re kidnapped, the reason for your presence in Ghana is unlikely to serve as a protection or secure your safe release.
The long-standing policy of the British government is not to make substantive concessions to hostage takers. The British government considers that paying ransoms and releasing prisoners increases the risk of further hostage-taking.   
Scams
Scam artists target foreign visitors and residents. The scams come in many forms – romance and friendship, business ventures, work and employment opportunities – and can cause great financial loss. Warn your friends and family to be sceptical if they’re asked to transfer funds to you in Ghana. Tell them to contact you to check that you’ve made this request. 
Bank card fraud
Keep your card in sight when paying bills and look closely when you use an ATM in case a skimming device has been attached to it.
Laws and cultural differences
Ghana is a conservative and deeply religious country. Although attitudes are largely modern and progressive, you should show respect for traditional values and morals. 
Dress code
Dress modestly in public. Shorts and t-shirts are acceptable for both males and females, but it is best not to wear anything too revealing.
Wearing military clothing including camouflage is illegal.
Personal ID
It is advisable to carry ID. A copy of your passport’s photo page is acceptable. Keep the original in a safe place such as a hotel safe.
Illegal drugs and prison sentences
Do not get involved with drugs of any kind. Penalties for drug-related offences are severe. Even possession of small amounts of marijuana can lead to a prison sentence of more than 5 years, usually after a long and expensive legal process. Bail is not normally granted.
Class A drugs like cocaine are likely to be laced with other substances. Foreign visitors, including British people, have died after taking these drugs.
Using cameras in secure areas
Photography near sensitive sites like military installations or the airport is illegal. Ask permission if you want to take a photograph of a building where there are guards on duty. Beware of self-appointed officials trying to charge fees to let you take pictures of well-known sites of interest.
LGBT+ travellers
Some same-sex sexual acts could lead to a prison sentence of between 3 and 25 years. Although there are no records of this being enforced, there were arrests at a gathering of the LGBT+ community in 2021. Ghanaian society is intolerant of people of the same sex showing affection in public. Many Ghanaians do not accept that such relationships exist. 
The Human Sexual Rights and Family Values Bill is not law, but its passage through Ghana’s Parliament could increase the risk of violence and other threats (such as blackmail and intimidation) to the LGBT+ community and their allies. Rhetoric by some politicians, religious leaders, and local media can incite violence and psychological abuse of the LGBT+ community. FCDO are aware of reported attacks against LGBT+ individuals.
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Family law in Ghana
Ghanaian family law is very different from UK law, particularly when child custody becomes an issue. Ghana is not a signatory to the Hague Convention. This means:
the custody process might not be as straightforward as in cases where both countries are signatories
you might need to initiate legal proceedings in Ghana for custody or to have your child returned to the UK
Money
While ATMs are common in large towns, they may not be available in rural areas. Many hotels, guesthouses and shops accept credit cards except for Mastercard, which is not widely accepted. Check ahead that you can make payment, and have back-up funds.
Contact your card issuer before you travel in case they put a block on your account.
Outdoor activities and adventure tourism
Swimming safety
Swimming is dangerous on the beaches along the southern coast of Ghana due to rip tides and undertows. There are occasional reports of deaths of both adults and children.
See water safety on holiday from the Royal Life Saving Society. 
Transport risks
Road travel
You can drive in Ghana using the 1949 version of the international driving permit (IDP) or a Ghanaian driving licence. Carry your driving documents with you. 
Driving standards
Roads can be in a poor condition, particularly in rural areas. Grass or leaves strewn in the road often mean there is an accident or other hazard ahead.
Street lighting is poor or non-existent. Avoid travelling by road outside the main towns after dark, when the risk of serious road accidents is much greater, and there is a heightened risk of attacks on vehicles (see the crime section). If you choose to drive at night be aware of impromptu police checkpoints. Do not give cash to the police as this can be perceived as a bribe.
Safety standards of taxi services in Ghana are low. Driver training and vehicle standards will vary from providers in the UK. Drivers of ‘tro-tros’ and popular app-based taxi services are not centrally licensed. There is no responsible body that is accountable for your safety.
Outside major towns and cities it’s safer to use pre-booked vehicles from reputable taxi companies. 
Extreme weather and natural disasters
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards.
Flooding
Flooding is common in the Upper West, North East, Northern and Savannah regions during the rainy season, from March to November. Monitor local weather reports and expect difficulties when travelling to affected areas.
Earthquakes
Earthquakes and tremors are a risk in Ghana. The US Federal Emergency Management Agency website has advice about what to do before, during and after an earthquake.
