This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Ghana as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Ghana to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Ghana
The Government of Ghana has set out guidance to curb the spread of coronavirus. Schools, universities and social venues (for example, restaurants) are closed and large public gatherings of over 25 people (eg concerts, religious ceremonies, sporting events) are prohibited. People are strongly advised to wash their hands, use hand sanitiser and avoid shaking-hands with one another. People are advised to adhere to strict social distancing.
On 20 April, the Government of Ghana lifted the movement restrictions in Greater Accra and Greater Kumasi. It is now mandatory for the general public to wear face masks in the Greater Accra Region and in Cape Coast Metropolis. Notices of ‘no mask, no entry’ will be displayed at vantage points including offices, shops, markets, malls, banks and pharmacies.
Domestic flights are permitted to fly – contact your local airline for details. International flights remain suspended. See the Ministry of Information website for full details on the restriction of movement, including a list of affected areas.
Health
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Ghana.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Ghana, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
The Government of Ghana has also published 4 numbers for anyone feeling unwell:
(+233) 055 2222 004
(+233) 055 2222 005
(+233) 050 9497700
(+233) 055 8439 868
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
