Travel to Ghana is subject to entry restrictions
Ghana’s visa service is suspended
Ghana hasn’t granted any visa exemptions or extensions for visitors during the pandemic. You will need to visit the Ghana Immigration Service (GIS) office in person to extend your visa
See Entry requirements for more information before you plan to travel.
Preparing for your return journey to the UK
If you’re returning to the UK from overseas, you will need to:
provide your journey and contact details before you travel
check if you need to self-isolate on your return
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
If you’re planning travel to Ghana, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCO’s guidance on foreign travel insurance.
On 21 March, the Government of Ghana announced the closure of the country’s borders, including the suspension of international flights as well as the closure of all land and sea borders until further notice.
On 30 August, the Government of Ghana announced that Kotoka International Airport in Accra will re-open on 1 September. Airport protocols to screen passengers on arrival are being finalised and may be subject to change (see Entry Requirements). Land and sea borders remain closed.
Since the lifting of movement restrictions in April, the wearing of face masks in public places, including when leaving or returning to your place of residence, is now mandatory. The Ghana Police Service have been issued with an extensive list of places they can effect arrest that includes outdoor spaces such as car parks, markets and the street. See Coronavirus
We have temporarily reduced the number of UK staff in Ghana. The High Commission continues to carry out essential work including providing 24/7 consular assistance and support to British people in Ghana
Around 90,000 British nationals visit Ghana every year. While most visits are trouble-free, crime does occur. In recent years, reported crime has increased, particularly over the Christmas period. Criminal activity ranging from petty street crime, to violent crime can occur at any time. Take sensible precautions. Be particularly vigilant in public areas, and take care when travelling by road. See Crime
It’s mandatory for all foreign nationals resident in Ghana to register with the National Identification Authority (NIA) of Ghana and get a non-citizen Ghana card. See Local laws and customs
Localised outbreaks of civil unrest can occur at short notice, and can become violent (sometimes involving weapons). If you’re in these areas, you should remain vigilant, exercise caution and follow the advice of local authorities. If this does happen, local police may impose curfews to contain the situation. See Local travel
Terrorists are likely to try to carry out attacks in Ghana. Attacks could be indiscriminate, including in places visited by foreigners. See Terrorism
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.
The Overseas Business Risk service offers information and advice for British companies operating overseas on how to manage political, economic, and business security-related risks.
