Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for DRC on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
Commercial flights to and from DRC are in operation but last minute delays and / or cancellations are possible. Check with your travel company for the latest information.
DRC’s neighbouring countries may have border restrictions in place. If you are planning travel in the region, you should check the travel advice for Republic of Congo, Central African Republic, South Sudan, Rwanda, Burundi, Tanzania, Zambia and Angola.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in DRC.
Returning to the UK
Travelling from and returning to the UK
Check what you must do to travel abroad and return to England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
If you plan to pass through another country to return to the UK, check the travel advice for the country you’re transiting. If you will pass through a red list country, book your hotel quarantine package before travelling to the UK.
Check what you must do to travel abroad and return to England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements. You should register with the National Institute of Biomedical Research (INRB) to get a test. See Healthcare in DRC for further information.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19 you will be contacted by the authorities and will be required to self-isolate for 10 days.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in DRC
Travellers moving from one province to another must present a negative coronavirus test result. The test result date must fall within 3 days before the date you intend to leave the province.
Restrictions have been placed on the number of people per vehicle for public transport. Wearing of facemasks is mandatory in public and private transport. The police will issues fines of 5000 Congolese Frances ($3) if masks are not worn.
Local COVID-19 measures have been announced and altered at little notice in areas outside of Kinshasa. You should monitor local media for the latest developments
Accommodation
Hotels remain open. You should keep up to date with information from your tour operator.
Public places and services
A curfew is in place between 11pm and 4am. You should not be outside without justifiable reason (eg a medical emergency during these hours).
Wearing of facemasks is mandatory for anyone in public areas. This includes in public and private transport. The police will issue fines of 5000 Congolese Francs ($3) if masks are not worn.
Public health measures can change at short notice and you should monitor local media for the latest developments.
Healthcare in DRC
For contact details of English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Coronavirus testing is available at the following main towns:
Kinshasa
Matadi
Lubumbashi
Goma
Kolwezi
Mbandaka
There are a variety of testing facilities and the price starts from $45 USD.
If you think you have coronavirus symptoms, you should call DRC government healthcare services on 101, 109, 110.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in DRC.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in DRC
This page will be updated as information is available about how you can get a vaccination in the Democratic Republic of Congo. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in the Democratic Republic of Congo, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British Embassy Twitter and Facebook.
