!
Warning
FCDO advises against all travel to parts of Democratic Republic of the Congo.

The Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) cannot provide tailored advice for individual trips. Read this travel advice and carry out your own research before deciding whether to travel.
Emergency services in DRC  
There is no general emergency medical number in Kinshasa or elsewhere in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC).
Some major cities have emergency services, but their level of assistance is limited.
If you have a medical emergency which requires an ambulance, contact a hospital to make this request. If you are in Kinshasa, you can contact the fire service on 118, and the police on 112.
Contact your travel provider and insurer
Contact your travel provider and your insurer if you are involved in a serious incident or emergency abroad. They will tell you if they can help and what you need to do.
Refunds and changes to travel
For refunds or changes to travel, contact your travel provider. You may also be able to make a claim through insurance. However, insurers usually require you to talk to your travel provider first.
Find out more about changing or cancelling travel plans, including:
where to get advice if you are in a dispute with a provider
how to access previous versions of travel advice to support a claim
Support from FCDO
FCDO has guidance on staying safe and what to do if you need help or support abroad, including:
finding English-speaking lawyers, funeral directors and translators and interpreters
dealing with a death in DRC
being arrested or imprisoned in DRC
getting help if you’re a victim of crime
what to do if you’re in hospital
if you’re affected by a crisis, such as a terrorist attack
Contacting FCDO
Follow and contact FCDO travel on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram. You can also sign up to get email notifications when this travel advice is updated.
You can also contact FCDO online.
Help abroad in an emergency
If you’re in DRC and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the British Embassy in Kinshasa.
Consular support is severely limited outside Kinshasa. You should not assume that the FCDO will be able to provide assistance to leave the country in the event of serious unrest or crisis.
It is illegal for a DRC citizen to be a dual national. DRC citizens who also have a foreign nationality risk arrest by the DRC authorities.     
FCDO in London
You can call FCDO in London if you need urgent help because something has happened to a friend or relative abroad.
Telephone: 020 7008 5000 (24 hours)
Find out about call charges
