At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist are available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Coronavirus
Cases of coronavirus (COVID-19) have been confirmed in DRC. The DRC authorities have introduced a number of measures to limit the spread of the virus.
As of Friday 20 March there will be a suspension of all flights from “at risk countries”, including transit countries. This may include flights from the UK.
All travellers entering the DRC are likely to be subject to screening, including temperature checks.
All travellers coming from countries designated as high-risk by the Government of DRC will be subject to 14 days mandatory self-quarantine. These measures are in place even for travellers showing no symptoms of coronavirus. Those presenting symptoms may be transferred to local health centres for further examination by health professionals. The countries currently designated as high-risk are China, France, Germany, Italy, Iran, South Korea and Iraq. The list of countries is subject to change at short notice.
Passengers travelling to DRC who transit at the airports of the above-mentioned countries and who do not present symptoms on arrival may not be subject to self-quarantine. Those who were in transit and who left the airport will may be subject to isolation self-quarantine on arrival in DRC.
You should comply with any additional screening measures put in place by the authorities. Keep up to date with information from your tour operator, transport or accommodation provider on the impact on any existing travel plans.
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
Ebola
On 17 July 2019, the World Health Organisation declared a Public Health Emergency of International Concern (PHEIC) following an outbreak of the Ebola virus in eastern DRC. Affected areas include the provinces of Ituri, North Kivu and South Kivu. If you are in these areas you should take precautions to minimise your risk of exposure. Further advice and latest updates are available on the World Health Organisation website.
Public Health England has updated its guidance for humanitarian or healthcare workers travelling to countries at risk of Ebola.
Public Health England’s Returning Workers Scheme (RWS) provides guidance for British Nationals who will be returning to the UK from areas affected by the outbreak. The RWS is for any business or organisation that has staff who travel to the UK from areas affected by Ebola. This includes humanitarian and healthcare organisations, as well as media and other organisations that are sending workers to situations where they might be directly exposed to Ebola.
Travel to an Ebola affected area may restrict your ability to obtain travel insurance. If you intend to travel to Ebola affected areas of DRC, you’re advised to speak to your travel insurance provider and discuss any exclusions that may arise.
Other health risks
There are outbreaks of cholera, yellow fever and measles in DRC. You should follow the advice of the National Travel Health Network and Centre. You should get vaccinated against yellow fever before entering DRC.
In the 2012 Report on the Global AIDS Epidemic the UNAIDS/WHO Working Group estimated that around 390,000 adults aged 15 or over were living with HIV; the prevalence percentage was estimated at around 1.1 of the adult population compared to the prevalence percentage in adults in the UK of around 0.25%. You should exercise normal precautions to avoid exposure to HIV and AIDS.
Plague is endemic in North Eastern Province Orientale.
Medical treatment
If you become ill during or immediately after travelling to the country, seek medical advice immediately. Medical care is extremely limited. The Centre Prive d’Urgence (CPU) clinic in Kinshasa is able to cope with basic health problems and to stabilise a patient after most serious accidents. Outside Kinshasa, western standard medical facilities are almost non-existent. Medical evacuation to South Africa (or elsewhere) is often necessary. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation. If you take medication regularly, bring in a properly-marked supply, sufficient for the time you will be in the DRC, with you.
