Volcanoes
The Nyiragongo volcano in Virunga National Park is active and has only limited access to tourists.
On 22 May, Mount Nyiragongo volcano, close to the city of Goma, and near the border with Rwanda, began erupting. Georisk Africa has noted the seismic activity is still worrying. You should follow the advice of the local authorities. The DRC authorities put an evacuation order in place for the following districts of Goma: Majengo, Bujovu, Virunga, Mapendo, Kayembe, Mabanga Nord, Mabanga South, Murara, Mikeno and Le Volcan, but have since announced a progressive return of displaced persons on 7 June. The Prime Minister announced this during a press conference (available in French only). Risks to safety and health remain so you should take appropriate precautions and remain vigilant as the situation could change with little warning. Goma International Airport has now reopened. Kavumu Airport in Bukavu has now reopened. If you’re travelling within DRC, you should check the Health section and follow health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
If you decide to cross into Rwanda from DRC, you will need a PCR test to leave DRC and then be required to take a PCR or rapid test on arrival in Rwanda. For more information on Rwanda’s entry requirements, see FCDO travel advice for Rwanda.
British nationals who are concerned should contact the British Embassy in Kinshasa online or by telephone on +243 81 556 6200. Given the rapidly changing situation in Goma, as of 26 May 2021 staff at the UK Government Office in Goma are being temporarily withdrawn. The British Embassy in Kinshasa will continue to carry out essential work including providing 24/7 consular assistance and support to British people in DRC.
The eruption of Mount Nyiragongo in 2002 resulted in significant destruction in Goma. Local authorities, the UN and local NGOs continue to monitor the volcano’s activity.
Earthquakes
Earthquakes occasionally occur. On 7 August 2015 an earthquake of magnitude 5.6 hit eastern DRC, resulting in a small number of reported deaths and injuries in the town of Bukavu. To learn more about what to do before, during and after an earthquake, see this advice from the US Federal Emergency Management Agency.
