!
Warning
FCDO advises against all travel to parts of Democratic Republic of the Congo.

This section has safety advice for regions of the Democratic Republic of Congo. It only covers regions where the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) has specific advice.
You should also read FCDO’s overall travel advice and safety and security advice.
Eastern DRC
FCDO advises against all travel to the provinces of:
Haut-Uélé and Ituri, including the entire DRC-South Sudan border
North Kivu, including all travel by air into and out of Goma airport excepting the city of Goma
South Kivu, except the city of Bukavu, where FCDO advises against all but essential travel
Maniema
Tanganyika
Haut Lomami
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to:
the city of Goma;
The security situation in eastern DRC remains unstable. Armed groups are active and intercommunal violence can affect the political, security and humanitarian situation. Large numbers of civilians remain displaced as a result of the conflict. Acts of violence, including killing, rape and looting continue against civilians. 
There are continued reports of towns in eastern DRC being attacked by or falling under temporary control of armed groups. There are continued reports of attacks and kidnappings, including against staff from NGOs and international organisations. Be prepared to leave at short notice via available routes. If you are in an area against FCDO advice, you should be vigilant at all times and keep your security situation under constant review.
Foreign nationals travelling in eastern DRC have been left vulnerable, without escorted transport. The risk of kidnap or injury remains high.
On 22 February 2021, there was a fatal attack by an armed group on a UN World Food Programme convoy, approximately 26km north east of Goma on the RN2 road. The attack killed 3 people, including the Italian Ambassador to DRC.
While British government staff do visit areas of eastern DRC, the British Embassy’s ability to offer support is severely limited.
Peacekeeping forces
A United Nations peacekeeping presence is deployed in eastern DRC. The Congolese army is carrying out operations against foreign and domestic armed groups operating in North and South Kivu and Ituri provinces. Foreign, regional forces are also present in eastern DRC.
Goma and Bukavu
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to Goma in North Kivu and Bukavu in South Kivu.
In 2023, the armed group M23 advanced towards Goma and remains active in the surrounding areas. Fighting near Sake, to the west of Goma, has intensified in 2024. Advances towards Goma could occur with little warning and existing routes out of Goma, including the airport and border, could close at short notice. FCDO staff may leave the area temporarily at short notice.
On 17 February a drone reportedly targeted military aircraft at Goma airport. Flights have not been disrupted but due to the continuation of the armed conflict near and around Goma, and the risks to aircraft, FCDO advises against all travel into or out of Goma airport by air.
A ‘state of siege’ is in place in the provinces of Ituri and North Kivu. Military administrations with extended security powers have replaced the civilian administrations. On 20 February, the Governor of North Kivu banned vehicles from driving in the province with tinted windows (this includes the city of Goma).
The situation in Goma remains uncertain, unstable and can change quickly. British nationals should be prepared to leave at short notice and to have adequate supplies of food, water, medicine etc in case of the need to lock down. Local authorities are on a heightened state of alert and there is an increased presence of DRC military, UN peacekeepers and regional forces in the city.
There is an ongoing risk of protests in the east, particularly in Goma, North Kivu province. These could be directed at foreign nationals.  
The border crossings between Rwanda and the DRC at Gisenyi/Goma and Cyangugu/Bukavu are liable to short notice closure. Consider how you would leave Goma and Bukavu if you need to. Do not rely on only one form of transport.
Territory in Mai-Ndombe Province
FCDO advises against all travel to the Kwamouth territory of Mai-Ndombe Province. This is between, and including, the towns of Kwamouth, Bandundu and the southern border of Mai-Ndombe Province.
There is ongoing intercommunal violence between ethnic groups over land. The government has deployed a military force to the area. We are not aware of any direct threat against the international community or British nationals. Be aware of the increased violence and potential threat.
Areas in Kinshasa Province
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to the districts of N’djili and Kimbanseke in Kinshasa city, south of the main access road to N’djili airport, in Nsele commune, due to the risk of crime.
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to the N1 road in Kinshasa Province, between and including Menkao to the west, Kenge to the east, the border of Mai-Ndombe province to the north, and 10km to the south. There has been fighting between local militia and Congolese Armed Forces on this section of the N1 road. There are checkpoints on the road and reports of access being blocked. The authorities advise to travel during daylight hours.    
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to the district of Kasa Vubu in Kinshasa City, bordered by the N1 Triumphal Road (Stadium), Barumbu District, Lingwala District and the south of the botanical garden, due to the risk of violent crime.
Kasaï Oriental, Kasaï, Kasaï Central
FCDO advises against all travel to the province of Kasaï Oriental.
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to the provinces of Kasaï and Kasaï Central.  
