Coronavirus guidance is being updated.
Read the Prime Minister’s address for the latest information.

There are currently extremely limited commercial options available to return to the UK from DRC. Current Government of DRC restrictions mean that no scheduled passenger flights are permitted to enter or leave DRC, with the exception of specially arranged flights.
UK special flight
The UK will operate a special flight from N’Djili Airport in Kinshasa on Thursday 14 May for British tourists, short term visitors and their direct dependants to return to the UK.
The cost of the flight is £600 per person. There is no fee for infants.
To be eligible to take this flight, you must be normally resident in the UK. Your eligibility will be checked before your tickets are issued.
Vulnerable non-British UK Residents with Indefinite Leave to Remain, and other foreign nationals, may be accommodated if there is sufficient capacity.
How to register
If you wish to travel, you should register as soon as possible on the CTM website. This will be the only option to return to the UK for the foreseeable future.
To book flights, you will need:
Full passport and contact details for each traveller you are registering
Your UK home address and postcode
Your means of payment, such as credit or debit card details
Tickets will not be on sale at the airport. Do not travel to the airport without a confirmed ticket.
Help with registration
If you have difficulty booking online, please contact CTM using their text and call-back service (send a text message containing ONLY your full name to +44(0)753 745 3854 and CTM will contact you). Some international charges may apply.
Those with Indefinite Leave to Remain (ILR) in the UK cannot book through the normal CTM process and need to contact CTM directly. Please send an SMS text message containing ONLY your full name to +44(0)753 745 3854 and someone from CTM will contact you.
You may find it helpful to read our guide to eligibility and the booking process for special charter flights.
Travel to the airport
Passengers should make their way to the airport at the time advertised on their booking ticket. You should not travel to the airport unless you have a confirmed ticket.
All passengers will have their temperature checked on arrival at the airport and anyone displaying coronavirus (COVID-19) symptoms will not be allowed to travel. Please bring your own mask or face covering and gloves as you will not be allowed into the airport without them. Public Health England guidelines for flights will be enforced on the flights.
Your journey home
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Future travel options
The UK government is working closely with airlines, the DRC authorities and other government to make sure options are available for you to return to the UK as soon as possible.
If you wish to leave DRC, you should register your interest to leave by email to Kinshasa.Consular@fco.gov.uk.
This travel advice will be updated when departure options become available. Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British Embassy Twitter and Facebook.
If you cannot leave DRC
If you cannot leave DRC at this time, you should:
Follow the advice of local authorities, including local measures to help minimise your risk of exposure to coronavirus.
Find accommodation that’s suitable for your needs.
Keep in regular contact with families and friends at home, so they know you are safe and well.
See more information and advice about staying where you are if you cannot return to the UK.
Help and support
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact the British Embassy.This travel advice will be updated when departure options become available. Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British Embassy Twitter and Facebook.
Further information
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
