

Foreign nationals have been detained or had their passports seized by local authorities following commercial disputes. You should be cautious when dealing with commercial disputes and seek legal advice. Foreign nationals have also been detained or had passports seized as a result of immigration offences.
The Congolese authorities rarely meet their international obligations to notify Embassies when foreign nationals have been detained. Even if requested, adequate consular access isn’t always granted. You should therefore keep in close touch with family or friends and ask them to notify the British Embassy Kinshasa immediately in the event that you are arrested in DRC.
Local conditions outside Kinshasa and the provincial capitals can be difficult, there is widespread poverty, social exclusion and disease throughout many parts of the country. There is a risk of British nationals being robbed or attacked, if you travel outside of these areas do so in the company of experienced persons or organisations. There have been recent incidents (July 2023) of foreigners being targeted by local communities while wild camping without permission. Take care and be respectful of local customs and land rights. Transport and accommodation are extremely limited outside Kinshasa and the major towns, make travel arrangements in advance.
Protests and demonstrations
Public gatherings and demonstrations can occur with little or no notice and can quickly turn violent.
Protests have targeted UN and government vehicles and premises due to instances of anti-government and anti-UN sentiment.
DRC held Presidential, Parliamentary, provincial and some local elections on 20 December 2023. Polling is likely to continue for several days in parts of the country. There is an increased likelihood of protests and demonstrations nationwide but particularly in Kinshasa and other major population centres. Public demonstrations may occur with little notice and have the potential to quickly turn violent. Limit your movements as far as possible.
In the period which follows the elections, until the President’s inauguration scheduled for 20 January 2024, there is a higher risk of civil unrest and disruption to services including internet connectivity. These risks apply even in areas of the country in which elections are not able to take place.
We advise all UK nationals in DRC to remain vigilant, to avoid demonstrations, protests or disturbances and to register for travel advice updates and alerts.  If there are widespread disturbances or the security situation deteriorates, there may be limits to the assistance that the British Embassy Kinshasa can provide. Be prepared to shelter in place for several days, if the security situation requires it. This means having enough essential supplies, such as food, water and medicine, at the place where you are staying. Do not rely on the FCDO being able to evacuate you in an emergency.
There were calls for protests against the UN peacekeeping mission known as the United Nations Organization Stabilization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (MONUSCO) in Goma on 13 September. Similar calls cannot be ruled out. Remain vigilant and avoid demonstrations, protests or disturbances.
There is an ongoing risk of protests in the east, particularly around Goma, North Kivu province. These could be directed at foreigners. We advise all UK nationals in DRC to remain vigilant and to avoid demonstrations, protests or disturbances.
Protests may result in:
the closure of shops and public services
restrictions on movement
In the event of serious unrest:
commercial flights may be suspended
roads may be blocked
borders may be closed, making it difficult to leave the country
internet connections and mobile phone networks may have reduced services or be cut off.
Previous periods of unrest have seen an increased military and police presence in Kinshasa and other major cities. Police and military have used stop-and-search checkpoints in some areas, especially after dark.
You should remain vigilant and be aware of disruptions to journeys. If a demonstration or disturbance takes place, leave quickly and don’t attempt to watch or photograph it.
There are limits to the assistance the FCDO can provide in a crisis, depending on the security and transport situation. You shouldn’t assume the FCDO will be able to provide assistance to leave the country in the event of serious unrest.
You should:
follow local media for news of any planned protests
avoid travelling around Kinshasa and other large cities on and around days of planned protests including travel to and from N’Djili airport, where demonstrations may take place, large sporting or music events, universities, political party headquarters, the parliament and the offices of the electoral commission.
consider making contingency plans in the event of demonstrations, including keeping a stock of essential supplies and up-to-date travel documents and visas.
See how to prepare for a crisis overseas and information on how to contact the British Embassy.
Eastern DRC and border regions
The security situation in eastern DRC remains unstable. There are continued reports of several towns in eastern DRC being attacked by or falling under temporary control of armed groups, including some territories and villages within a 30km range north of Goma. Armed groups are present and intercommunal violence can affect the political, security and humanitarian situation. You should be prepared to leave at short notice via available routes. Travellers should regularly check government advice for updates.
Since November 2021 the armed group M23 have launched a series of military offensives in North Kivu province capturing the town of Kibumba (approximately 15km north of Goma) in November 2022. Advances towards Goma could occur with little warning and existing routes out of Goma, including the airport and border, could close at short notice. FCDO staff may leave the area temporarily at short notice. You should be prepared to leave at short notice via available routes. Travellers should regularly check UK Government advice for updates.
The situation in Goma remains uncertain, in November 2022 armed groups were reported to have advanced within 15km of the city. Local authorities are on a heightened state of alert, there is an increased presence of DRC military, UN peacekeepers and regional forces in the city, UK nationals should remain vigilant. We advise all citizens to consider alternative means of transport when exiting the city.
A “state of siege” is in place in the provinces of Ituri and North Kivu. Military administrations have replaced the civilian administrations during this period. The military administrations have extended security powers. You should be vigilant about the situation.
If you’re in Haut-Uele, Haut Lomami, Ituri, North Kivu, South Kivu, Maniema, Tanganyika or within 50km of the border with the Central African Republic (CAR) and South Sudan against FCDO advice you should be vigilant at all times and keep your security situation under constant review.
There are reports of attacks and kidnappings, including against staff from NGOs and international organisations.
Troops from DRC and other African countries are currently present in eastern DRC. This is in addition to the UN MONUSCO peacekeeping force.
You should be especially vigilant, consider travelling in convoy on trips outside Goma and Bukavu and avoid making any journeys that would involve travel after dark. Tourists in eastern DRC have been known to be left very vulnerable as a result of trying to travel independently without escorted transport, and the risk of kidnap or injury as a result of armed or criminal activity remains high.
While British government staff do visit areas of eastern DRC, they are not always in the area, and as with anywhere outside of Kinshasa the British Embassy’s ability to offer consular assistance is severely limited.
Crime
There is a small but increasing threat of criminal “express” kidnap in DRC. There have been incidents (February, March and April 2023) of foreigners being targeted by individuals impersonating police in the Limete area of Kinshasa. Kidnaps are generally for financial gain or motivated by criminality.
Foreigners can be perceived as being wealthier than locals and may be at particular risk of kidnap for financial gain.
Be alert to the risk of street crime and armed robbery at all times. Foreigners are at particular risk of street robbery in Kinshasa and Lubumbashi, especially near hotels and supermarkets in the centre of town. Robberies by gangs of street children are increasingly common and can be aggressive.
Robberies by people posing as taxi drivers or taxi customers are common in Kinshasa, and are often accompanied by a threat of violence. You should avoid using any taxis in DRC. If you must take a taxi, use a privately booked one. Don’t hail taxis on the street.
Car jackings are rare but can occur.
There have been reports of an increase in criminal activity in North and South Kivu specifically targeting the international community. There have been many reports of robberies and banditry in Goma especially after dark.
Don’t walk in the streets alone at any time, especially at night. Avoid displaying valuables and cash. Use a hotel safe if possible and keep copies of documents, including your passport separately.
Some gangs use girls to lure people into traps; others promise cut-price gold and diamonds, or pose as police or security forces.
There remains a risk of arbitrary arrests of foreigners by security authorities who demand payment for release.
Inter-communal violence
Inter-communal violence between ethnic groups over land in Kwamouth territory of Mai-Ndombe province has been ongoing since August 2022. There have been a high number of casualties (300+) including women and children. The government has responded with a military deployment to the area. We are not aware of any direct threat against the international community or British Nationals, but visitors should be aware of the increased violence and potential threat to all those not of the groups’ ethnicity.
Local Travel
The border crossings between Rwanda and the DRC at Gisenyi/Goma and Cyangugu/Bukavu are liable to short notice closure.
If you’re crossing regularly between Rwanda and DRC you may encounter immigration difficulties if you haven’t regularised your residency status.
DRC’s borders with all of its neighbours can be subject to closure at short notice, you should check travel advice for: Angola, Burundi, Central African Republic, Republic of Congo, Rwanda, South Sudan, Tanzania, Uganda and Zambia.
You should be prepared to move at short notice or lock down for a period of time. The local authorities may impose curfews without warning. You should follow the advice of the local authorities at all times. In the event of escalating tensions and civil unrest, commercial flights may be suspended and borders closed. Keep your travel documents up to date so you can avoid facing difficulties should you need to leave in an emergency.
Road travel
You will need to have a 1968 International Driving Permit (IDP) to drive in the DRC. 1949 IDPs previously issued by the UK may no longer be accepted in the DRC. You can only get IDPs over the counter from 2,500 UK Post Offices. You will not be able to buy an IDP outside the UK, so get one before you travel.
Car hire is possible in Kinshasa although self-drive options are limited. Most car hire companies will only rent a car with a driver. Public transport such as taxis are often not well maintained.
Driving conditions and standards are well below those in the UK and other European countries. Traffic accidents are common. Roads in Kinshasa are poorly maintained. Outside Kinshasa and other main cities, most roads are barely drivable even with a 4x4, especially during the rainy season (September to May). Consider the technical capability of your vehicle and be confident in your ability to safely operate it. Outside Kinshasa and the main cities, travel after dark brings increased risk.
Be aware of vehicle theft and car-jacking. Lock vehicle doors and keep windows closed when driving and watch out for armed gangs who may target your car. Don’t drive off the main routes or park in unsupervised areas.
Security forces operate roadblocks, particularly after dark. If you are asked to produce documents for inspection at a check point, remain in your vehicle and show them through closed windows.
Rail travel
The railways are in a dilapidated state and you should be aware of the increased risk of travel by train. In late 2015 a refurbished route opened between Kinshasa and Matadi, although services are infrequent and unreliable.
Air travel
The UK Air Safety List (ASL) lists all known airlines in DRC that do not meet international safety standards and are banned from operating commercial air services to, from, and within the UK. Check the UK Air Safety List when considering which airlines to fly with. The list is maintained by the Department for Transport, based on advice from the UK Civil Aviation Authority.
UK government staff working in DRC are authorised to use aircraft operated by the Mission Aviation Fellowship for internal flights on a case by case basis.
River travel
The ferry service between Kinshasa and Brazzaville stops running in the late afternoon, and there is no service on Sundays.
Boats and ferries serving the rivers and lakes are poorly maintained and often overloaded. As a result of the low safety standards, high river traffic levels, strong currents, shifting sandbanks and poor maintenance there have been many accidents.
Political situation
Political gatherings and demonstrations can be called with little or no notice and can quickly turn violent in DRC. Presidential, parliamentary and provincial elections are scheduled for 20 December 2023 and could lead to heightened tensions.
A United Nations peacekeeping presence is deployed in eastern DRC. The Congolese army is carrying out operations against foreign and domestic armed groups operating in North and South Kivu and Ituri provinces. Foreign, regional forces are also present in eastern DRC. Large numbers of civilians remain displaced as a result of the conflict. Acts of violence, including killing, rape and looting continue against the civilian population.
