This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in DRC as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in DRC to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in DRC
as of 6 April, DRC imposed a lockdown in the Gombe district in Kinshasa. Lockdown measures are under regular review. You should monitor local media for the latest developments
wearing face masks is mandatory across Kinshasa for anyone in public areas. The police will issue fines of 5000 Congolese Franc ($3) if masks are not worn
gatherings of more than 20 people in public places, including religious ceremonies and sporting activities, are banned
social enterprises such as bars and night clubs are closed. Restrictions have been placed on the number of people per vehicle for public transport. Public health measures can change at short notice and you should monitor local media for the latest developments
Public measures in other areas of DRC
wearing facemasks is mandatory in South Kivu
self-isolation for people at risk (over 60 or with existing health issues) is mandatory in South Kivu
Public health measures can change at short notice and you should monitor local media for the latest developments.
You should comply with any additional measures put in place by the authorities. Keep up to date with information from your tour operator, transport or accommodation provider on the impact on any existing travel plans.
Health
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in DRC
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in DRC, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
