Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Lesotho on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International Travel
Lesotho is at “Blue Stage” COVID-19 restrictions.
International travellers must show a valid PCR test taken no more than 72 hours before arrival at the border.
The Government of Lesotho has stated that from 1 August digitalised AU Trusted Travel certificates will be required for entry and exit.
A PCR test is also required to depart from Lesotho and enter South Africa through the land borders. See our Travel Advice for South Africa for further information.
Lesotho residents in permitted categories may re-enter Lesotho using the same PCR test that they presented on exit for a period of 14 days from the test date.
The hours of operation at border posts are restricted in line with national curfews in Lesotho and South Africa.
The latest published information states the following border gates area open. But you are advised to check before travel since the situation changes frequently. Further information is available by calling +266 5221 5555 or +266 2223 5555.
Maseru Bridge, 6am to 10pm
Van Rooyen’s Gate, 6am to 8pm
Qacha Bridge, 6am to 4pm
Caledonspoort, 6am to 10pm
Sani Top, 6am to 6pm
Maputsoe Bridge, 6am to 10pm
Limited passenger air services between Johannesburg and Moshoeshoe International Airport have restarted. The COVID-19 PCR test requirements and restrictions on those permitted entry are the same as for the land borders.
Other countries may restrict movement or bring in new quarantine rules with little warning. You should check the travel advice for the countries on your route for the latest information.
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Lesotho.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Lesotho.
Returning to the UK
Travelling from and returning to the UK
Check what you must do to travel abroad and return to England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
If you plan to pass through another country to return to the UK, check the travel advice for the country you’re transiting. If you will pass through a red list country, book your hotel quarantine package before travelling to the UK.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Lesotho
COVID-19 regulations in Lesotho are managed by Lesotho’s National COVID-19 Secretariat (NACOSEC). Travellers should be aware that the information on the NACOSEC website is not always up to date. The NACOSEC Twitter feed and Facebook page generally have more current information.
Lesotho is under “Blue Level” restrictions. A curfew is in place from 12pm to 4am.
There are no longer any restrictions in place on the numbers permitted to be carried in taxis and public transport. Masks must be worn at all times. Eating in the vehicle is prohibited.
Anyone leaving their place of residence must wear a face covering. This includes while walking in the street, and in shops and public offices.
Accommodation
Hotels are permitted to open at full occupancy. Conferences and workshops are permitted at 50% of the conference facility. Not all hotels have yet re-opened.
Public places and services
Lesotho is currently under “Blue Level” COVID-19 restrictions.
An overnight curfew remains in place from 12pm to 4am.
Supermarkets, grocery shops, hardware stores, cafes and clothing stores are permitted to operate normally between 8am and 8pm but must observe COVID-19 Protocols on sanitisation and social distancing. Hair salons may operate an appointment-only service between 8am and 8pm. Off licenses can operate between 8am and 10pm.
All over the counter essential service providers are permitted to operate with 50% maximum staff capacity. Digital payment methods are encouraged. Fuel stations may operate 24 hours.
Schools and colleges are permitted to operate on a rotational basis.
Textile and manufacturing industries can operate at 100 capacity for both a day and night shift. Other businesses, public and private institutions and NGOs may operate between 8am and 4pm with 50% of staff on rotation.
Hotels may open at 100% capacity. Conferences and workshops can be held but numbers are restricted to 50% of the conference venue capacity.
Restaurants and fast food outlets may operate with 50% seated capacity between 6am and 10pm. COVID-19 protocols must be observed (including sanitisation and social distancing). From 1 November a COVID-19 vaccination certificate will be required.
Social and family gatherings of up to 500 persons are permitted outside and up to 50% capacity of the venue inside. COVID-19 Protocols must be observed.
Church services are permitted indoors only and with numbers limited to 50% capacity of the church. The service should not last more than three hours and one hour must be allowed for disinfection between services. All people must wear masks all times, including when singing. Weddings are permitted with a maximum of 500 guests outside or 50 guests inside. Funerals are restricted to a maximum of 200 people outside and must be completed by 10am. Only immediate family members may view the deceased at the mortuary. Night vigils, alcohol and buffets are not permitted.
Gyms may operate outside with not more than 50 people and a maximum capacity of 30% inside with good ventilation and social distancing. Contact and non-contact sports are permitted. Spectators are permitted subject to limits on capacity. Registration and vaccine certificate is required for gyms and sports events.
Public parks and recreational areas are open. COVID-19 protocols including From 1 November a COVID-19 vaccination certificate will be required.
Indoor and outside entertainment events are permitted for a maximum of 50% capacity of the venue. Special regulations regarding security and registration apply. Nightclubs are allowed with 50% capacity and must close at 11pm. From 1 November a COVID-19 vaccination certificate will be required.
Political rallies by local branches are permitted with 50% capacity under specific conditions. Strikes, industrial action and demonstrations are not allowed.
Healthcare in Lesotho
Medical care in Lesotho is limited. Most expatriates use medical facilities in South Africa. Emergency access to these facilities may be delayed due to the requirements for COVID-19 testing.
For contact details for English speaking doctors, visit our list of healthcare providers.
If you think you have COVID-19 symptoms, you should call the Lesotho Government hotline on +266 58862893 or +266 80032020. The healthcare providers in the list above can also direct you to appropriate testing facilities.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Lesotho.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Lesotho
We will update this page when the Government of Lesotho announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Lesotho national vaccination programme started in March 2021 and is using the AstraZeneca, Janssen (Johnson and Johnson) and Sinopharm vaccines. The Government of Lesotho has stated that British nationals resident in Lesotho are eligible for vaccination, if they choose to join the programme. The Lesotho Ministry of Health is now offering vaccination to all adults (over the age of 18). Information about vaccination dates and eligibility are released by the Ministry of Health on local television and radio stations, NACOSEC Facebook page and twitter channels. You can also contact your local healthcare provider.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad. If you’re a British national living in Lesotho, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
