The information on this page covers the most common types of travel and reflects the UK government’s understanding of the rules currently in place. Unless otherwise stated, this information is for travellers using a full ‘British Citizen’ passport.
The authorities in the country or territory you’re travelling to are responsible for setting and enforcing the rules for entry. If you’re unclear about any aspect of the entry requirements, or you need further reassurance, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
You should also consider checking with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Entry rules in response to coronavirus (COVID-19)
Entry to Lesotho
Movement across the Lesotho border is currently restricted to people providing essential goods and services, business people, diplomats, commuters, students and teachers, pensioners collecting their pensions, and those travelling for funerals of parents, children, siblings and grandparents only. Travel for medical reasons and other special cases is also allowed with approval of the Ministry of Health.
A negative COVID-19 PCR test taken within 72 hours is required for entry. This should show:
the name of the traveller (which must correspond with their travel document)
a serial number which is not duplicated
clear and visible proof that the certificate was issued within 72 hours
the date on which the swab was taken and the date the results were provided to the traveller
the name of the testing laboratory approved by the Minister responsible for health
The Government of Lesotho has stated that from 1 August digitalised AU Trusted Travel certificates will be required for entry and exit.
Travellers departing from the UK should not use the NHS testing service to get a test in order to facilitate your travel to another country. You should arrange to take a private test.
Limited passenger air services between Johannesburg and Moshoeshoe International Airport have restarted. The the COVID-19 PCR test requirements are the same as for the land borders.
A PCR test is also required to depart from Lesotho and enter South Africa through the land borders. See our Travel Advice for South Africa for further information.
Lesotho residents may re-enter Lesotho using the same PCR test that they presented on exit for a period of 14 days from the test date.
The hours of operation at border posts are restricted in line with national curfews in Lesotho and South Africa. Some smaller border posts remain closed.
The latest published information states the following border gates area open. But you are advised to check before travel since the situation changes frequently. Further information is available by calling +266 5221 5555 or +266 2223 5555.
Maseru Bridge, 6am to 8.30pm
Van Rooyen’s Gate, 6am to 8pm
Qacha Bridge, 6am to 4pm
Caledonspoort, 7am to 7pm Monday to Friday ( 8am to 4pm Sat/Sun)
Sani Top, 6am to 6pm
Maputsoe Bridge, 6am to 7pm
Transiting via South Africa
All visitors to Lesotho must travel through, or transit via, South Africa.
See our Travel Advice for South Africa for further information.
Screening on arrival and departure
Everyone entering Lesotho will be screened for coronavirus.
You should comply with any additional screening measures.
Quarantine requirements
Travellers showing symptoms of coronavirus will be required to self-isolate at their permanent or temporary residence or may be placed in an isolation facility in a government hospital at their own expense.
Data collection
Travellers entering Lesotho may be required to provide details of where they will be staying to aid the Government’s efforts to tackle COVID-19.
If you need further information about entry requirements, contact the local immigration authorities or the nearest Lesotho High Commission.
Regular entry requirements
Visas
British nationals can obtain entry visas on arrival. Overstaying without proper authority is a serious matter. You may be held in detention. 
Passport validity
Your passport should be valid for a minimum period of 90 days from the date of exit from Lesotho. You must have at least 2 blank pages in your passport when you present it at immigration to enter or leave Lesotho.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents are accepted for entry into, transit and exit from Lesotho. Your Emergency Travel Document should have a minimum of 6 months remaining validity.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
South Africa
If you intend to visit South Africa before or after travelling to Lesotho your passport should have at least 2 additional blank pages when you present it at immigration to enter or leave South Africa.
Travelling with children via a South African airport
If you’re transiting through a South African airport with children, see our South Africa travel advice page for information and advice about the documents you’ll need to carry.
