At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Coronavirus
There are no confirmed cases of coronavirus (COVID-19) in Lesotho. However, the authorities have introduced a number of precautionary measures in response to the coronavirus pandemic.
Visitors to Lesotho must travel or transit via South Africa. South Africa has put in place travel restrictions on individuals from countries affected by coronavirus, including the United Kingdom. A number of the border crossing points between South Africa and Lesotho have been closed including the crossing points at Tele Bridge, Peka Bridge and Sani Pass. Follow our travel advice for South Africa and consult your nearest South African High Commission for further information.
All travellers arriving in Lesotho will be screened for coronavirus. You should comply with any additional screening measures by the authorities if asked to go through extra checks. Anyone showing symptoms of coronavirus may be placed in an isolation facility in a government hospital.
All individuals who have been in coronavirus affected areas within the past 14 days, including the UK, are required to self-isolate for 14 days. The Prime Minister of Lesotho recently announced that this self-isolation period will take place in a government-nominated hotel at the visitor’s expense.
If you need further information about entry requirements, contact the local immigration authorities or the nearest Lesotho High Commission. You should also check with your airline or travel company for the latest information.
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
Medical treatment
Lesotho has basic medical facilities. Expatriates use medical facilities in Bloemfontein, South Africa, a 90-minute drive (140km) from Maseru. Access may be affected by the new South African travel restrictions. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad, including evacuation by air and repatriation.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 121 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
