Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

Lesotho’s borders remain closed. Movement of persons in or out of Lesotho is prohibited. SAA Airlink flights between Maseru and Johannesburg Airport have been suspended.
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs have told the British High Commission that foreign visitors are permitted to leave to catch flights out of South Africa if flights resume. However, visitors to Lesotho must travel through, or transit via, South Africa. South Africa has put in place travel restrictions and visa requirements for individuals from countries affected by coronavirus (COVID-19), including the United Kingdom. Special permission from the South African authorities is required to return to the UK via South Africa. If you wish to return to the UK you should contact the British High Commission in Pretoria on +27 12 421 7500.
See more information and advice about staying where you are if you cannot return to the UK.
UK Special Flights
Booking for UK special flights for British tourists, short-term visitors and their direct dependents to return to the UK from South Africa has now closed. There are currently no further UK Government special flights from Lesotho or South Africa planned.
Check the travel advice pages for South Africa for details of any other repatriation flights from South Africa.
This travel advice will be updated with further information on any future special flights and other options to leave Lesotho as soon as this is available.
Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British High Commission on @AnneMacroUK.
Future Options
The British High Commission in Maseru is in contact with airlines, the Lesotho authorities and other governments to explore commercial flight options for returning British travellers to the UK as soon as possible.
This travel advice will be updated when departure options become available.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Your journey home
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
What to do
If you cannot leave Lesotho at this time, you should:
follow the advice of local authorities, including local measures to help minimise your risk of exposure to coronavirus
find accommodation that’s suitable for your needs.
keep in regular contact with family and friends at home, so they know you are safe and well
See more information and advice about staying where you are if you cannot return to the UK.
Help and Support
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British High Commission Pretoria, (which provides consular support to British nationals in Lesotho) on +27 12 421 7500
The High Commission cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone. This page will be updated when departure options become available. To get the latest information, sign up for travel advice email alerts.
Further Information
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK,, or what to do if you cannot travel immediately.
