

Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.    
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Lesotho
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Lesotho, attacks cannot be ruled out.  
Political situation
There are occasional political demonstrations in Maseru. These are usually peaceful, but there is a risk of isolated incidents of violence. Move away from demonstrations or gatherings, particularly if you see the security forces are present. Lesotho successfully held elections in 2022 but has had a history which includes political-related violence in past decades.  
Crime
Much of the violent crime in Lesotho is gun crime between organised crime groups. However, foreigners are vulnerable to opportunistic street crime and vehicle crime.
Gender-based violence is very high in Lesotho. Most crimes based on gender are between people who already know each other, but violence towards women and girls happens in all areas of the country.
Mugging and violent vehicle crime
Muggers can target foreign nationals. Do not walk alone in isolated areas or after dark.
Armed carjackers or robbers may try to stop your car or get into it while you are stationary. The danger is greatest in urban areas. Do not stop your car if people try to flag you down and do not give lifts to strangers.
Keep doors locked, windows shut and valuables out of sight. If you are driving across the country:
try to drive during daylight hours
take care near border crossings and at road junctions
be wary of road blocks that need you to stop or slow down
If you are caught up in an attack, do not offer any resistance.
Petty theft and burglary
Take precautions to safeguard your valuables and cash. Leave them in hotel safes, if possible. Keep copies of important documents, including your passport’s photo page and entry stamps, in a separate place.
There is often an increase in thefts, especially burglaries from villas, leading up to the Christmas and Easter holiday periods.
Laws and cultural differences
Personal ID
Always carry a copy of the photo page of your passport and your entry stamp. Officials may ask to see these.
Illegal drugs and prison sentences
Possession of drugs is a serious offence and punishments can be severe, including prison sentences.
LGBT+ travellers
Sexual activity between men is illegal, but FCDO is not aware of this being enforced. Showing affection in public may attract unwanted and negative attention.
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Transport risks
Road travel
You can use a UK photocard driving licence to drive in Lesotho for up to 3 months. If you still have a paper driving licence, you may need to update it to a photocard licence or get the correct version of the international driving permit (IDP) as well.
Driving standards and road conditions in Lesotho are poor. You should drive with caution.
Animals roaming on the roads are a hazard, especially at night.
Taxis and minibuses
Local minibus taxis (‘4+1s’) may be poorly maintained and uninsured. They often ignore road safety rules including speed limits. Avoid using them and steer clear of them when driving.
It’s safer to use transport arranged by your accommodation or by a tour operator.
