This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Lesotho as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Lesotho to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Lesotho
For information on entering Lesotho, see Entry requirements
The Government of Lesotho has partially lifted restrictions on movement. However all persons are still required to remain at home unless providing or acquiring goods or services, or attending funerals and religious services
Social measures
Schools are re-opening for certain year groups.
Anyone leaving their place of resident must wear a mask. Most businesses and offices are allowed to operate provided health regulations and social distancing are observed.
Purchase of alcohol is only permitted on Mondays and Thursdays and restrictions on quantity are in place.
Cafes and restaurants may only provide take away meals.
Parks, nightclubs are not yet allowed to open.
All gatherings are prohibited except for funerals and religious services of not more than 50 people.
Travel
Travel by vehicle is permitted only when necessary to obtain goods and services, restrictions are in place to limit the number of passengers carried. Private vehicles are allowed to carry two people per row of seats. Face coverings should be worn.
Public transport is only permitted to operate between 6am and 7pm.
Health
Medical care in Lesotho is limited. Most expatriates use medical facilities in South Africa. Access to these facilities is currently restricted due to the new South African visa requirements.
Entry/Exit to provide or receive emergency medical services for a life threatening condition is allowed, with approval from the Ministry of Home Affairs.
If you take regular medication, you should ensure you have sufficient supply for the full duration of the Lesotho and South Africa lockdowns. Pharmacies are classified as an essential service and will remain open, with reduced hours. Most medicines that require a prescription from a doctor in the UK will require one in Lesotho. If necessary, you should get an electronic subscription from your medical practitioner to enable a local doctor to write on. Ask your insurer or you accommodation provider, to help you find one.
For contact details for English speaking doctors, visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Lesotho.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Lesotho, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
The Lesotho Government has set up a hotline for coronavirus issues. Anyone who believes that they have symptoms of coronavirus should call: +266 58862893 or +266 80032020.
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
