Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

Coronavirus: stay up to date
See information on measures introduced in Lesotho in response to the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. Find out how to return to the UK from Lesotho.
See coronavirus travel advice for guidance on international travel.
Sign up for email alerts for Lesotho travel advice.
There are no confirmed cases of coronavirus (COVID-19) in Lesotho. However, the authorities have introduced a number of precautionary measures in response to the coronavirus pandemic. See Coronavirus
Given the rapidly changing situation in the region we are temporarily withdrawing a limited number of UK staff and their dependents. The High Commission in Lesotho will continue to carry out essential work. The British High Commission in Pretoria provides consular support to British nationals in Lesotho. If you are in Lesotho and need urgent help from the UK Government call +27 12 421 7500. If you are in the UK and worried about a British national in Lesotho call 020 7008 1500.
Visitors to Lesotho must travel or transit via South Africa. South Africa has put in place travel restrictions on individuals from countries affected by coronavirus (COVID-19), including the United Kingdom and has closed its airspace to commercial airlines. Follow our travel advice for South Africa and consult your nearest South African High Commission.
From 9 April the British Government in partnership with Virgin Atlantic will operate special flights from Johannesburg and Cape Town for British travellers in South Africa to return to the UK. Further details of eligibility, and how to book are in our travel advice for South Africa.
British travellers in Lesotho should be aware that it is not yet certain that the South African authorities will issue visas to British passport holders to enable them to access these flights. Eligible British travellers should contact the British High Commission in Maseru on BHC.Maseru@fco.gov.uk in advance of booking.
On 25 March the Government of Lesotho announced restrictions on movement from midnight on 29 March until 21 April: between these dates everyone in Lesotho must stay at home except for purchase of food and essential household shopping or to access medial services. Non-essential travel within and outside the country is prohibited except for the transport of food, medical supplies and essential household goods.
Most visits to Lesotho are trouble free.
There are ongoing political tensions and occasional spontaneous political demonstrations in Maseru. You should avoid demonstrations, rallies and large public gatherings. There is often an increase in criminal activity, especially property crimes, leading up to the holiday season. Take extra care and be vigilant during this period. See Crime
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Lesotho, attacks can’t be ruled out. See Terrorism
Take out comprehensive travel and medical insurance before you travel. 
