Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

Hong Kong has put measures in place to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
For information on how to return to the UK from Hong Kong, see Return to the UK
Transit through Hong Kong Airport
Transit services are suspended at Hong Kong International Airport.
Entry restrictions
Travellers arriving in Hong Kong on flights from overseas countries/territories, who are not Hong Kong residents, will be denied entry to Hong Kong. Non-Hong Kong residents travelling to Hong Kong from mainland China, Macao or Taiwan will also be denied entry if they have been to any overseas country/territory in the past 14 days.
All travellers entering Hong Kong, including Hong Kong residents, will have to take a mandatory medical test for coronavirus and will be required to undergo 14-day compulsory quarantine. Quarantine is usually spent at a residential address, but arrivals may be placed in a Hong Kong government quarantine centre.
All border crossings with mainland China remain closed indefinitely, with the exception of the Shenzhen Bay Checkpoint and the Hong Kong-Zhuhai-Macau Bridge. All ferry crossings between Hong Kong and mainland China, and Hong Kong and Macao have ceased. Kai Tak Cruise and Ocean Terminals are also closed to passengers indefinitely.
Certain groups of people travelling from mainland China, Taiwan and Macao may be granted an exemption from quarantine requirements by applying in advance to the Chief Secretary of the Administration. These groups include people involved in receiving or providing education and those travelling for purposes relating to manufacturing operations, business activities or the provision of professional services in the interest of Hong Kong’s economic development.
Health Declaration form
All inbound travellers via Hong Kong International Airport are required to submit a health declaration form.
Health screening and coronavirus testing
All arrivals will be subject to advanced screening measures, including temperature checks. Those deemed to have a high temperature will undergo further checks by the Port Health Office at the airport. If they meet further risk criteria, they will be transferred to a Hong Kong public hospital for mandatory checks/treatment.
All asymptomatic arrivals at Hong Kong International Airport will have to provide a saliva sample which will be tested for coronavirus. After collecting baggage, travellers will be taken by shuttle bus to the designated location. Travellers will have to wait for test results, before proceeding to their mandatory quarantine location.
Passengers arriving on morning flights will be taken to the AsiaWorld Expo centre and will receive test results on the same day. This could take 8 or more hours. Passengers arriving in the afternoon and evening will need to wait for test results overnight, and will be temporarily accommodated in the Department of Health Holding Centre for Test Results (HCTR) set up in the Regal Oriental Hotel win Kowloon.
If the sample tests positive, the Hong Kong authorities will notify you and arrange for admission to a public hospital. All arrivals, including those who test negative for coronavirus, are required to undergo 14-day compulsory quarantine. See “Quarantine measures” below.
See the Hong Kong Government coronavirus website for further details.
Hospital Isolation
Coronavirus patients are kept in isolation wards in Hong Kong hospitals until they twice test negative for coronavirus. You may be separated from your child if one of you tests positive for coronavirus. If this happens to you, you can call +(852) 2901 3000 for 24/7 urgent consular assistance. Non-residents may be charged for their care.
Quarantine measures
The Hong Kong SAR Government have implemented a range of quarantine measures in recent weeks.
Quarantine is usually spent at home or a residential address, but arrivals may be placed in a Hong Kong government quarantine centre. Family members of someone who tests positive, or those who have been in close contact, will also be required to go in to a government quarantine centre. Hong Kong residents who have been to Daegu or Gyeongsangbuk-do in Korea; Iran; or Emilia-Romagna, Lombardo or Veneto in Italy within the last 14 days will be allocated a government quarantine facility.
For all quarantine arrangements in Hong Kong:
You are not allowed to leave your designated quarantine location for 14 days. This means you are also unable to leave Hong Kong for the duration of the quarantine.
You are not able to serve your 14 day quarantine in a hotel.
If you are allocated a government quarantine centre, you may be asked to contribute around £20 (HK$200) per night towards the cost.
Items that can be taken in to government quarantine are restricted. There is no smoking allowed and no alcohol. Depending on your centre, facilities may be basic: there may be no fridge and no air-conditioning.
If you are quarantined at your home address you will be expected to activate sharing of your real-time location with the Hong Kong government, or be tagged electronically.
If you are arriving in Hong Kong from Europe and the US, during an initial trial of the technology, you will be issued with a bluetooth-enabled wristband which will be activated at the airport and linked to a mobile app ‘StayHomeSafe’ on your phone.
Arrivals from other destinations may be issued with non-bluetooth wristbands.
The bluetooth-enabled wristbands will alert the authorities if the wearer leaves home with or without their phone.
Failure to comply with the quarantine conditions may result in you being immediately taken to Government quarantine facilities. You could face a six month prison sentence and a substantial fine. You should comply with the requirements of your quarantine arrangements.
Social distancing measures
From Sunday 29 March, the Hong Kong government will prohibit group gatherings with more than four people in public places. Failure to comply with the prohibition may result in a six month prison sentence and a substantial fine. If eating at a restaurant, no more than four people can sit at a table. Some leisure facilities remain closed.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
