The information on this page covers the most common types of travel and reflects the UK government’s understanding of the rules currently in place. Unless otherwise stated, this information is for travellers using a full ‘British Citizen’ passport.
The authorities in the country or territory you’re travelling to are responsible for setting and enforcing the rules for entry. If you’re unclear about any aspect of the entry requirements, or you need further reassurance, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
You should also consider checking with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Entry rules in response to coronavirus (COVID-19)
Entry to Hong Kong
Travellers arriving in Hong Kong on flights from overseas countries/territories, who are not Hong Kong residents, will be denied entry to Hong Kong. Non-Hong Kong residents travelling to Hong Kong from mainland China, Macao or Taiwan will also be denied entry if they have been to any overseas country/territory in the past 14 days. Spouses and minor children of Hong Kong residents are exempt from the above restrictions.
All travellers entering Hong Kong, including Hong Kong residents, will have to take a mandatory medical test for coronavirus on arrival and need to undergo 21-day compulsory quarantine. See Testing on arrival and Quarantine requirements below.
Travellers arriving at Hong Kong International Airport (with the exception of those travelling from mainland China, Macao and Taiwan) need to provide confirmation of a hotel room reservation in a designated quarantine hotel in Hong Kong for no less than 21 days, starting on the day of their arrival. You should check the government’s list of hotels when you make your booking. You must take designated transport, which is provided by the government, from the holding centre to your hotel. Travellers will then be subject to 21 days compulsory quarantine at that hotel and further testing for Covid-19. You can find further details on the Hong Kong SAR Government website.
Travellers who have visited specified “very high risk” (UK and Ireland) or “high risk” (Bangladesh, Belgium, Canada, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, France, Germany, Indonesia, Kazakhstan, Romania, Russia, Switzerland, Turkey, Ukraine, the United Arab Emirates and the United States) places under the Hong Kong SAR government’s Prevention and Control of Disease Regulation (CAP. 599H) within the past 21 days, will need to provide a negative nucleic acid test result for COVID-19, taken no more than 72 hours prior to their departure. You should check Hong Kong SAR government’s website for important details about the documents required. Passengers transiting within a “very high risk” or “high risk” place must be tested within 72 hours of their final departure from that country.
The Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (SAR) government will deny entry to Hong Kong to travellers that have visited Brazil, India, Nepal, Pakistan, the Philippines or South Africa for more than two hours within the past 21 days. This includes those transiting Brazil, India, Nepal, Pakistan, the Philippines or South Africa if they disembark the aircraft. Visit the Hong Kong SAR government’s website for further details.
All passengers, including departing, arriving and transfer/transit passengers need to wear face masks in all passenger accessible areas of Hong Kong International Airport.
For up-to-date advice on entry requirements and restrictions, visit the Hong Kong SAR government coronavirus website.
Hong Kong – Singapore Air Travel Bubble
An air travel bubble between Hong Kong and Singapore is due to commence on 26 May. You can find further details on the Hong Kong Tourism Commission website.
Transiting Hong Kong
Transit services at Hong Kong International Airport resumed on 15 June 2020 for passengers who can be checked through from port of origin to final destination. Transiting between flights operated by different airlines is now allowed. Transiting through Hong Kong from, but not to, mainland China is now allowed. You should check with your travel agent or airline before travelling and check the Hong Kong International Airport website.
There is a risk you will be placed into isolation in hospital in Hong Kong or 21 days government quarantine. All passengers transiting Hong Kong International Airport will be subject to advanced screening measures, including temperature checks. Passengers deemed to have a high temperature will undergo further checks by the Port Health Office at the airport. If you meet further risk criteria, you will be transferred to a Hong Kong public hospital for mandatory checks/treatment, where it is highly likely you will be asked to complete a mandatory COVID-19 test. If you successfully pass health screening you need to sit in designated areas at boarding gates and use designated queues in dining facilities and shops, in line with Hong Kong International Airport anti-virus measures.
Travel between Hong Kong, Macao and mainland China
All border crossings with mainland China remain closed indefinitely, with the exception of the Shenzhen Bay Checkpoint and the Hong Kong-Zhuhai-Macau Bridge. All passengers wanting to board a shuttle bus to cross the bridge departing from Hong Kong to Macau must present a certificate confirming that they have tested negative for COVID-19 within seven days of their departure. The special ferry service between Taipa Ferry Terminal in Macao and Hong Kong International Airport has now ceased operations. All ferry crossings between Hong Kong and mainland China are currently not in operation with the exception of the service from Shenzhen Shekou Port to Hong Kong International Airport. Kai Tak Cruise and Ocean Terminals are also closed to passengers indefinitely.
Arrivals from mainland China, Taiwan and Macao must quarantine at home or in a hotel for 14 days. Certain groups of people travelling from mainland China, Taiwan and Macao may be granted an exemption from quarantine requirements by applying in advance to the Chief Secretary of the Administration. These groups include people involved in receiving or providing education and those travelling for purposes relating to manufacturing operations, business activities or the provision of professional services in the interest of Hong Kong’s economic development.
Hong Kong residents in mainland China may be eligible for the Return2hk scheme, which enables quarantine free travel from mainland China to Hong Kong. You can find further information on the Hong Kong SAR Government coronavirus website.
Health declaration form
All inbound travellers via Hong Kong International Airport need to submit a health declaration form.
Testing on arrival
All travellers ending their journey at Hong Kong International Airport will have to provide a saliva sample which will be tested for coronavirus. After collecting baggage, travellers will be taken by shuttle bus to the designated location. Travellers will have to wait for test results, before proceeding to their mandatory quarantine hotel.
Travellers will be required to remain at the airport, or a specified hotel overnight, whilst awaiting test results. Passengers arriving on morning flights must proceed to the Temporary Specimen Collection Centre located in the Midfield Concourse (MFC) in the restricted area of Hong Kong International Airport. You will receive test results on the same day. This could take 8 or more hours. Passengers arriving in the afternoon and evening will need to wait for test results overnight, and will be temporarily accommodated in the Department of Health Holding Centre for Test Results (HCTR) set up in the Rambler Hotel in Tsing Yi. Please note that children under the age of 16 cannot stay at the Rambler Hotel unaccompanied. Parents who stay with their child at the HCTR on the first night whilst awaiting test results, will have to continue to self-isolate for the full 14 days. If travelling unaccompanied, there is a risk that a child may have to stay alone overnight at the airport on arrival while awaiting test results. Further information is available on the Centre for Health Protection’s website.
Children over the age of 16 travelling to Hong Kong on their own must be met by an adult for checking in to the HCTR whilst they await test results. Please contact the Port Health Authority for the latest guidance (+852 3904 9333).
If the sample tests positive, the Hong Kong authorities will notify the individual and arrange for admission to a public hospital where they will remain in isolation until they test negative twice. If you are deemed to be a close contact of a positive case, you will be place in a Hong Kong government quarantine centre for 21 days. All arrivals including those who test negative for coronavirus need to undergo 21-day compulsory quarantine in a designated hotel. See “Quarantine requirements” below.
You may be separated from your child if one of you tests positive for coronavirus. If this happens to you, you can call +(852) 2901 3000 for 24/7 urgent consular assistance.
Quarantine requirements
Quarantine is mostly spent at a designated hotel. Family members of someone who tests positive, or those who have been in close contact, will be placed in a government quarantine centre.
Children travelling alone will also need to quarantine for 21 days on arrival in a designated hotel. It is down to hotel policy whether a child can self-isolate alone. Further details can be found on the Hong Kong SAR government’s website and you should call the Port Heath Division (+852 3904 9333) to understand the latest requirements if your child is travelling alone.
For up-to-date advice on entry requirements and restrictions, please visit the Hong Kong SAR government’s website
For all quarantine arrangements in Hong Kong:
you’re not allowed to leave your designated quarantine location for 21 days. This means you’re also unable to leave Hong Kong for the duration of the quarantine
if you’re allocated a government quarantine centre, you may be asked to contribute around £20 (HK$200) per night towards the cost
items that can be taken in to government quarantine are restricted. There is no smoking allowed and no alcohol. Depending on your centre, facilities may be basic: there may be no fridge and no air-conditioning
you will be issued with a bluetooth-enabled wristband which will be activated at the airport and linked to a mobile app ‘StayHomeSafe’ on your phone. The bluetooth-enabled wristbands will alert the authorities if the wearer leaves their registered address with or without their phone
Failure to comply with the quarantine conditions may result in you being immediately taken to government quarantine facilities. You could face a 6-month prison sentence and a substantial fine. You should comply with the requirements of your quarantine arrangements.
See the Hong Kong government coronavirus website for further information.
Demonstrating your COVID-19 vaccination status
If you live in England, the Hong Kong SAR Government will accept the NHS app or your NHS letter to demonstrate your COVID-19 vaccination status. You should not use your NHS vaccine appointment card to demonstrate your vaccine status.
Regular entry requirements
Visas
Although Hong Kong is now part of the People’s Republic of China, it remains a Special Administrative Region with its own immigration controls. You can visit Hong Kong for up to 6 months without a visa. However during the COVID-19 pandemic, different entry requirements are being applied in Hong Kong, including refusing entry to all non-Hong Kong residents. For up-to-date advice on entry requirements and restrictions, please visit the Hong Kong SAR government’s website
If you plan to work or study in Hong Kong, or stay for a period of longer than 6 months you will need to get a visa. For further information contact the nearest Chinese mission with visa issuing facilities or the Hong Kong Immigration Department:
Immigration Tower
7 Gloucester Road
Wanchai
Hong Kong
telephone: 852 2824 6111
Passport validity
Your passport should be valid for at least one month after the date of your departure from Hong Kong.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents are accepted for entry, airside transit and exit from Hong Kong.
Visits to mainland China and Macao
See Entry rules in response to coronavirus
China is suspending the entry of foreign nationals into China from 28 March, including those with existing visas. The only exemptions will be diplomatic, service, courtesy or C visas. Only those with a visa issued on or after 27 March 2020 will be allowed to enter China. See China travel advice.
The Macao government has announced that all travellers arriving in Macao, who are not residents of Macao, Hong Kong, Taiwan or mainland China, will be denied entry. Residents of Hong Kong, Taiwan or mainland China who have travelled overseas in the 14 days prior to their arrival will also be denied entry. Residents of Hong Kong, Taiwan or mainland China who have visited Hong Kong or Taiwan in the 14 days prior to entry will be subject to 14 days of medical surveillance in a designated centre. Macao residents who have been overseas or to Hong Kong or Taiwan in the 14 days prior to entry will be subject to 14 days of medical surveillance in a designated centre. For further information, see Macao travel advice.
There are reports of greater scrutiny from mainland authorities at border crossings between the mainland and Hong Kong and Macau at this time, including checks on travellers’ electronic devices. You should be aware that the thresholds for detention and prosecution in China differ from those in Hong Kong.
Bringing restricted items into Hong Kong
According to Hong Kong law, it’s illegal for visitors travelling to or transiting through Hong Kong International Airport to carry certain items including stun guns, objects with sharp points or edges (eg samurai swords) and martial arts equipment (eg knuckledusters). Offenders are liable to a severe fine or imprisonment. For a full list of restricted items, visit the website of the Hong Kong Police Force.
Electronic cigarettes
If you’re entering Hong Kong with e-cigarettes containing nicotine, you’ll need a medical prescription indicating that they’re for personal use. If the e-cigarette is nicotine-free and for personal use, no medical prescription is needed. For more information visit the Hong Kong Department of Health website.
