At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Coronavirus
Cases of coronavirus (COVID-19) have been confirmed in Hong Kong. The Hong Kong SAR Government has announced a series of measures designed to prevent the spread of the virus.
Health Declaration form
All inbound travellers via Hong Kong International Airport are required to submit a health declaration form.
Applicability of Hong Kong Government Measures
The Hong Kong SAR Government have implemented a range of quarantine measures in recent weeks. The exact arrangements of quarantine vary depending on where you have been to and when. From 12.01am local time on Thursday 19 March, the measures will escalate further and include those travelling from the UK. These measures will include a compulsory quarantine period of 14 days. Those without a residential address in Hong Kong will undertake quarantine in a Hong Kong government quarantine centre. Individuals will be unable to leave Hong Kong during their quarantine period.
Until 12.01am on Thursday 19 March, the following measures apply:
Travellers who have been in Hubei Province of mainland China in the 14 days prior to arrival in Hong Kong, and who are not Hong Kong residents, will be denied entry to Hong Kong.
All travellers who have been in the following locations 14 days prior to arrival in Hong Kong will be required to enter compulsory quarantine at a Hong Kong government quarantine centre for 14 days: Daegu and Gyeongsangbuk-do regions in South Korea; Iran; and the Emilia-Romagna, Lombardy and Veneto regions in Italy.
Travellers arriving in Hong Kong who have been in the following locations 14 days prior to arrival in Hong Kong will be required to enter compulsory quarantine. For Hong Kong residents this can be at home. For non-Hong Kong residents this will be undertaken at a Hong Kong government quarantine centre: Mainland China (except Hubei); Hokkaido in Japan; South Korea (except Daegu and Gyeongsangbuk-do); and the Schengen Area in Europe (except Emilia-Romagna, Lombardy and Veneto regions in Italy).
After 12.01am on Thursday 19 March, the following measures apply:
All travellers entering Hong Kong will be required to enter compulsory quarantine for 14 days. This includes travellers coming to Hong Kong from the United Kingdom. For Hong Kong residents, including foreign nationals who live in Hong Kong, this quarantine can take place at home. For non-Hong Kong residents, such as tourists and business visitors, this will be in a Hong Kong government quarantine centre. Those who enter Hong Kong from Macao or Taiwan, and have been in those locations for at least 14 days prior, will not be required to undertake quarantine.
Travellers who have been in the Hubei Province of mainland China in the 14 days prior to arrival in Hong Kong, and who are not Hong Kong residents, will be denied entry to Hong Kong.
All travellers who have been in the following locations 14 days prior to arrival in Hong Kong will still be required to enter compulsory quarantine at a Hong Kong government quarantine centre for 14 days: Daegu and Gyeongsangbuk-do regions in South Korea; Iran; and the Emilia-Romagna, Lombardy and Veneto regions in Italy.
For all quarantine arrangements in Hong Kong (those currently in force, and those which come into effect after 12.01am on Thursday 19 March):
Individuals will be expected to activate sharing of their real-time location with the Hong Kong government, or be tagged electronically as part of the requirement to report their location to the Hong Kong government.
Individuals are not allowed to leave their designated quarantine location for 14 days, which means they will also be unable to leave Hong Kong for the duration of the quarantine
It will not be possible to serve your 14 day quarantine period in a hotel.
It is likely you will have to contribute around £20 (HK $200) per night towards the cost of your quarantine centre.
Failure to comply with the quarantine conditions may result in a six month prison sentence and a substantial fine. You should comply with the requirements of your quarantine arrangements.
Health restrictions and Transit through Hong Kong Airport
Those transiting through Hong Kong airport will not be automatically subject to mandatory quarantine, but will be subject to advanced screening measures, including temperature checks. Those deemed to have high temperature will undergo further checks by the Port Health Office at the airport. If they meet further risk criteria, they will be transferred to Hong Kong public hospital for mandatory checks/treatment.
See the Hong Kong Government coronavirus website for further details.
All border crossings with mainland China remain closed indefinitely, with the exception of the Shenzhen Bay Checkpoint and the Hong Kong-Zhuhai-Macau Bridge. All ferry crossings between Hong Kong and mainland China, and Hong Kong and Macao have ceased. Kai Tak Cruise and Ocean Terminals are also closed to passengers indefinitely.
Further information
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available on the TravelHealthPro website.
You can find more information about cases in Hong Kong on the TravelHealthPro page for Hong Kong.
Health risks
Mosquito-borne diseases like dengue fever occur all year round. You should take appropriate precautions to avoid being bitten by mosquitoes. UK health authorities have classified Hong Kong as having a risk of dengue virus transmission. For information and advice about the risks associated with dengue fever visit the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) website.
You may undergo temperature screening at borders. Depending on the results, further medical examinations may be required.
Medical treatment
Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation. The cost of medical treatment in Hong Kong is high.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 999 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
