National Security Law
The National Security Law (NSL) entered into force in Hong Kong on 30 June 2020. The law includes offences of secession, subversion, organisation and perpetration of terrorist activities, and collusion with a foreign country, all of which can be interpreted broadly and carry a maximum penalty of life imprisonment. Both individuals and organisations can face prosecution under the NSL.
The NSL applies to activities conducted both inside and outside Hong Kong, which includes activities conducted in the UK. The National Security Law applies to all individuals irrespective of nationality or residency. Hong Kong’s National Security Police have issued arrest warrants and financial rewards against individuals living outside Hong Kong, including in the UK.
Under the National Security Law, there is a possibility of being detained and removed to mainland China for some offences. The English translation of the legislation is available online.
You should be aware that issuing or supporting political statements critical of the Hong Kong and Chinese authorities, including online and on social media, could be viewed as a crime under the NSL and may lead to prosecution in Hong Kong. Those who support individuals who themselves are deemed to be conducting activities in contravention of the National Security Law could also face prosecution under the same law.
The Immigration (Amendment) Ordinance came in force on 1 August 2021. It contains powers that could prevent people from leaving the Hong Kong SAR. The Hong Kong SAR Government has given undertakings that such powers will not be used and that the ability to remove people from flights will be applied only to stop certain asylum seekers from entering Hong Kong.
Hong Kong, like other parts of China, does not recognise dual nationality. If you have both British and Chinese nationality you may be treated as a Chinese citizen by local authorities, even if you enter Hong Kong on your British passport. If this is the case, the British Consulate-General may not be able to offer you consular assistance. The FCDO has published guidance on nationality in China. If you have formally renounced Chinese citizenship, you should carry evidence that you have done so.
There are on the spot fines for littering and spitting.
The import and re-export of all elephant ivory and its products, including tourist souvenirs, is banned. Offenders could face a fine and/or imprisonment.
Don’t become involved with illegal drugs of any kind. From 1 February 2023 this includes Cannabidiol (CBD). Possession of these drugs can lead to imprisonment.
Don’t take photographs of military installations. Since the 1997 handover, the defence of Hong Kong has been the responsibility of the People’s Liberation Army (PLA). All previous British military barracks now belong to the PLA.
The Hong Kong SAR Government has restrictions in place on the quantity of powdered baby formula allowed for persons departing the territory. Penalties for non-compliance are severe. See: Hong Kong Customs and Excise Department website
