If you live in the UK and are currently visiting Hong Kong, you’re strongly advised to return now by commercial means. Don’t run the risk of getting stranded.
There remain commercial options to return to the UK from Hong Kong.
UK special charter flights will only operate for priority countries where commercial flights are not possible. You should not assume that these flights will become available in countries where commercial routes are operating. Please do not contact the contracted travel management company if no flight is advertised here.
If you cannot leave Hong Kong at this time, see advice on staying in Hong Kong during coronavirus.
Flights
Direct flights from Hong Kong to the UK are still available, though at a significantly-reduced frequency. Cathay Pacific and British Airways are currently operating flights to London, but on a reduced schedule. You should check individual airlines’ websites for the latest information, flight schedules and refund policies before purchasing a ticket.
The Hong Kong SAR Government has announced that transit services at Hong Kong International Airport will resume from 1 June. Passengers transiting Hong Kong will need to undergo health screening (See ‘Entry requirements’).
Indirect flights to the UK are operating from Hong Kong, albeit with limited frequency. If you choose an indirect flight, you should check that the country in which you plan to transit allows you to do so.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Your journey home: re-entering the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK. You:
need to provide your journey and contact details up to 48 hours before you’re due to arrive in the UK
are not allowed to leave the place you’re staying for the first 14 days you’re in the UK except in very limited situations (known as ‘self-isolating’)
See also the list of people who are exempt from the border rules.
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) also provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
Further Information
Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British Consulate-General on Facebook and Twitter.
If you cannot travel home at this time, see advice on staying in Hong Kong during coronavirus.
