Political situation
Hong Kong is generally a stable society underpinned by the rule of law. However, in 2019 and early 2020, large-scale political demonstrations took place throughout Hong Kong, including in areas popular with tourists. While a number of peaceful activities took place, many other protests led to clashes between police and protesters involving significant violence. Protests now occur less frequently in Hong Kong. However protests, including some with violence, may still take place at any time.
In the light of the National Security Law that entered into force in Hong Kong on 30 June 2020, there is a risk of heightened tension. The law includes offences of secession, subversion, organisation and perpetration of terrorist activities, and collusion with a foreign country, all of which carry a maximum penalty of life imprisonment. The legislation states that these offences apply to activities conducted both inside and outside Hong Kong, which in practice could include activities conducted in the UK. China’s mainland authorities could under certain circumstances detain and try individuals who commit an offence, or are accused of committing an offence, under the terms of this law. The English translation of the legislation is available online.
While there have recently been fewer protests due to COVID-19 restrictions, the situation around protests and public gatherings have changed quickly in the past, with the potential for violence, especially during unauthorised protests. Protests in 2019 saw the use of petrol bombs and Molotov cocktails. Unauthorised protests in early 2020 were met by a more rapid and severe police response, including heavy use of tear gas, bean bag rounds and “sponge grenades”, and rubber bullets. Police have also deployed water cannon and, very occasionally, live rounds have also been deployed. Protests in the past have deviated from planned routes or rally locations and spilled over into nearby public spaces, such as shopping centres, housing estates and public transport hubs. If you’re in and around areas where demonstrations are, you should remain vigilant, follow the advice of local authorities and move away quickly to a safe place.
Demonstrations have led to sections of the city being closed off and road blocks being set up. During protests in early 2020, local buses, metro (MTR), Airport Express services and the Hong Kong Macao Ferry Terminal temporarily suspended operations without warning. Violent protests have also taken place inside or near MTR stations. You should remain vigilant at all times and check live service updates on the MTR website.
Some Mass Transit Railway (MTR) metro stations, including in major tourist areas, have been closed due to damage caused by protests. You should check the MTR and Hong Kong Transport Department websites when planning travel around Hong Kong.
The Immigration (Amendment) Ordinance came in force on 1 August. It contains powers that could prevent people from leaving the Hong Kong SAR. The Hong Kong SAR Government has given undertakings that such powers will not be used and that the ability to remove people from flights will be applied only to stop certain asylum seekers from entering Hong Kong.
Crime
The level of violent crime is very low but pick pocketing and other street crime can occur. You should take extra care of passports, credit cards and money in crowded areas and when checking in and out of hotels. There have been some isolated incidents of robberies in Hong Kong’s Country Parks; these incidents have been reduced following a crime prevention operation by the Hong Kong Police. Nevertheless, if you intend to hike in Hong Kong’s Country Parks you should stick to marked trails and avoid carrying valuables.
Personal attacks, including sexual assaults, are rare but do occur, including through drinks being spiked. You should take reasonable precautions - don’t leave drinks unattended and avoid accepting drinks from strangers. Women, travelling alone or with female friends, could be at greater risk. See advice for women travelling abroad.
The Hong Kong police have stated that they have discovered Improvised Explosive Devices (IEDs) on a number of occasions since October 2019. The police believe that devices used in October and December 2019 were intended to target police officers, while more recent devices have been aimed at a wider range of targets. No-one has been injured in these incidents to date, but there is a continuing risk of IEDs being used in Hong Kong.
Road travel
If you’re visiting Hong Kong, you can drive in Hong Kong with a valid UK driving licence for up to 12 months.
If you’re planning on living in Hong Kong, visit the Hong Kong SAR Transport Department website for more information on applying for a full or temporary driving licence.
If you’re planning to hire a car, check with your car hire company for information on their requirements before you travel.
Protest activity could affect certain road routes across Hong Kong, including the cross-harbour tunnel and other major bridges and toll plazas. In 2019 and 2020, protesters erected blockades throughout the city in areas where protests were taking place.
