This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Hong Kong as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Hong Kong to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Hong Kong
There are local travel restrictions in place in Hong Kong.
Social distancing measures
The Hong Kong government has prohibited group gatherings with more than eight people in public places – though some exemptions to this rule do apply (e.g. religious gatherings). For up to date information, you should follow the guidance from the Hong Kong authorities. Failure to comply with the prohibition may result in a six month prison sentence and a substantial fine. If eating at a restaurant, no more than eight people can sit at a table.
Hospital isolation
Coronavirus patients are kept in isolation wards in Hong Kong hospitals until they twice test negative for coronavirus. You may be separated from your child if one of you tests positive for coronavirus. If this happens to you, you can call +(852) 2901 3000 for 24/7 urgent consular assistance. Non-residents may be charged for their care.
Quarantine measures
The Hong Kong SAR Government have implemented a range of quarantine measures.
Quarantine is usually spent at home or a residential address, but arrivals may be placed in a Hong Kong government quarantine centre. Family members of someone who tests positive, or those who have been in close contact, will also be required to go in to a government quarantine centre.
Hong Kong residents (irrespective of their nationality) arriving from Pakistan, India, Bangladesh, Nepal and South Africa will be tested for coronavirus upon arrival and then transferred in coaches to a government quarantine centre for a 14-day compulsory quarantine period. Arrivals from these countries will not be able to serve their quarantine period at home or in another residential address.
For up-to-date advice on entry requirements and restrictions, please visit: https://www.coronavirus.gov.hk/eng/inbound-travel.html
For all quarantine arrangements in Hong Kong:
you are not allowed to leave your designated quarantine location for 14 days. This means you are also unable to leave Hong Kong for the duration of the quarantine
you are not able to serve your 14 day quarantine in a hotel
if you are allocated a government quarantine centre, you may be asked to contribute around £20 (HK$200) per night towards the cost
items that can be taken in to government quarantine are restricted. There is no smoking allowed and no alcohol. Depending on your centre, facilities may be basic: there may be no fridge and no air-conditioning
if you are quarantined at your home address you will be expected to activate sharing of your real-time location with the Hong Kong government, or be tagged electronically
if you are arriving in Hong Kong from Europe and the US, during an initial trial of the technology, you will be issued with a bluetooth-enabled wristband which will be activated at the airport and linked to a mobile app ‘StayHomeSafe’ on your phone. The bluetooth-enabled wristbands will alert the authorities if the wearer leaves home with or without their phone
arrivals from other destinations may be issued with non-bluetooth wristbands
Failure to comply with the quarantine conditions may result in you being immediately taken to Government quarantine facilities. You could face a 6-month prison sentence and a substantial fine. You should comply with the requirements of your quarantine arrangements.
Health
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Hong Kong.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Hong Kong, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
If you need urgent consular assistance, you should contact your local British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephones numbers are available 24/7.
