This travel advice covers the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (SAR). For mainland China, see travel advice for China.
Travel to Hong Kong is subject to entry restrictions
On 23 December, the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (SAR) government announced that from 00:01 on 24 December, travellers who had visited the UK for more than two hours within the past 21 days would be denied entry to Hong Kong.
Travellers from overseas countries/territories, who are not Hong Kong residents, will be denied entry
If you are eligible to enter Hong Kong and have not been in the UK for two hours or more in the past 21 days, you will be required to take a mandatory medical coronavirus test upon arrival and quarantine in a hotel approved by the Hong Kong SAR government for 14 days at your own expense.
Though UK arrivals are currently prohibited, the Hong Kong SAR government has mandated that all future UK arrivals must quarantine in an approved hotel for 21 days at your own expense. This period may be extended to 28 days at the discretion of the Hong Kong SAR government.
Travellers from specified high risk places, will also need to provide evidence of a negative test result for COVID-19 taken no more than 72 hours prior to their departure
Transit services at Hong Kong International Airport have resumed for passengers who can be checked through from port of origin to final destination
See Entry requirements for more information before you plan to travel.
Preparing for your return journey to the UK
If you’re returning to the UK from overseas, you will need to:
provide your journey and contact details before you travel
check if you need to self-isolate on your return
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
If you’re planning travel to Hong Kong, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCDO’s guidance on foreign travel insurance.
New national security legislation passed by the National People’s Congress Standing Committee meeting in Beijing entered into force in Hong Kong on 1 July. It introduces offences on secession, subversion, organisation and perpetration of terrorist activities, and collusion with a foreign country with a maximum penalty of life imprisonment. These offences can be applied to activities conducted outside Hong Kong. China’s mainland authorities could under certain circumstances detain and try individuals under the terms of this law. There is therefore a risk for those who commit an offence under the law of being detained and removed to mainland China. Due to recent heightened political sensitivity, there could be an increase in protests and violence. These could occur without warning, throughout Hong Kong. You should avoid protests and demonstrations. See Political situation.
Throughout 2019, large-scale political demonstrations took place all over the Hong Kong SAR, including in areas popular with tourists. While a number of peaceful activities have taken place, many other protests have led to clashes between police and protesters involving significant violence. You should keep up to date with developments across Hong Kong. You can sign up for email alerts to be notified when this travel advice is updated.
There are reports of greater scrutiny from mainland authorities at border crossings between the mainland and Hong Kong at this time, including checks on travellers’ electronic devices. See Visits to mainland China
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Hong Kong, attacks can not be ruled out. See Terrorism
The typhoon season in Hong Kong normally runs from April to October. See Natural disasters
You should take sensible precautions against pick pocketing and other street crime. See Crime
470,295 British nationals visited Hong Kong in 2019. Most visits are trouble free.
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.
The Overseas Business Risk service offers information and advice for British companies operating overseas on how to manage political, economic, and business security-related risks.
