Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for St. Kitts and Nevis on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Entry and borders
A travel advisory is in place restricting travel from the UK, Brazil, South Africa and India.
Only fully vaccinated travellers may enter the country, with exemptions made for nationals and residents of St Kitts and Nevis. Testing and a period of quarantine are required. Travellers should regularly check the St. Kitts Tourism Authority websites St. Kitts Tourism and Nevis Tourism Authority for updates and information on travel requirements.
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in St Kitts and Nevis. Changes may take effect at short notice.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with local and UK government testing requirements. You should contact local authorities for information on testing facilities.
Persons booked on a British Airways flight and wanting to return to the UK should contact their tour operator or call the BA Contact Centre on 1877 767 7970.
Alternatively, you may want to explore what regional options exist to connect with a flight travelling to the UK. One such option is to travel with the regional airline LIAT to either Antigua and Barbuda, or Barbados, where you can connect with a BA flight and continue your journey to the UK. If transiting a third country, you will need to check and adhere to the travel protocols of that county.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Public spaces and services
Restrictions in St Kitts and Nevis have eased with the ending of total lockdown effective 12 July and normal economic life has resumed, subject to COVID-19 social protocols. Daily curfew remains in effect 9.00 pm to 5.00 am.
Healthcare in St Kitts and Nevis
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in St Kitts and Nevis.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in St Kitts and Nevis
As information is available about the national vaccination programme, this page will be updated.
The Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) is the UK authority responsible for assessing the safety, quality and efficacy of vaccines. It has authorised the Pfizer/BioNTech, Oxford/AstraZeneca and Moderna vaccines for temporary supply and use in the UK. Find out more about MHRA approval for these vaccines.
British nationals living overseas should seek medical advice from their local healthcare provider in the country where they reside. Information about vaccines used in other national programmes, including regulatory status, should be available from the local authorities. This list of Stringent Regulatory Authorities recognised by the World Health Organisation may also be a useful source of additional information. Find out more information about the COVID-19 vaccines on the World Health Organization COVID-19 vaccines page.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
Keep up to date with the latest information from the Government Information Service.
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
