This page has information on travelling to St Kitts and Nevis. Check what you must do to return to the UK.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport from the UK, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in St Kitts and Nevis set and enforce entry rules.
All travellers
If you are not a St Kitts and Nevis national or resident, you must be fully vaccinated to enter St Kitts and Nevis. Non-vaccinated adult visitors will not be permitted entry to St Kitts and Nevis.
All travellers, including returning nationals, tourists or international travellers must submit either a Rapid Antigen negative test result taken 1 day prior to arrival, or a COVID-19 PCR test taken within 72 hours of travel, from an ISO 17025/CLIA accredited laboratory. On receiving a negative result, travellers should complete the embarkation form. All travellers will be required to undergo a health screening on arrival at the airport.
If you’re fully vaccinated
If you are not a St Kitts and Nevis national or resident, you must be fully vaccinated to enter St Kitts and Nevis. “Fully vaccinated” means having received two doses of the vaccine more than 14 days prior to arrival (or one dose for one-dose vaccines). Non-vaccinated adult visitors will not be permitted entry to St Kitts and Nevis.
Travellers should complete the embarkation form and upload their test results and evidence of vaccination prior to departure. All travellers will be required to undergo a health screening on arrival at the airport.
If you’re fully vaccinated and have completed the embarkation form you can enter St Kitts and Nevis without needing to test or quarantine.
Proof of vaccination status
You must present proof that you have been fully vaccinated to enter St Kitts and Nevis as a visitor.
St Kitts and Nevis will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 vaccination record. It does not accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 recovery letter. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
If you’re not fully vaccinated
Non-vaccinated visitors are not permitted to travel to St Kitts and Nevis.
If you’ve had COVID-19 in the past year
Proof of recovery documents from COVID-19 are not recognised, and do not exempt individuals from the full vaccination requirement to enter St Kitts and Nevis.
Residents of St Kitts and Nevis
Non-vaccinated and partially vaccinated returning nationals and residents are permitted to enter St Kitts and Nevis.
Upon arrival, all travellers will have their temperature checked and asked to answer a series of health screening questions, including health and travel history. If a traveller exhibits any COVID-19 symptoms during the health screening, the traveller will be required to take a COVID-19 test on site at their own expense.
Non-vaccinated and partially vaccinated returning nationals and residents will undergo an RT-PCR Test (USD100 National/Resident) on day 7 after arrival, and if they test negative, the returning National or Resident will be allowed to integrate into St Kitts and Nevis.
Children and young people
Children aged 17 and under must travel to St Kitts and Nevis accompanied by an adult. All children are required to have a negative nasopharyngeal Antigen, RT-PCR or NAAT test which must be uploaded to their parent’s KNA travel Entry form.
Exemptions
There are no entry requirement exemptions in place in St Kitts and Nevis. If you are not a national or resident, you must be fully vaccinated to enter St Kitts and Nevis. Non-vaccinated adult visitors will not be permitted entry to St Kitts and Nevis.
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
Passport validity
If you are visiting St Kitts and Nevis, your passport should be valid for a minimum period of six months from the date you arrive.
Visas
British passport holders don’t need a visa to visit St Kitts and Nevis.
On entry, you will be granted a specified period to stay. If you wish to stay longer you must apply and pay for an extension of stay through the St Kitts and Nevis Immigration Department.
It is an offence to overstay the entry period or to work without a work permit.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents are accepted for entry, airside transit and exit from St Kitts and Nevis.
Entry requirements may change from time to time. You should check with the St Kitts and Nevis High Commission in London before you travel.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
Departure tax
The departure tax is now included in the cost of your airline ticket.
Returning to the UK
Check what you must do to return to the UK.
