Coronavirus
The Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advises against all but essential travel to St Kitts and Nevis due to the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. Non-resident British Nationals already on the island should consider contacting your airline and/or tour operator in order to arrange departure as soon as practicably possible.
On 15 March the St Kitts & Nevis authorities advised that persons who had recently been in four European countries including the UK would be placed in mandatory self-isolation on arrival in St Kitts & Nevis, or mandatory institutional quarantine if showing symptoms of coronavirus infection. Travellers from these and seven other territories previously announced were advised not to travel to St Kitts & Nevis
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website.
Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Dengue fever is endemic to Latin America and the Caribbean and can occur throughout the year.
Cases of Chikungunya virus have been confirmed in St Kitts and Nevis. You should take steps to avoid being bitten by mosquitoes.
UK health authorities have classified St Kitts and Nevis as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For information and advice about the risks associated with Zika virus, visit the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
The main government hospital can cope with many types of treatment but serious cases may mean emergency evacuation.
Medical treatment in St Kitts and Nevis can be expensive. Make sure that you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment and repatriation.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 911 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment. Before choosing to be treated at a private facility, you should check their policies on pre-payment. Private clinics may not accept medical travel insurance as payment for treatment.
