

Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in St Kitts and Nevis
Although there is no recent history of terrorism in St Kitts and Nevis, attacks cannot be ruled out.
Crime
There have been incidents of serious crime including murder, armed robbery and sexual assault.
Take precautions to protect your personal safety:
make sure your accommodation is secure – this also applies if you’re staying on a yacht 
take care when walking alone off main roads
take particular care around large gatherings, including street and beach parties, especially after dark or during the festival season 
avoid isolated areas, including beaches, after dark 
only use licensed taxis 
do not carry large amounts of cash or jewellery 
leave valuables and travel documents in your hotel safe or a safety deposit box 
keep car doors locked when driving and do not stop if pedestrians try to flag down your vehicle
Protecting your belongings
Do not carry large amounts of cash or wear expensive-looking jewellery or watches. Where possible leave valuables and travel documents in a safe deposit box or hotel safe.
Laws and cultural differences
Camouflage clothing  
It is illegal for anyone, including children, to dress in camouflage clothing. You could get a 250 Eastern Caribbean dollar (EC dollar) fine and 3 months in prison.
Illegal drugs and prison sentences
There are severe penalties for all drug offences, particularly drug trafficking. If convicted at Magistrates Court, you could get a fine of up to 400,000 EC dollars or 3 times the street value, whichever is higher, and up to 10 years in prison. If the case goes to the High Court, sentences are a minimum of 15 years, up to life imprisonment.
Marijuana (cannabis) for personal use has been decriminalised, but you must have a licence to use it. There are fines for smoking of marijuana in some public places or without a licence.
LGBT+ travellers
Attitudes towards the LGBT+ community are mostly conservative in the Caribbean. Showing affection in public (for example, holding hands or kissing) is uncommon for opposite or same-sex couples and may receive unwanted and negative attention.
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Outdoor activities and adventure tourism
Swimming safety
Take care when swimming. Currents can be deceptively strong and not all beaches have lifeguards and warning flags. Monitor all beaches carefully and follow warnings.
See water safety on holiday from the Royal Life Saving Society.
Transport risks
Road travel
If you are planning to drive in St Kitts and Nevis, see information on driving abroad.
You must have a St Kitts and Nevis driving licence. You can buy a temporary licence from the Inland Revenue Department, valid for either 3 months (62.50 EC dollars) or one year (125 EC dollars). If you’re hiring a vehicle, the hire company will usually help with this process. You will need to show your UK driving licence and passport.
Hire car companies often have stricter requirements for their customers, such as a year of driving experience or a higher minimum age for driving. The minimum age to hire a vehicle is 21 years, but most car hire companies require you to be 25 or older. 
If you have an accident, phone the police on 911 and do not move your vehicle.
Drink-driving is illegal in St Kitts and Nevis. If you are tested and found to have more than 80mg of alcohol in 100mg of blood the penalties are a fine of:
2,000 EC dollars and 12 months’ imprisonment for a first offence
4,000 EC dollars and 2 years’ imprisonment for subsequent offences
Driving standards and road conditions
In St Kitts and Nevis:
there are potholes and unmarked speed bumps on minor roads
roads can be narrow with blind corners in rural areas
some roads are unlit at night
pedestrians often walk on the roads
drivers do not always use their indicators
road signs and hazards may not be easy to see
Taxis
Only use licensed taxis. Licensed taxi operators carry or display identification, and you can identify the taxis by the yellow licence plate with ‘T’ or ‘TA’ in the number. Unlicensed taxis often do not have insurance to carry passengers.
Taxis are not metered. There are standard taxi fares for most destinations. Agree the fare with the driver before you set off. You can often pay in US dollars as well as EC dollars.
Extreme weather and natural disasters
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards.
Hurricanes
The hurricane season runs from June to November.
Monitor local and international weather updates from the World Meteorological Organization and the US National Hurricane Center, and follow the advice of  local authorities, including any evacuation orders. See Extreme weather and natural disasters for more information.
Wildfires 
During especially hot and dry periods, a single spark or flame can start a wildfire. Report any fires to the emergency services immediately. If you start a wildfire (or attempt to start one), you can get up to 10 years in prison.
Earthquakes
Earthquakes are a risk in St Kitts and Nevis. The US Federal Emergency Management Agency website has advice about what to do before, during and after an earthquake. If there is an earthquake, follow advice from the local authorities.
Volcanoes  
Mount Liamuiga is a potentially active volcano and is likely to erupt in the future. The University of West Indies (UWI) Seismic Research Centre monitors volcanic activity on St Kitts and Nevis.
