This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in St Kitts and Nevis as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in St Kitts and Nevis to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in St Kitts and Nevis
For information on entering St Kitts and Nevis, see Entry Requirements.
During the extended State of Emergency and the COVID-19 regulations made under the Emergency Powers Act, no one is permitted to be away from their residence without special exemption as an essential worker or a pass or permission from the Commissioner of Police during the full 24-hour curfew.
The Government of St Kitts and Nevis has eased the tight restrictions imposed under the emergency regulations. New regulations are valid to 23 May. In the weeks commencing 11 May and 18 May, essential businesses may operate on a limited basis Monday – Friday, closing no later than 6pm and practising social and physical distancing protocols.
The nightly curfew lasts from 8.00pm to 5.00am. Churches, schools and places of entertainment remain closed. The sale of liquor is banned and it is mandatory to wear face masks in public. Beaches may be accessed 5.30am to 9.00am Monday to Friday. A 24 hour curfew is in place on Saturday 16 May and Sunday 17 May.
Health
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in St Kitts and Nevis.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in St Kitts and Nevis, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
Keep up to date with the latest information from the Government Information Service.
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
