A Travel Advisory is in place from 7 February for 30 days. UK Travellers will not be able to travel to St Kitts and Nevis. Those with permanent residence should contact local authorities before returning to the country.
St. Kitts and Nevis have temporarily suspended British Airways flights from the UK until the end of March 2021. If you are booked on a British Airways flight, you should contact the British Airways Contact Centre at 1877 767 7970 or speak to your travel agent.
Alternatively, you may want to explore what regional options exist to connect with a flight travelling to the UK. One such option is to travel with the regional airline LIAT to either Antigua and Barbuda, or Barbados, where you can connect with a BA flight and continue your journey to the UK. If transiting a third country, you will need to check and adhere to the travel protocols of that county.
Travellers from the UK are required to quarantine remaining in their rooms at all times at their hotel and not “Vacation in Place” for the duration of their stay or mandatory 14-day quarantine. The suspension remains under review and details of the suspension and visitor protocols may change at short notice. Travellers should regularly check the St. Kitts Tourism Authority websites St.Kitts Tourism and Nevis Tourism Authority for updates and information on travel requirements. Changes may take effect at short notice.
Travel to St. Kitts and Nevis is subject to entry restrictions. Travellers should regularly check the St. Kitts Tourism Authority websites St. Kitts Tourism and Nevis Tourism Authority for information on travel requirements and updates. Details of the suspension and visitor protocols may change at short notice. The travel websites should therefore be checked regularly.
Preparing for your return journey to the UK
If you’re returning to the UK from overseas, you will need to:
provide your journey and contact details before you travel
If your return journey to the UK transits another country, you should check whether it is subject to a travel ban or any other additional requirements. If so, contact your travel provider.
If you’re planning travel to St. Kitts and Nevis, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCDO’s guidance on foreign travel insurance.
The Eastern Caribbean Central Bank has announced that it will be withdrawing 1 cent and 2 cent coins and they will no longer be legal tender from 30 June 2020.
Most visits to St Kitts and Nevis are trouble-free but there have been incidents of crime including murder, armed robbery and sexual assault. See Crime
Consular support may be limited in St Kitts and Nevis as there is no British High Commission office. However, the British High Commission in Bridgetown, Barbados can provide consular support.
The hurricane season normally runs from June to November. See Natural disasters
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in St Kitts and Nevis, attacks can’t be ruled out. See Terrorism
