The information on this page covers the most common types of travel and reflects the UK government’s understanding of the rules currently in place. Unless otherwise stated, this information is for travellers using a full ‘British Citizen’ passport.
The authorities in the country or territory you’re travelling to are responsible for setting and enforcing the rules for entry. If you’re unclear about any aspect of the entry requirements, or you need further reassurance, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
You should also consider checking with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Entry rules in response to coronavirus (COVID-19)
Entry to Aruba
Aruba reopened its borders to travellers from Europe on 1 July 2020. The following requirements are mandatory for travel:
Completing and obtaining approval to travel to Aruba through the Embarkation/Disembarkation card online. You should submit relevant information online no more than 72 hours before arrival in Aruba;
Providing a negative COVID-19 test result within 72 hours of departure for Aruba;
Purchasing Aruba’s COVID-19 insurance for the duration of your trip;
Agreeing to health screening and temperature checks on arrival;
Wearing a mask during the flight and at the airport.
There are a number of exemptions to these requirements. Children under 15 years are not required to provide a negative COVID-19 test result on entry. Transit/transfer passengers who do not enter the country are not required to fill out the online Embarkation/Disembarkation card nor provide a negative COVID-19 test result.
There are also exemptions to the requirement to purchase COVID-19 insurance, including for transfer/transit passengers not entering the country; residents of Aruba, Curaçao and Bonaire; and certain other categories.
You can also choose to take a COVID-19 test, for a fee, on arrival in Aruba, but a mandatory quarantine period of 24 hours is required for all visitors who choose to be tested on arrival.
Further information on these entry requirements and exemptions can be found here.
Testing/Screening on arrival
For all travellers entering Aruba over the age of 15, a negative COVID-19 test result must be provided. The test must have been carried out within 72 hours of arrival in Aruba or on arrival in Aruba (which requires a mandatory 24 hour quarantine). A health screening and temperature check will be carried out on arrival. These are conditions of entry.
Quarantine requirements
Those who test positive for COVID-19 during their stay will be required to self-isolate. Please see this website for further information.
Data collection
Completing and obtaining approval to travel to Aruba through the Embarkation/Disembarkation card online before arrival is a requirement for entry to Aruba.
The Public Health authorities of Aruba also advise you to download Aruba’s Health App on your smart phone prior to your travel. This is to assist you and inform you on COVID-19 measures and instructions in Aruba. For more information on the Aruba Health App see here.
Regular entry requirements
Visas
British passport holders do not need a visa for stays of up to 3 months. For further information about entry requirements, contact the Embassy of the Kingdom of the Netherlands.
Further information on visa requirements can be found at the Netherlands and You website.
Passport validity
Your passport should be valid for the duration of your stay in Aruba. You will be permitted entry as long as your passport does not expire before the end of your stay.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are accepted for entry, airside transit and exit from Aruba.
