

Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.    
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Aruba
Although there is no recent history of terrorism in Aruba, attacks cannot be ruled out.
Crime
Protecting your belongings
There is a risk of petty theft and there are occasionally incidents of street crime.
To reduce the risk to yourself and your belongings:
avoid walking in remote areas at night
do not take valuables or cash to the beach
do not leave bags in your vehicle
make sure purses and bags are closed and not easy to grab
Drug-related crime
Aruba is used as a drug passageway from South America to Europe and North America. There can be drug-related violent crime.
Laws and cultural differences
Personal ID
It’s a legal requirement to carry ID. Always keep a copy of your passport with you.
Illegal drugs
There are severe penalties for all drug offences. Do not leave bags unattended or agree to carry a package for anyone.
Transport risks
Road travel
If you’re planning to drive in Aruba, see information on driving abroad.
You’ll need to have both the correct version of the international driving permit (IDP) and your UK driving licence with you in the car.
Hire car companies often have stricter requirements for their customers, such as 2 years of driving experience, a higher minimum age and holding an IDP.
Drink-driving is a serious offence in Aruba. If you are tested and found to have just over half of England’s legal limit of alcohol in your system, you may get a fine and possible imprisonment.
Taxis
Taxis are not metered. To avoid being overcharged, agree the fare in local currency with the driver before you set off. Only use licensed taxis.
Extreme weather and natural disasters
See extreme weather and natural hazards for information about how to prepare, and how to react if there is a warning.  
Hurricanes
The hurricane season in the Caribbean normally runs from June to November. Most hurricanes pass to the north of Aruba, which has no record of a recent major hurricane. There are occasional tropical storms.
Monitor local news and check the World Meteorological Organization weather reports for Curaçao and St Maarten and US National Hurricane Center.
