If you are returning to the UK from Aruba on or after 4am on 28 November, you do not need to self-isolate on your return. Check the latest guidance for England, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales.
Travel to Aruba is subject to entry restrictions
You must get approval to travel to Aruba through the Embarkation/Disembarkation card online before arrival
You will need to provide a negative COVID-19 test result within 72 hours of departure for Aruba or on arrival in Aruba (the latter requires a mandatory 24 hour quarantine).
See Entry requirements for more information before you plan to travel.
Preparing for your return journey to the UK
If you’re returning to the UK from overseas, you will need to:
provide your journey and contact details before you travel
check if you need to self-isolate on your return
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
If you’re planning travel to Aruba, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCDO’s guidance on foreign travel insurance.
The Venezuelan authorities have closed the borders with Aruba, Bonaire and Curaçao. There is currently no air or sea traffic between Aruba and Venezuela. If you’re planning to travel on these routes, contact your tour operator for further advice.
The hurricane season in the Caribbean runs from June to November. You should monitor local and international weather updates from the US National Hurricane Center and follow the advice of local authorities, including any evacuation orders. See Natural disasters
UK health authorities have classified Aruba as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For more information and advice, visit the website of the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
Aruba is used as a drug passageway from South America to Europe and North America. Do not leave bags unattended or agree to carry a package for anyone. See Crime
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Aruba, attacks can’t be ruled out. See Terrorism
Consular support may be limited in Aruba. However, the British Consulate General Amsterdam in the Netherlands can provide consular support to British nationals.
If you need to contact the emergency services, call 100 (police), 911 (ambulance and fire) or 913 (coastguard).
