Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Kazakhstan on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
You should contact local authorities for information on testing facilities (available in Russian only).
International travel
Commercial flights to and from Kazakhstan are operating as normal.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Kazakhstan.
Returning to the UK
Travelling from and returning to the UK
Check what you must do to travel abroad and return to England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
If you plan to pass through another country to return to the UK, check the travel advice for the country you’re transiting.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Kazakhstan
There are occasionally local restrictions in place. Breaches of regulations can result in fines or eventually imprisonment.
Accommodation
Hotels are now mostly open as normal.
Public places and services
Almost all COVID-19 restrictions have been lifted, other than in medical facilities, where face coverings should continue to be worn.
Healthcare in Kazakhstan
As advised by local authorities anyone who has symptoms similar to COVID-19 should not go to the hospital, instead you should call the ambulance 103 or the hospital you’re registered with clearly explaining the symptoms. In most parts of the country COVID-19 infected patients are not hospitalised unless severe danger to health.
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Kazakhstan
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Kazakhstan
We will update this page when the Government of Kazakhstan announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Kazakhstan national vaccine programme started in February 2021 and is using the Sputnik V, Qazvac, Coronavac, Sinopharm Beijing and Hayat vaccines. Pfizer has also recently been made available for all residents. The Government of Kazakhstan has stated that British nationals resident, or remaining in Kazakhstan for more than three months are eligible for vaccination if they choose to join the programme. Further information on the vaccination programme is available on the Government of Kazakhstan Ministry of Health website
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad page. Kazakhstan recognises UK certificates of vaccination.
If you’re a British national living in Kazakhstan, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
