This page has information on travelling to Kazakhstan. Check what you must do to return to the UK.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport from the UK, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Kazakhstan set and enforce entry rules.
All travellers
UK nationals no longer need a visa to enter Kazakhstan. But this could change at short notice if the COVID-19 situation changes.
You will need to provide details of where you are staying in Kazakhstan and confirm you will abide by all coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re fully vaccinated
If you’re fully vaccinated, you can enter Kazakhstan without needing to test or quarantine.
Proof of vaccination status
You must present proof that you have been fully vaccinated to enter Kazakhstan.
Kazakhstan will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 vaccination record. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status. If you are vaccinated in Kazakhstan and are using a Kazakh vaccination passport for entry your last dose (or booster) must be within the last six months; this does not apply to those who received their vaccinations in the UK.
If you’re not fully vaccinated
If you’re not fully vaccinated, you will need a negative PCR test to enter or travel through Kazakhstan. The PCR certificate must be issued within three days prior to arrival in Kazakhstan.
If you’re travelling from the UK, you do not need to quarantine when arriving in Kazakhstan, if you have a negative PCR test certificate.
Travellers entering Kazakhstan who test positive for coronavirus currently need to self-isolate for 10 days. Those needing medical assistance may be confined in state facilities.
If you need further information about entry requirements, contact the local immigration authorities or the nearest Kazakh embassy. You should also check with your airline or travel company for the latest information.
If you’ve had COVID-19 in the past year
If you’re not fully vaccinated but have tested positive for COVID-19 in the last year you can enter Kazakhstan, but still require a PCR test prior to entry.
Children and young people
Children under 5 do not need a PCR test to enter Kazakhstan.
If you’re transiting through Kazakhstan
Transiting is when you pass through one country on the way to your final destination.
Transiting through Kazakhstan is permitted for travellers who meet the requirements of their final destination.
If you are transiting through Kazakhstan on your way to another country and will be passing through immigration (sometimes known as a layover), for example to stay in a hotel for a flight the next day, you need to follow normal entry procedures
Further information about transiting through Kazakhstan can be found on the Kazakhstan Embassy or MFA website.
Exemptions
Children under 5 are exempted from the requirement to present a negative PCR test on arrival. Some official government delegations are exempt from PCR testing requirements.
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
Visas
You can stay in Kazakhstan without a visa for up to 30 calendar days. A number of visits is unlimited, but a total period of stay without a visa should not exceed 90 calendar days within a 180-day period.
You should contact your nearest Kazakh Embassy for further information.
If you do need a visa, make sure you have the right visa for the purpose of your travel, especially for business visas or work permits. Check the validity dates of your visa and any associated restrictions carefully before you travel.
Registration
Since 10 January 2020, it has been the responsibility of the host person or hotel to notify immigration authorities of a foreigner’s arrival. This should be made within three working days from the date of the guest’s arrival in country and can be done online on the Visa and Migration portal or in writing to the Migration Service.
Passport validity
Your passport should be valid for a minimum period of three months beyond the expiry date of your visa. Your passport should also have at least 1 blank page for your visa.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are accepted for entry (together with a valid visa), airside transit and exit from Kazakhstan. If using an ETD to leave Kazakhstan, you may need to get an exit visa from the Migration Service (formerly the OVIR). This process can take five working days or longer. Check with the Migration Service for more information before confirming your travel plans.
Dual nationality
Dual nationality is not recognised in Kazakhstan. If you enter Kazakhstan on a Kazakh passport and also hold British nationality the British Embassy can only provide very limited consular assistance. In cases of arrest or detention, consular access is unlikely to be granted.
Customs
The Government of Kazakhstan imposes limits on how much foreign currency can be imported or exported, and certain goods are subject to custom regulations. For further information please visit the website of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
Returning to the UK
You may be screened by having your temperature taken and assessed for other coronavirus symptoms on departure from Kazakhstan.
Check what you must do to return to the UK.
