

If you have a health condition, or you are pregnant, you may need specialist healthcare abroad. Check whether your destination country can provide the healthcare you may need and ensure you have appropriate travel insurance for unexpected medical evacuation or local treatment.
See the Coronavirus travel health and Healthcare sections in the Coronavirus page for COVID-19 health information.
At least eight weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or bought in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Healthcare
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 103 and ask for an ambulance, although the emergency services operators only speak Kazakh or Russian and waiting times for ambulances can be lengthy. If possible it is often quicker to take a taxi to the hospital. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you’re referred to a medical facility for treatment.
There is no reciprocal healthcare agreement between the UK and Kazakhstan.
The medical facilities in Kazakhstan are not as advanced as those in the UK. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad, evacuation by air ambulance and repatriation.
It is not common for medical personnel in Kazakhstan to speak English. View guidance on medical facilities in Kazakhstan for a list of English-speaking doctors.
Pharmacies and chemists are widely available in Kazakhstan and some remain open 24/7. They are often marked by a red or green cross.
Basic medications (aspirin etc.) are available without a prescription. For prescription medication you will need to present a valid prescription either from a local doctor or your doctor in the UK. Pharmacies will often accept prescriptions from the UK. You may need to get your UK prescription translated into Russian or Kazakh. Make sure you have adequate medication to cover your trip.
Some prescription medicines used in the UK are not widely available in Kazakhstan. Your local doctor or pharmacy is best placed to advise on availability of specific medications. Medications are often supplied under different brand names in Kazakhstan so it is important to ask for the generic name of the relevant drug. If your prescription medication is not available locally, it may be possible to get supplies couriered from abroad through some private clinics.
Health risks
There are regular outbreaks of haemorrhagic fever (a tick-borne disease) in southern Kazakhstan in spring and summer, which have caused deaths.
There are reports of lead pollution in the southern city of Shymkent and immediately surrounding areas.
