Coronavirus guidance is being updated.
Read what you can and cannot do

There are currently some flights to Europe (but not the UK) from West Kazakhstan (Atyrau/Uralsk) on Air Astana. There is also a flight from Almaty, via Nur-Sultan, to Frankfurt on 11 May. Please check their website for details.
There are extremely limited other commercial options available to return to the UK from Kazakhstan, due to border closures to help combat the coronavirus outbreak.
We know this is concerning for British people trying to leave Kazakhstan. The UK government is working closely with airlines, the Kazakh authorities and other governments to make sure options are available for you to return to the UK as soon as possible.
What to do
If you cannot leave Kazakhstan at this time, you should:
follow the advice of local authorities, including local measures to help minimise your risk of exposure to coronavirus
find accommodation that’s suitable for your needs
keep in regular contact with family and friends at home, so they know you are safe and well
See more information and advice about staying where you are if you cannot return to the UK.
Future travel options
The UK government is working closely with airlines, the Kazakh authorities and other governments to make sure options are available for you to return to the UK as soon as possible.
Flights to various destinations may be announced at short notice and we recommend travellers contact individual airlines to see what routes they may be operating.
This travel advice will be updated when departure options become available.
Please follow the British Embassy on Twitter and Facebook.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British Embassy 24/7 number on +7 (7172) 556 200 or the FCO in London on (+44) (0) 207 008 1500.
The Embassy cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone. This page will be updated when departure options become available.
Your journey home
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Further information
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
