

Terrorism 
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times. 
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Kazakhstan
Terrorist attacks in Kazakhstan cannot be ruled out.
Attacks could be indiscriminate, including in places visited by foreign nationals. Be alert for any security related announcements by the Kazakh authorities.
Protests and demonstrations
Public demonstrations are only permitted when authorised by the Kazakh authorities in advance. Occasional unauthorised small-scale public protests take place. This may put participants at risk of arrest. Avoid any demonstrations or political gatherings. If you become aware of any nearby violence or disturbance, leave the area immediately.
Crime
Robbery and violent crime
There have been violent thefts in expatriate communities in Atyrau and Aktau in western Kazakhstan and in Astana and Almaty. They happen mainly at night in and around local nightclubs and bars or when arriving home late at night. Robberies are uncommon in cities and rural areas but do happen.
Avoid walking alone at night and pre-arrange your transport. Do not use unofficial taxis or a taxi already occupied by a passenger.
Protecting your belongings
Pickpocketing is very common in crowded places such as markets and on public transport. Criminals may target foreigners as they are assumed to be carrying valuable items. Keep valuables in a safe place and out of public view.
Thieves may target luggage on trains. Always lock your railway compartment on an overnight train.
Scams 
Beware of internet scams. Scammers may target you on dating apps or on visa-related websites.
Make sure you know the arrangements for being met at the airport, and make sure the person is who they say they are. 
Bank card fraud
Fraudsters can steal your card details without you noticing. Use ATMs inside banks if possible, and check ATMs on the street for signs of tampering. Keep cards in sight when paying in shops and restaurants. Read more about how to avoid bank card fraud.
Drink spiking and sexual assault 
Drink spiking is a risk in nightclubs and bars and can lead to sexual assault. Alcohol and drugs can reduce your vigilance, making you less in control.
Avoid splitting up from your friends, do not leave drinks unattended and do not go off with people you do not know. Save the location of your accommodation on your maps app, so it’s easy to find. See TravelAware ‘Stick with your mates’ for tips and advice.
Laws and cultural differences
Kazakhstan has a secular constitution. (A secular state claims to treat all its citizens equally regardless of religion.) You should respect local traditions, customs, laws and religions.
Personal ID
Carry original ID such as your driving licence or passport at all times. Police patrolling the streets may ask for your ID, and copies are not acceptable. You need to show your original ID to enter state buildings.
Ramadan 
Ramadan is a holy month for Muslims. The dates vary by year and country. Cafés and restaurants may amend their menus and be busy around fast-breaking (‘Iftar’). Areas around mosques are also likely to be busy around prayer times. Take particular care not to offend religious sensitivities at this time.
Alcohol laws and bans 
Shops are not allowed to sell alcohol between 11pm and 8am. Alcoholic drinks which have an alcohol content level of more than 30% cannot be sold in shops between 9pm and 12 noon. Bars, restaurants and cafés are not covered by this rule.
If police find you drinking alcohol in the street, or if you appear to be drunk, they can take you to a police station and issue you with a fine or detain you in a police cell overnight.
Smoking and e-cigarette bans 
Smoking and vaping are illegal in and near to:
schools and playgrounds
healthcare facilities
public places – museums, libraries, cinemas, sport centres, public transport, nightclubs, airports, rail stations and underpasses
cars with children travelling
The fine for smoking in an unauthorised place is around £90, and more if it’s a repeat offence. 
It is illegal to sell, distribute, import or produce smokeless cigarettes, e-cigarettes (vapes), or e-liquid for e-cigarettes. You could get a fine or a prison sentence of up to 2 years.
Illegal drugs and prison sentences
If you possess or use illegal drugs, you could face a lengthy prison sentence:
for possession, manufacturing of drugs with distribution purposes – 5 to 10 years
for possession, manufacturing of drug with distribution purposes in large amounts – 6 to 12 years
for advertising drugs – fine or up to 3 years in prison
Prison conditions are basic.
Posting on social media
It’s illegal to post images or comments on social media that show disrespect towards religion, culture or national symbols. Take particular care with images that show the Kazakh flag. If you share or publish images that the authorities consider to be insulting, you could get a fine or a prison sentence.
Taking photos in secure areas
You could start problems with local officials if you take photos or videos of or near military sites, border areas, airports and some official buildings. There may not be any signs warning about these restrictions.
Some large shops and supermarkets do not allow photography.
Using drones in Kazakhstan
You can bring a drone to Kazakhstan without a licence. However, you risk a fine, detention and the confiscation of your drone if you operate a drone without a licence.
Apply for a drone licence from the Civil Aviation Committee. You should include technical characteristics of the drone and details of planned use (when, where and how long). See local regulations on drone licensing requirements (in Russian).
LGBT+ travellers
Although same-sex sexual activity is not illegal, same-sex relationships are often not tolerated, especially outside of the major cities.
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Wildlife, animal products and souvenirs 
You are not allowed to export:
art or antiques that have historical, cultural or scientific value
gold, precious stones or rare minerals
rare specimens of flora or animals
Take local expert advice before making any such purchase.
Transport risks
Road travel
If you are planning to drive in Kazakhstan, see information on driving abroad and Kazakhstan’s rules of the road (in Russian).
You need a 1968 international driving permit (IDP) as well as your UK licence to drive in Kazakhstan. You cannot buy an IDP outside the UK, so get one before you travel. Check if you need a UK sticker to drive your car outside the UK.
The minimum legal age for driving is 16 for motorbikes and 18 for cars.
Hire car companies often have stricter requirements for their customers, such as a year of driving experience, a higher minimum age and holding an IDP.
Road conditions
Driving standards can be erratic. Many cars are not safely maintained and do not have rear seatbelts.
Many roads are poorly maintained. Roadworks and damaged roads are often not signposted. In remote rural areas, there are often stray animals on the roads. In winter, roads can be hazardous due to snow or ice.
Service stations are limited outside the main cities. Take all that you need for your journey, including fuel and water. Make sure your vehicle is properly maintained and in a good condition for long journeys.
If traffic police stop you for a traffic offence, they should give you an official paper. 
Closed areas
The following areas are closed to visitors unless you have received prior permission from the Foreign Ministry, the Interior Ministry and the Kazakh National Security Committee:
Gvardeyskiy village in the Almaty region of south-eastern Kazakhstan
the town of Baikonur
the districts of Karmakchi and Kazalinsk in the southern Kyzylorda region
Border crossings
Officials may close border crossing points at short notice.
Extreme weather and natural disasters
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards. 
Wildfires 
Wildfires affected forests in east Kazakhstan in 2023. Regions in the Kazakh steppe can also be affected by grass fires. Take local advice.
Flooding and mudslides
Widespread flooding affected much of northern and western Kazakhstan in April 2024. Take local advice about road closures and transport disruption caused by flooding.
Mudslides and landslides can occur in the mountain areas of south-east Kazakhstan.
Earthquakes 
Kazakhstan has several areas which are at high risk of earthquakes. Almaty is in an active seismic zone. The last major earthquake involving loss of life was in 1927. The US Federal Emergency Management Agency has advice about what to do before, during and after an earthquake.
