The FCDO advise against all but essential travel to parts of the country.

The Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO) advises against all but essential travel to Almaty
COVID-19 entry restrictions for Kazakhstan
Before you travel, check the ‘Entry requirements’ section for Kazakhstan’s current entry restrictions and requirements. These may change with little warning. Monitor this advice for the latest updates and stay in contact with your travel provider.
Travelling from and returning to the UK
Check what you must do to travel abroad and return to England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
If you plan to pass through another country to return to the UK, check the travel advice for the country you’re transiting. If you will pass through a red list country, book your hotel quarantine package before travelling to the UK.
Protests in all main cities have led to a nationwide State of Emergency being declared with a curfew in place from 11pm to 7am. This may be extended at short notice. On 4 January 2022, protests became increasingly violent, particularly in Almaty where we advise against all but essential travel. Entry to and exit from Almaty is currently difficult, but some trains are now operating to the capital and other parts of Kazakhstan (though timetables may change at short notice). Other cities in the south may also difficult to access at short notice due to check-points and curfews.
If you are in Almaty, you should stay away from areas where there is a risk that you could get caught up in incidents of unrest. See Safety and security
Travellers can track the status of their flights by calling +7 7172 798213; +7 7172 798214; +7 7172 798215 and +7 7172 798229
If you’re planning travel to Kazakhstan, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCDO guidance on foreign travel insurance.
For information about COVID-19 vaccines, see the Coronavirus page.
Most visits to Kazakhstan are trouble-free, but crime against foreigners does sometimes occur. See Crime
Visas for UK Nationals are no longer needed to enter Kazakhstan. See Visas
You must carry your original passport at all times. See Local laws and customs 
Terrorist attacks in Kazakhstan cannot be ruled out. See Terrorism
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.
The Overseas Business Risk service offers information and advice for British companies operating overseas on how to manage political, economic, and business security-related risks.
