Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Madagascar on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
On 22 October 2020, Madagascar’s Civil Aviation Authority imposed restrictions on travel to Madagascar from a number of countries, including the UK. These restrictions were extended on 16 January 2021. If you’re planning to travel to Madagascar you should contact your tour operator or airline for further advice.
There are few commercial transport options available between the UK and Madagascar. Entry into Madagascar from overseas is currently not allowed, with some limited exemptions. International passenger flights to Madagascar are suspended, including private flights. Tourist flights to/from Nosy Be have been suspended since 27 March. An exception is that Air France are operating weekly repatriation flights from Antananarivo to Paris, from where there are onward connections to the UK. If you are interested in buying a ticket, you should contact Air France: https://www.airfrance.co.uk/GB/en/local/transverse/footer/centre-relation-clients.htm; or by phone at: +261 20 23 230 23.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Madagascar.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you will be notified within 72 hours of your test and you will be expected to self-isolate for 14 days in your hotel or private accommodation. The local health authorities may phone daily to check on your welfare and provide any medications required. If you develop serious symptoms, you may be referred to the designated COVID-19 clinic in Antananarivo for treatment.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Madagascar
You should comply with any additional screening measures put in place by the authorities, including at city checkpoints and Ivato International Airport. A COVID-19 antigen test is required to be taken at the airport before departure on domestic flights.
Accommodation
Some hotel and guesthouse accommodation remains open, although many businesses catering to tourists are operating with limited capacity. You should contact your accommodation provider for more information.
Public spaces and services
On 3 April 2021, the Government of Madagascar declared a national Health State of Emergency. On 8 August the State of Emergency was extended for a further 15 days. It is mandatory to wear a face mask in all public places, including in shops, parks and streets. Indoor gatherings are restricted to 400 people, although there is no restriction on outdoor gatherings.
Healthcare in Madagascar
For contact details of English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
If you think you have COVID-19 symptoms, you should attend your nearest health centre.
There is also a local helpline for medical advice if you have COVID-19 symptoms. This is available by dialling 914. English language support may be limited.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Madagascar.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Madagascar
Wherever possible British nationals should aim to be vaccinated in the country where they live. We will update this page when the Government of Madagascar announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Madagascan national vaccination programme started in May 2021 and is using the AstraZeneca and Janssen (Johnson and Johnson) vaccines. British nationals resident in Madagascar are eligible for vaccination under the national programme.
The first round of Madagascar’s national vaccination programme using the AstraZeneca vaccine closed on 17 June. The second dose programme is now available in Antananarivo and other regions of the country in many different medical centres (hospitals and CSB). If you received a first dose of the AstraZeneca vaccine in the first round, you will be able to attend a vaccination clinic for your second dose without the need to register again. Do take your ID and vaccination card with you.
If you have not yet received a vaccination and you are in one of the following priority groups, you can now register for a Janssen (Johnson & Johnson) single dose vaccination: health workers, social workers, law enforcement, persons with a chronic illness, and persons with a proven need to travel overseas for work or study. You can register online at the Ministry of Public Health website (website is in French) or in person at your local neighbourhood health centre.
You can call free on 910 for information on the vaccination programme (English language support may not be available).
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in Madagascar, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
Keep up to date with information from your tour operator, transport or accommodation provider about the impact of COVID-19 regulations on any existing travel plans.
If you hold a tourist visa that will expire before you are able to leave Madagascar because of coronavirus restrictions, you can apply to the Malagasy immigration authorities for a free certificate authorising you to remain until the suspension of international flights is lifted. You should contact your nearest immigration or PAF (Police de l’Air et des Frontières) office.
