

This page has information on travelling to Madagascar.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport from the UK, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Madagascar set and enforce entry rules. If you’re unsure how Madagascar’s entry requirements apply to you, contact its UK embassy, high commission or consulate.
All travellers
On 11 August 2022, the Malagasy government lifted all COVID-19 health restrictions for travellers to Madagascar. Pre-departure PCR tests and testing on arrival are no longer required for entry to Madagascar. Proof of vaccination status is not required for entry. Further details and travel alerts can be found on the Madagascar Tourism website.
You will need a non-immigrant visa to enter or travel through Madagascar as a short term visitor for stays over 15 days, or an immigrant visa for stays over 90 days.
See Visas section for more information.
If you’re fully vaccinated
Entry requirements for Madagascar are the same for all travellers, regardless of COVID-19 vaccination status. See All travellers.
Proof of vaccination status
Proof of vaccination status is not required for entry to Madagascar or for access to local services.
You cannot use the UK COVID Pass to demonstrate your vaccination record when entering Madagascar.
If you’re not fully vaccinated
Entry requirements for Madagascar are the same for all travellers, regardless of COVID-19 vaccination status. See All travellers.
If you’ve had COVID-19 in the past year
There are no special entry requirements if you have had COVID-19 in the past year.
Children and young people
There are no exemptions or special COVID-19 requirements for children.
If you’re transiting through Madagascar
There are no COVID-19 health requirements for transit through Madagascar. For specific questions on transit requirements, you should contact the nearest Embassy of Madagascar (in the UK, this is the Madagascar Embassy in London).
Exemptions
There are no exemptions to Madagascar’s entry requirements.
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
Passport validity
If you are visiting Madagascar, your passport should be valid for 6 months from the date you arrive, and with at least 2 blank visa pages. You should be able to show confirmation of your travel dates.
Check with your travel provider to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Visas
If you are visiting Madagascar for less than 15 days, there is no visa requirement. However, travellers must pay a 10 Euro administrative fee on arrival.
You can buy a 30 or 60 day single entry tourist visa on arrival at the airport in cash using US$, Euros, or Malagasy Ariary. Up to date information on visa fees is available on the Ministry of Tourism website.
You can also apply in advance of travel to the Madagascar Embassy in London for a tourist or immigrant visa.
You will be asked for evidence of onward or return travel at check-in and on arrival in Madagascar.
Make sure an entry stamp is recorded in your passport, and that your visa is valid for the period and purpose of your journey. A tourist visa can be extended during your stay in Madagascar up to a total stay of 90 days. Overstaying may lead to detention and deportation.
Travelling with children
Children already in possession of a visa don’t need further parental approval to enter Madagascar. A parent leaving Madagascar alone with a child must carry written authorisation from the absent parent.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
