At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Coronavirus
There are currently no confirmed cases of coronavirus (COVID-19) in Madagascar. The Malagasy authorities have introduced a number of precautionary measures in response to the coronavirus pandemic, including screening at airports and mandatory quarantine or self-isolation of 14 days if passengers exhibit signs of having contracted coronavirus or have travelled in affected areas.
All air-travellers arriving on direct flights from high-risk countries, including from France, will be required to spend 14 days in quarantine or self-isolation on arrival in Madagascar. This is in addition to existing measures that deny entry to travellers that have been in China, Italy, South Korea and Iran within the 14 days prior to arriving in Madagascar.
Direct flights between Madagascar and France, as well as direct flights with the French départements of Réunion and Mayotte, will be suspended from 20 March. From then all air-travellers on indirect flights but originating from high-risk countries will be denied entry to Madagascar.
Cruise ships will not be permitted to berth in Madagascar’s ports for 30 days from 15 March.
From 15 March all international flights, regardless of origin, have to land at Ivato airport in the capital, Antananarivo, and are no longer allowed to fly direct to regional Malagasy airports .
You should check Travel Advice (South Africa, Ethiopia, Mauritius and Kenya) for information regarding flights to local hubs such as Johannesburg, Addis Ababa, Mauritius and Nairobi.
You should comply with any additional screening measures put in place by the authorities.
Keep up to date with information from your tour operator, transport or accommodation provider on the impact on any existing travel plans.
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
Other health risks
Outbreaks of plague tend to be seasonal and occur mainly during the rainy season, with around 500 cases reported annually. Whilst outbreaks are not uncommon in rural areas, the latest outbreak in 2017, saw seen an increase in reported cases in urban areas, including Antananarivo. The Ministry of Health of Madagascar officially announced the containment of this outbreak on 27 November 2017.
209 deaths were recorded, with none related to international travel. Further outbreaks cannot be ruled out. You can find further information and advice in the ‘Outbreaks’ section of the TravelHealthPro page for Madagascar.
You should drink or use only boiled or bottled water and avoid ice in drinks.
High levels of syphilis have been recorded.
Local medical care
Although there are public and private hospitals in Antananarivo, they can only handle routine operations. Complex surgery requires evacuation either to Mauritius, South Africa or La Reunion. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 17 (117 from mobile phone) or +261 20 22 357 53 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
