Coronavirus guidance is being updated.
Read what you can and cannot do

There are currently no commercial options available to return to the UK from Madagascar. All international and regional flights to and from Madagascar are currently suspended.
We know this is concerning for British nationals trying to leave Madagascar. The UK government is working closely with airlines, the Malagasy authorities and other governments to explore options for British nationals to return to the UK as soon as possible.
Cruise ships are not currently permitted to berth in Madagascar’s ports.
What to do
If you cannot leave Madagascar at this time, you should:
Follow the advice of local authorities, including local measures to help minimise your risk of exposure to coronavirus.
Find accommodation that is suitable for your needs.
Keep in regular contact with families and friends at home, so they know you are safe and well.
See more information and advice about staying where you are if you cannot return to the UK.
Future travel options
This travel advice will be updated when departure options become available.
Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British Embassy on Twitterand Facebook.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
See more information and advice about staying where you are if you cannot return to the UK.
Arrival back in the UK
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British Embassy on +261 (0) 2022 330533.
The Embassy cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone. This page will be updated when departure options become available. To get the latest information, sign up for travel advice email alerts.
Further Information
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
