This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Madagascar as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Madagascar to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Madagascar
On 21 March, the Government of Madagascar declared a Health State of Emergency. Restrictions were introduced including the closure of all schools and universities, administrative offices, churches, event spaces, bars and restaurants. All sporting fixtures and cultural events were cancelled.
The Health State of Emergency has been renewed until 15 June. Businesses may open until 3 pm daily. Public transport runs until 5 pm. Passenger numbers in vehicles remain limited (3 in a taxi, 18 in a taxi-be). Gatherings of up to 50 people are permitted. Sanitary checks are in place at exit points from Antananarivo and other major cities.
A curfew is in place from 9pm to 4am. It is mandatory to wear a face mask when outdoors.
You should comply with any additional screening measures put in place by the authorities.
For information on entering Madagascar, see Entry requirements.
Visas
If you hold a tourist visa that will expire before you are able to leave Madagascar because of coronavirus restrictions, you can apply to the Malagasy immigration authorities for a free certificate authorising you to remain until the suspension of international flights is lifted. You should contact your nearest immigration or PAF (Police de l’Air et des Frontières) office.
Health
For contact details of English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Madagascar.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Madagascar, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, you should contact your local British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephones numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
Keep up to date with information from your tour operator, transport or accommodation provider on the impact on any existing travel plans.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
