Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Mali on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
On 3 July, the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) announced the reopening of land and air borders between Mali and ECOWAS countries (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cabo Verde, Côte D’Ivoire, The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea Bissau, Liberia, Niger, Nigeria, Senegal, Sierra Leone and Togo), which had been closed since January. Whilst direct flights have resumed on some of these routes, others have not due to operational capacity issues. You should check with your airline before travelling.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Mali.
Returning to the UK
Travelling from and returning to the UK
Check what you must do to travel abroad and return to England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
If you plan to pass through another country to return to the UK, check the travel advice for the country you’re transiting.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Mali
On 3 July, the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) announced the reopening of land and air borders between Mali and ECOWAS countries (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cabo Verde, Côte D’Ivoire, The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea Bissau, Liberia, Niger, Nigeria, Senegal, Sierra Leone and Togo), which had been closed since January.
Accommodation
Hotels are open.
Public spaces and services
You should check the Ministry of Health’s website for the latest information on measures to prevent the spread of coronavirus.
Healthcare in Mali
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
You can get a COVID-19 test, including if required for departing from Mali, at a cost of 35,000 CFA at L’Institut National de Santé Publique (INSP), Hippodrome Route de Koulikoro, Rue 235 Porte 52, Commune I, BP 1771. Telephone : +223 20 21 42 31; +223 20 21 43 20 . INSP is open for testing from 0730 – 1400 every day. Collection time for the results certificate is from 1500-1630 every day.
Some private hospitals are also offering testing.
If you have any questions concerning coronavirus in Mali, the government of Mali has a hotline you can call on 36061.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Mali.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Mali
Wherever possible British nationals should aim to be vaccinated in the country where they live. We will update this page when the Government of Mali announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Mali national vaccination programme started in April 2021 and is using the AstraZeneca, Sinovac and Janssen (Johnson and Johnson) vaccines. British nationals resident in Mali are eligible for vaccination. Further information on the vaccination programme is available on the Government of Mali’s Ministry of Health website.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in Mali, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
