This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Mali set and enforce entry rules. For further information contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to. You should also consider checking with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Entry rules in response to coronavirus (COVID-19)
Entry to Mali
You should check with your travel provider before going to the airport.
You need a visa to enter Mali. You can apply for single and multiple entry visas from the Embassy in Paris. There is no consulate in London.
Testing on arrival
To enter Mali you will either need to present a negative COVID test certificate less than 72 hours old or be tested on arrival at the airport. While waiting for the test results, you will either have to quarantine at home or in a hotel. If you test positive, you will be made to go to a government designated facility. Even if a negative test is presented on arrival but you show symptoms, you will be made to quarantine until a negative result is obtained.
You should not use the NHS testing service to get a test in order to facilitate your travel to another country. You should arrange to take a private test.
Quarantine requirements
If you do not present a negative test that is less than 72 hours old on arrival, you will be tested and will be made to quarantine at home or in a hotel while waiting for the test results. If you are showing symptoms, or test positive on arrival, you will be made to go to a government designated facility, until a negative result is obtained.
Testing on departure
You are required to present a negative COVID test certificate less than 72 hours old to exit Mali. It is likely that the Government will implement temperature checks on departure.
Regular entry requirements
Visas
British citizens need a visa to enter Mali, available from the nearest Malian Embassy or Consulate. There is a Malian Honorary Consulate in London.
Passport validity
Your passport should be valid for the proposed duration of your stay. No additional period of validity beyond this is required.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents are not valid for entry into, or transit through, Mali.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website. There are often checks in Bamako airport for evidence of Yellow Fever vaccination.
