Coronavirus
There is an ongoing outbreak of coronavirus (COVID-19) in China, but cases have been confirmed in other countries, including Burkina Faso. The Malian authorities have introduced a number of measures to limit the spread of the virus. We have been informed that, as part of their preparations to prevent an outbreak of coronavirus (COVID-19) in Mali, the Malian authorities have decided to suspend commercial flights from affected countries from Thursday 19 March.
Bamako International Airport has heightened screening measures in place for visitors arriving in Mali, including systematic temperature testing, issuing Government recommendations on self-isolation and individual and collective hygiene and a free hotline number. In addition, the Government has stated that:
Visitors with minor symptoms, who arrive in Mali with a fever (temperature above 37.5 degrees) from a country that is severely affected by COVID 19 will be put into self-isolation for 14 days and will receive daily check-ups from a medical team;
Visitors with major symptoms, who arrive in Mali with a fever (temperature above 37.5 degrees) and other signs and respiratory symptoms from a country that is severely affected by COVID 19 will be transported to an isolation site to be tested.
You should comply with any additional screening measures put in place by the authorities. Keep up to date with information from your tour operator, transport or accommodation provider on the impact on any existing travel plans.
If you need further information about entry requirements, contact the local immigration authorities or the nearest Mali embassy. You should also check with your airline or travel company for the latest information.
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
Medical facilities in Mali are very limited. Private hospitals include Polyclinique Internationale Bamako (Polyclinic Guindo) (Badalabougou Est rue 18 porte 19; telephone: (+223) 20 22 22 07; clinique@pib-mali.com) and Polyclinique Pasteur (Hamdallaye ACI 2000, Bamako BPE 4794; telephone: +223 20 29 10 10).
Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
Cholera, malaria and other tropical diseases are common to Mali. Outbreaks of meningitis also occur, usually from the end of February to mid-April. An outbreak of cholera was reported in late May 2013 near the Nigerien border with Gao province. See information on cholera.
You should drink or use only boiled or bottled water and avoid ice in drinks.
