Coronavirus guidance is being updated.
Read what you can and cannot do

You should check with your airline or travel company for the latest information.
The Foreign Office strongly recommends that if you normally live in the UK and are currently travelling abroad, whether working or on holiday, you should return now. International travel is becoming more difficult with the closure of borders and further restrictions, such as on freedom of movement, are being introduced daily.
There are currently no commercial flight options available to return to the UK from Mali. Mali’s borders and international airports remain closed until further notice. We know this is concerning for British nationals trying to leave Mali. However, Malian borders remain open to those departing on special charter, but there have to date been only a limited number of exceptional international flights (run by overseas government charter). We expect these to significantly reduce or stop in coming weeks. The British Government is not planning a commercial charter flight from Mali to the UK.
The British Government is working closely with the Malian authorities and these governments to explore permission for you to return to the UK on exceptional flights arranged by other countries. However this is not guaranteed. These flights may leave at short notice and you are likely to be asked to pay for your ticket. Any option to leave Mali should be taken seriously, and could be the last viable option to leave for some time. If you decide to stay now, it is highly likely there will be no options in the future to return, given the unprecedented conditions.
We urge all British nationals visiting Mali to plan to take any options available to them to depart.
What to do:
If you cannot leave Mali at this time, you should:
follow the advice of local authorities, including local measures to help minimise your risk of exposure to coronavirus.
find accommodation that’s suitable for your needs.
keep in regular contact with family and friends at home, so they know you are safe and well.
contact the British Embassy through our email address so we can ensure you are receiving the latest updates and information on potential departure options from Mali.
Visas
If you need to extend your stay in Mali due to coronavirus for another 90-day period, seek advice from the Malian Migration Office on +223 20 23 10 10
Future travel options
The British Government is working closely with the Malian authorities and other governments to explore options for British Nationals to return to the UK as soon as possible.
This travel advice will be updated if the situation changes. Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British Embassy on Facebook.
You will probably need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options become available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the British Government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Your journey home
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British Embassy on +223 44 97 69 13
The Embassy cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone. The British Embassy will contact you if departure options become available.
Further information
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
