!
Warning
FCDO advises against all travel to parts of Mali.

Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Mali
Terrorists are very likely to try and carry out attacks in Mali.
Several terrorist groups operate in Mali, including Jama’a Nusrat ul-Islam wa al-Muslimin (JNIM) and Islamic State Sahel Province (ISSP). Whilst the regions most affected by terrorist activity are central and northern Mali, JNIM has increasingly conducted attacks in southern Mali and retain the capacity to target the capital, Bamako.
The security situation in Mali has deteriorated amid an upsurge of terrorist attacks. Violence targeting civilians increased significantly in 2023, compared to 2022. At the request of the Transition Government of Mali, the UN peacekeeping mission has now withdrawn. This has created a more permissive operating space for terrorist groups across Mali.  
Attacks could be indiscriminate and occur at any time, including in places frequented by foreign nationals, such as:
military sites and institutions
government buildings
international institutions
transport hubs
embassies
religious sites and places of worship
sporting and cultural events
shopping centres and crowded places
hotels, restaurants and bars
national infrastructure
Take particular care during elections and public holidays, and periods of national or religious significance, such as Ramadan and Eid. Stay aware of your surroundings, keep up to date with local media reports and follow the advice of local authorities.  
Examples of recent significant attacks include:
in 2023, at least 40 Malian soldiers and Dozo hunters were killed in a militant attack in Farabougou village in the central Segou region
in 2023, militants perpetrated 3 attacks in the south-central regions of Segou and San resulting in a number of deaths and wounding others
in 2023, at least 10 people were killed during a raid on Allaye Kokollo village in central Mali by suspected militants
in 2023, a project worker for a humanitarian organisation, Action Against Hunger, was killed in Gao Region
in 2023, a roadside bomb killed 3 people and wounded 16 others in the Cercle de Bankass, in Mali’s central region of Bandiagara
in 2023, 37 UN peacekeepers were seriously injured by IEDs during their convoy’s journey from Kidal to Gao, as part of the UN peacekeepers’ withdrawal from Mali
in 2023, more than 60 people were killed in a suspected jihadist attack on a river boat near Abakoira in the north of Mali
from August 2023 to January 2024, JNIM repeatedly shelled Timbuktu, including the airport, resulting in the suspension of some flights
in 2022, there was an attack on the Kati military base, 15km from Bamako city centre, killing one soldier and 7 attackers
in 2022, terrorists attacked the villages of Diallassagou, Dianweli and Deguessagou, killing at least 132 civilians
This continues a historical trend of terrorists attacking military bases and personnel, sometimes including foreign military, often leading to the deaths of soldiers, civilians and others.
Terrorist kidnap
There is a very high threat of kidnapping by al-Qa’ida and Islamic State-aligned groups in Mali. JNIM and ISSP operate throughout Mali, Niger and Burkina Faso. JNIM, in particular, has previously conducted kidnappings from all parts of Mali, including in urban areas and in the capital, Bamako. The kidnap threat is most significant in northern and central Mali but is increasing in southern Mali.
If you are working or travelling in Mali, be aware of the very high threat of terrorist kidnapping. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times, including when travelling and in crowded public places, including camps for displaced people, religious gatherings and places of worship, markets, shopping areas and places frequented by westerners like hotels, bars, nightclubs, restaurants and transport hubs. Make sure you have carefully considered the threat and have security measures in place
British nationals are seen as legitimate targets, including tourists, humanitarian aid workers, journalists and business travellers. If you are kidnapped, the reason for your presence is unlikely to protect you or secure your safe release. 
The long-standing policy of the British government is to not make substantive concessions to hostage takers. The British government considers that paying ransoms and releasing prisoners builds the capability of terrorist groups and finances their activities. This can, in turn, increase the risk of further hostage-taking. The Terrorism Act (2000) makes payments to terrorists illegal.  
Political situation   
On 24 May 2021, the vice-president, Colonel Assimi Goïta, detained the transitional President Bah N’Daw and Prime Minister Moctar Ouane, along with other members of the transitional government. Goïta was sworn in as head of state in June 2021. Presidential elections, originally scheduled for February 2024, have been postponed.
Political unrest is an ongoing risk. Regular, large and at times violent protests have taken place in Bamako, with burning of tyres and clashes with the police. Police have responded with tear gas and small arms fire. Deaths and injuries have been reported.
Monitor local media and stay away from all large gatherings and political demonstrations. Avoid any blockades set up by the police and security forces. Keep several days’ stock of food and water in of case disturbances. You can monitor daily developments in English through the BBC World Service (88.9 FM in Bamako).   
Security incidents between and within communities continue in many parts of the country, most notably in Mopti and Segou regions. In some instances, terrorist groups have become involved in these conflicts. In March 2019, masked gunmen killed 160 villagers in a single attack in Ogossagou in central Mali. Groups operating in the centre, north and north-east sectors use landmines.
Crime
Personal safety
The level of violent crime is high, especially in the capital Bamako and southern regions. Be alert to the risk of street crime, armed robbery and kidnapping.
In the northern border areas, bandits and smugglers may attack travellers, especially after dark.
To reduce your personal risk:
do not walk alone at night
avoid isolated areas
take particular care when using ATMs
Keep copies of your passport’s photo page and your visa or entry stamp in a separate place from the original in case your passport is stolen. 
Vehicle crime
There have been incidents of carjacking and kidnap across the country. If you are travelling outside Bamako against FCDO advice, beware of the threat to your vehicle and get advice from a security company or personal sponsor. 
To reduce the risk of attacks:
take professional security advice before you travel
travel in pre-arranged transport with trusted operators
keep doors locked and windows shut while in the vehicle
Laws and cultural differences
Mali is a secular country, but the people are predominantly Muslim. The country’s laws and customs are very different to those in the UK. Respect local traditions, customs, laws and religions. Make sure your actions do not offend religious beliefs, especially during Ramadan or in religious areas.
French is the official language in Mali and not many officials or healthcare workers speak English. You may have difficulty communicating if you cannot speak any French. Make sure you can use translation apps in case of an emergency.
Personal ID
As a foreign national, you must carry ID such as a passport. You could face difficulties with security checks if you do not have the original document on you.     
Ramadan
Ramadan is a holy month for Muslims. The dates vary by year and country. In Mali, Ramadan starts on 11 March 2024 and ends on 9 April 2024. During this time, do not:
eat, drink, smoke or chew gum in public in the daytime, including in your car
play loud music or dance
swear in public
Get more advice when you arrive from your tour guide, hotel or business contacts.
You should also: 
check opening hours of shops and restaurants
be aware that if hotels and restaurants are providing food or drink in fasting hours, they may separate you from Islamic guests, for example with screens
follow local dress codes – clothing that does not meet local dress codes may cause more offence at this time
be aware that fasting can cause tiredness, particularly during the later afternoon and early evening
be patient and show tolerance
Using cameras
Do not take pictures of military or government installations. Always ask permission before taking photographs that include local people.  
LGBT+ travellers
Same-sex sexual activity is not illegal in Mali, but discrimination is widespread. Police may refuse to intervene. There have been arrests for ‘immoral behaviour’, and LGBT+ individuals have experienced physical, psychological, and sexual violence. The LGBT+ community in Bamako has experienced homophobic attacks and false arrest.   
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Transport risks
Road travel
If you are planning to drive in Mali, see information on driving abroad.
You can use a UK photocard driving licence to drive in Mali. If you still have a paper driving licence, you may need to update it to a photocard licence or get the 1949 version of the international driving permit (IDP) as well.
Police checkpoints are common throughout Bamako. Always keep vehicle and personal identification documents with you.
Approach security checkpoints slowly and follow instructions. There have been incidents late at night where people dressed as policemen have demanded money from drivers in Bamako. Ask to see identification and get a receipt for payment.      
Exercise caution and do not resist demands if you feel threatened or in danger.
Road conditions
Road conditions in Bamako are difficult during the rainy season from June to October. Roads outside Bamako are often damaged and dangerous. Other road users may drive unpredictably. There is a risk of landmines and other explosive devices on the roads in northern and eastern Mali.
Take all necessary safety precautions, especially outside of main urban areas, have confidence in your security arrangements and stay alert.
If you have an accident, go to the nearest police station to report it. If you stay at the scene of the accident, you may be vulnerable. Medical help after an accident is likely to be limited, especially outside of Bamako.
Air travel
Flights often change or are cancelled with little warning. The security at Bamako airport is heavy, and guards search your vehicle before you enter the airport. Scammers posing as taxi drivers and guides operate around the airport – only use pre-arranged transport.
Airports in Mali outside of Bamako are extremely dangerous. Terrorist groups have repeatedly shelled Timbuktu airport since August 2023. 
Extreme weather and natural disasters
The rainy season in Mali is from June to October. Heavy rains can cause floods and landslides. Monitor local weather reports and expect difficulties when travelling to affected areas during this season.
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards.
