Terrorists are very likely to try to carry out attacks in Mali, including in the capital Bamako. In July 2022 JNIM made public statements setting out their intention to conduct attacks in Bamako. A series of recent attacks in central and southern Mali, including at the Kati military camp just 15km from the centre of Bamako, demonstrate a deteriorating security situation and heightened risk of attacks in the capital. We advise you take extra care, especially if travelling at night and in places frequented by westerners.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Attacks could be indiscriminate and occur without warning. You should be especially vigilant and where possible avoid national or local government facilities, including those belonging to the defence and security forces, as these are likely to be targets. Places frequented by foreigners, including diplomatic premises, hotels, restaurants, bars, nightclubs, stadiums, concert halls, shopping areas, markets, national infrastructure, airports and other transport hubs, places of worship, businesses with western interests and non-governmental organisations are also likely to be targets of attack.
During public holidays and festivals, including New Year and Eid celebrations, security measures in Mali can be heightened due to the ongoing threat posed by terrorist organisations. During such periods you should exercise increased vigilance, limit your movements and continue to avoid large gatherings. If you think a particular venue would present a good target for terrorist activities then you should avoid it.
Large gatherings can also include music festivals, shows, concerts, sporting events and any public marches or demonstrations. The Festival au Désert in Timbuktu was cancelled in January 2017 and has not taken place since due to security concerns. Festivals in other parts of the country are also vulnerable to attack. There may be a heightened risk of attack during election periods and religious festivals including the month of Ramadan.
Terrorists are known to operate out of national parks and forest areas.
Notable attacks include:
On 22 July 2022, there was an attack on the Kati military base, 15km from Bamako city centre, killing one soldier. Seven attackers were also killed.
On 21 July 2022, there were six attacks across central and southern Mali targeting Malian armed forces targets, including Kolokani, Kono, Douentza, Bapho, Segou and Sévaré.
On 16 July 2022, terrorists attacked a security post at Zantiguila, approximately 70km from Bamako on the road to Segou, killing six.
On 18 June 2022, terrorists attacked the villages of Diallassagou, Dianweli and Deguessagou, killing at least 132 civilians.
On 22 January 2022, terrorists attacked the BARKHANE camp in Gao, resulting in the death of one French soldier.
On 2 April 2021, terrorists attacked the MINUSMA camp in Aguelhok, which resulted in the death of four peacekeepers.
On 15 March 2021, terrorists attacks a Malian Army security post in Tessit, killing 33 soldiers.
On 14 June 2020, terrorists attacked a Malian military convey approximately 160km north of Segou town, killing 24 soldiers.
On 6 April 2020, terrorists attacked a Malian military base in Bamba, Gao region, killing 25 soldiers.
On 26 January 2020, terrorists attacked a Malian military camp in Sokolo, Segou region, killing 20 soldiers.
On 24 February 2019, insurgents attacked the Koulikoro Training Centre, the main training base in Mali for the European Union Training Mission, approximately 55km northeast of Bamako. Four Malian military personnel were injured.
In June 2017, terrorists attacked Le Campement resort in Kangaba, on the outskirts of Bamako, which resulted in a number of deaths.
In March 2016, gunmen attacked the headquarters of the European Union Training Mission in the centre of Bamako.
In November 2015, terrorists attacked the Radisson Hotel in Bamako, killing a number of hostages including foreign nationals.
Following French/African military intervention in Mali in January 2013, there is a high threat of retaliatory kidnap or attack against western interests. There have been a number of bomb attacks in Gao, Kidal, Timbuktu and in Khalil in recent years. Methods of attack have included complex attacks by militants, vehicle ambushes, small arms fire and the use of improvised explosive devices (IEDs). Malian, MINUSMA (the UN Peacekeeping Mission in Mali) and international security forces are regularly targeted, particularly in the regions of Kidal, Mopti, Timbuktu, Gao and Menaka, and attacks are frequent.
The threat of terrorism is likely to continue as groups remain intent on demonstrating capability and increasing influence across the region. The threat to western interests in the region remains.
Kidnap
There is a very high threat of kidnapping by AQ-affiliated and other regional Islamist groups. These include Jamaat Nusrat al-Islam wal Muslimeen (JNIM) and Islamic State Sahel Province (ISSP). These groups operate throughout Mali, Niger and Burkina Faso. There is a risk of kidnap in all parts of the country. The kidnap threat is most significant in northern and central Mali, and increasingly in the south. There is a heightened threat of terrorist attacks and kidnaps targeting Westerners in Bamako and across southern Mali. We advise you take extra care, especially if travelling at night, and to vary your daily routine. Avoid walking around the city alone after dark. Westerners have been kidnapped in Mali, including in Kidal, Kayes, Timbuktu, Gao and Hombori, and the wider Sahel region.
Recent kidnap incidents include:
In May 2022, three Italian nationals and a Togolese national were kidnapped by armed men in Sincina, near the southern border with Burkina Faso
A French national was kidnapped from Gao in April 2021
Four hostages, including French and Italian nationals, were released in October 2020.
An Italian and Canadian national were kidnapped in December 2018 in Burkina Faso and were found alive by UN peacekeepers in March 2020 in northeast Mali after reportedly escaping.
In May 2019, two French tourists and their Beninese guide were kidnapped in northern Benin by an armed group. The guide was found dead and the hostages were later rescued in northern Burkina Faso whilst reportedly on their way to Mali
In January 2019, a Canadian citizen was kidnapped in northern Burkina Faso and subsequently found dead.
Several foreign nationals were kidnapped in from the northeastern region of neighbouring Burkina Faso in September 2018.
In February 2017 a Colombian nun was kidnapped in Sikasso region, in the south of Mali, and has since been released in October 2021
If you are working or travelling in Mali, you should be aware of the risk of terrorist kidnapping. You should maintain a high level of vigilance at all times, including when travelling and in crowded public places, including camps for displaced people, religious gatherings and insecure spaces like places of worship, markets, and shopping areas, and places frequented by westerners like hotels, bars, nightclubs, restaurants and transport hubs. You should vary your daily routine and avoid walking around the city alone after dark. You should make sure you have carefully considered the threat and have reasonable, proportionate mitigation measures in place.
British nationals are viewed as legitimate targets, including those engaged in tourism, humanitarian aid work, journalism or business sectors. If you are kidnapped, the reason for your presence is unlikely to serve as a protection or secure your safe release.
The long-standing policy of the British government is not to make substantive concessions to hostage takers. The British government considers that paying ransoms and releasing prisoners builds the capability of terrorist groups and finances their activities. This can, in turn, increase the risk of further hostage-taking. The Terrorism Act (2000) makes payments to terrorists illegal.
The terrorist threat in the Sahel
There are a number of terrorist groups active in the region. These include JNIM, Islamic State West Africa (ISWA), Islamic State Sahel Province (ISSP), Al Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb (AQIM), Al Murabitoun, Ansar Dine, Katiba Macina and Boko Haram. These groups are capable of carrying out attacks and kidnaps over long distances. Kidnapping for ransom is the primary source of finance for JNIM. Criminal gangs also carry out kidnapping for terrorist groups in return for financial rewards.
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. You should remain vigilant at all times.
