Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Sweden on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
Commercial flights to and from Sweden remain limited. Check with your travel company for the latest information.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements for details of the latest entry rules due to the COVID-19 pandemic and what you will need to do when you arrive in Sweden.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements. You should contact local authorities for information on testing facilities.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19 in Sweden you should follow the advice of the Swedish authorities.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Sweden
The Swedish government is not restricting domestic travel. However, there are temporary recommendations which include keeping your distance, avoiding public transport and crowded areas, check guidance for more information. Individuals without symptoms are urged to continue to follow the Public Health Agency’s advice and restrictions related to COVID-19.
The Swedish Public Health Agency advises that it is important for everyone to maintain physical distance from other people, both while travelling and at the destination. Public transport is in operation, but frequency and capacity may be limited. The Swedish Public Health agency recommends face masks on public transport during peak hours (on weekdays between 07.00–09.00 and 16.00–18.00).
Public spaces and services
There has been a widespread increase in the number of COVID-19 cases in Sweden. National local recommendations are in place, check guidance for more information.
There are also legal restrictions on the number of people allowed in premises and to attend events and public gatherings. The government encourages working from home. The Public Health Agency recommends facemasks on public transport.
Accommodation
Accommodation remains open in Sweden. General advice and recommendations regarding minimising the spread of infection apply.
Healthcare in Sweden
Check Sweden’s Public Health Agency website for up to date information in English about COVID-19 in Sweden.
If you have symptoms of COVID-19, Sweden’s Public Health Agency advises calling the national health hotline on +46 771 1177. For general information on developments in Sweden related to the COVID-19 pandemic call the national crisis hotline +46 77 33 113 13.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, there may be reductions in healthcare services. Do not visit a health centre (“vårdcentral”) if you have any symptoms associated with COVID-19.
For contact details for English speaking doctors, visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Sweden.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Sweden
We will update this page when the Government of Sweden announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Swedish national vaccination programme started in December 2020 and uses the Pfizer-BioNTech, Moderna and AstraZeneca vaccines. The Swedish authorities have issued guidance in English about the vaccine programme in Sweden (please choose your region at the top of the page for local information). Vaccination is voluntary and free of charge.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in Sweden, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
Further information on visiting Sweden during the COVID-19 pandemic is available from the Swedish Authorities.
Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British Embassy Stockholm on Twitter and Facebook.
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
