This page has information on travelling to Sweden. Check what you must do to return to the UK.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport from the UK, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Sweden set and enforce entry rules.
If you’re fully vaccinated
If you’re fully vaccinated, you can enter Sweden for any purpose without needing to test or self-isolate.
At least 14 days must have passed since your second dose of the vaccine and the vaccine must be approved by the European Medicines Agency.
Find out if you qualify as fully vaccinated in Sweden on the Swedish Police’s website
Proof of vaccination status
You must present proof that you have been fully vaccinated at least 14 days prior to travel to enter Sweden.
Sweden will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 vaccination record and proof of COVID-19 vaccination issued in the Crown Dependencies. Your final vaccine dose must have been administered at least 14 days prior to travel. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
If you’re not fully vaccinated
If you’re not fully vaccinated, you’ll need to show proof that you are exempt from Sweden’s current entry ban under another exemption. See the Swedish Police website for further details. You will also need to show proof of a negative PCR or antigen test (taken no more than 72 hours before entry) or proof that you are exempt from the testing requirement. See information on getting a test before entry.
Find out if you qualify as fully vaccinated in Sweden on the Swedish Police’s website.
If you’ve had COVID-19 in the past year
You can’t use the NHS COVID Pass to demonstrate proof of COVID-19 recovery when entering Sweden. Travellers from the UK must demonstrate proof of vaccination, or be exempt from the entry ban as outlined above.
Residents of Sweden
UK nationals who are legally resident in Sweden are exempt from the entry ban.
UK nationals who have been resident in Sweden for at least one year according to the Population Registry and hold a valid residence permit, residence right or residence status are exempt from the requirement to present a negative COVID-19 test result. They should follow the Swedish Public Health Agency’s recommendations after travelling abroad.
UK nationals who have been resident in Sweden for less than one year according to the Population Registry but hold a valid residence permit, residence right or residence status must present a valid COVID-19 certificate (proof of vaccination, a negative test result or certificate of recovery). They should follow the Swedish Public Health Agency’s recommendations after travelling abroad.
Children and young people
Children aged 17 are exempt from the entry ban and from the requirement to show proof of a negative test or vaccination status to enter Sweden.
If you’re transiting through Sweden
If you are transiting through Sweden on your way to another country and staying in the airport (airside), you need to check the latest requirements on the Swedish Police’s website.
Exemptions
Details of exemptions to Sweden’s entry requirements, other than those listed above, can be found on the Swedish Police’s website.
HGV drivers
HGV drivers from the UK entering Sweden are exempt from the entry ban and do not have to show a negative COVID-19 test or proof of vaccination.
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
Passport validity
If you are planning to travel to an EU country (except Ireland), or Switzerland, Norway, Iceland, Liechtenstein, Andorra, Monaco, San Marino or Vatican City, you must meet the Schengen area rules.
Your passport must meet two requirements. It must be:
less than 10 years old on the day you enter (check the ‘date of is-sue’)
valid for at least 3 months after the day you plan to leave (check the ‘expiry date’)
We are asking the European Commission to clarify the 10-year rule. Their guidance for Schengen border guards may not be updated until the spring of 2022. Until then, for some Schengen countries your passport may need to be less than 10 years old during your whole vis-it, and the 3 months at the end of your visit may need to be within 10 years of your passport’s issue date.
Check both the issue date and the expiry date in your passport. If you renewed your passport early, extra months may have been added to its expiry date. This could affect the requirement for your passport to be less than 10 years old.
Contact your travel provider or embassy of the country you are visiting if you think that your passport does not meet both these requirements. Renew your passport if you need to.
Visas
The rules for travelling or working in European countries changed on 1 January 2021:
you can travel to countries in the Schengen area for up to 90 days in any 180-day period without a visa. This applies if you travel as a tourist, to visit family or friends, to attend business meetings, cultural or sports events, or for short-term studies or training.
if you are travelling to Sweden and other Schengen countries without a visa, make sure your whole visit is within the 90-day limit. Visits to Schengen countries within the previous 180 days before you travel count towards your 90 days.
to stay longer, to work or study, for business travel or for other reasons, you will need to meet the Swedish government’s entry requirements. Check with the Swedish Embassy what type of visa and/or work permit, if any, you may need
if you stay in Sweden with a residence permit or long-stay visa, this does not count towards your 90-day visa-free limit
Any time you spent in Sweden or other Schengen countries before 1 January 2021 does not count towards your 90-day visa-free limit.
At Swedish border control, you may need to queue in separate lanes from EU, EEA and Swiss citizens.
Check your passport is stamped if you enter or exit the Schengen area through Sweden as a visitor. Border guards will use passport stamps to check you’re complying with the 90-day visa-free limit for short stays in the Schengen area. If relevant entry or exit stamps are not in your passport, border guards will presume that you have overstayed your visa-free limit.
You can show evidence of when and where you entered or exited the Schengen area, and ask the border guards to add this date and location in your passport. Examples of acceptable evidence include boarding passes and tickets.
You may also need to:
show a return or onward ticket
show you have enough money for your stay
If you are resident in the Sweden your passport should not be stamped. You should proactively show your proof of residence as well as your valid passport at Swedish border control. For further information, see our Living in Sweden guide.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are accepted for entry, airside transit and exit from Sweden.
Travelling with children
If you’re travelling with children other than your own, you should carry a letter of consent from the child’s parent or guardian.
Pets
Check guidance before travelling with pets.
Returning to the UK
Check what you must do to return to the UK.
