At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Coronavirus
Cases of coronavirus (COVID-19) have been confirmed in Sweden. The Swedish authorities have put in place a series of measures to limit the spread of the virus. Upper secondary schools, colleges and universities have suspended normal teaching in favour of distance learning. Public gatherings of more than 500 people are banned. The government encourages remote working. The elderly are recommended to stay at home, and relatives asked not to visit.
British nationals visiting Sweden should be aware that travel options to and from the country are now limited due to coronavirus related restrictions. While there are still options for direct flights between Sweden and the UK at present, this may change in the near future. Airlines are cancelling or reducing significantly their international flights to and from Stockholm and Gothenburg. Check with your airline for latest information.
Countries neighbouring Sweden (Denmark, Norway and Finland) have also introduced restrictions. The Danish Government announced that it was closing its borders for a month as of 1100 GMT on Saturday 14 March. Those normally living and working in Denmark will still be able to enter the country from Sweden. In addition, those who need to transit through Denmark in order to return to their place of residence will be able to. However tourists and those the Danish authorities say cannot demonstrate a recognised purpose (residence, work, delivery of goods, transit) to enter Denmark will not be allowed to cross the border. There may be further updates to how these policies take effect as the Danish and local authorities implement this ruling over coming days.
Check Sweden’s Public Health Agency website for up to date information in English about coronavirus in Sweden. If you have symptoms of coronavirus, Sweden’s Public Health Agency advises calling the national health hotline on +46 771 1177. For general information on developments in Sweden related to the coronavirus call national crisis hotline +46 77 33 113 13.
Further advice on coronavirus is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
Healthcare
The rules on access to healthcare will stay the same until 31 December 2020.
You should get a free European Health Insurance Card (EHIC) before leaving the UK. After 31 December 2020, your UK-issued EHIC might not be valid.
The EHIC entitles you to state provided medical treatment that may become necessary during your trip. Any treatment provided is on the same terms as Swedish nationals. If you don’t have your EHIC with you or you’ve lost it, you can call the Department of Health Overseas Healthcare Team (+44 191 218 1999) to get a Provisional Replacement Certificate.
It is important to take out comprehensive travel insurance that includes cover for emergency medical treatment and associated costs. The existing EHIC arrangements are not an alternative to travel insurance, as some health-related costs, including for medical repatriation, ongoing medical treatment and non-urgent treatment, are not covered. Read more about what your travel insurance should cover.
If you’re living in Sweden, you can also find more information on healthcare for residents in our Living In Sweden guide.
Pharmacies are usually open during normal shop opening hours. You can also get an emergency prescription at hospitals.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 112 and ask for an ambulance. If you are referred to a medical facility for treatment you should contact your insurance/medical assistance company immediately.
If you’re visiting remote areas, consider the relative inaccessibility of the emergency services.
