Coronavirus guidance is being updated.
Read the Prime Minister’s statement for the latest information.

There are still commercial options to return to the UK from Sweden. There are limited direct flights from Sweden to the UK. Some indirect routes remain available.
If you live in the UK and are currently visiting Sweden, you’re strongly advised to return now by commercial means. Don’t risk getting stranded.
UK special charter flights will only operate for priority countries where commercial flights are not possible. You should not assume that these flights will become available in countries where commercial routes are operating. Please do not contact the contracted travel management company if no flight is advertised here.
Flight options
At present, there are limited direct flights between Stockholm and London. Check with the airlines or a travel operator for ticket availability.
Some carriers have made the wearing of face masks compulsory. You should ensure you are aware of your airline’s policy on protective measures on board flights.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK.
For more information on obtaining an emergency loan, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM is a commercial partner of the FCO and is authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Travel via Denmark
If you are in southern Sweden, you may be considering returning to the UK via Denmark. This would require you to cross the Oresund Bridge or use the Helsingborg – Helsingör ferry route, and therefore cross Danish border controls. You should inform the Danish border officials that you are returning to the UK, and be prepared to provide evidence to support this, for example a flight ticket. See travel advice for Denmark.
Your journey home: re-entering the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK. You:
need to provide your journey and contact details up to 48 hours before you’re due to arrive in the UK
are not allowed to leave the place you’re staying for the first 14 days you’re in the UK except in very limited situations (known as ‘self-isolating’)
See also the list of people who are exempt from the border rules.
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) also provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
Help and support
Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British Embassy Stockholm on Twitter and Facebook.
If you cannot leave Sweden
See advice on staying in Sweden during coronavirus.
See additional advice on what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
