

Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. You should remain vigilant at all times.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Sweden
Terrorists are very likely to try to carry out attacks in Sweden. Attacks could be indiscriminate, including in places frequented by foreigners.
The authorities in Sweden have successfully disrupted a number of planned attacks and made a number of arrests.
Eurovision 2024
Eurovision will take place in Malmö, Sweden from 4 May to 11 May 2024. If you are planning to attend: 
see the Eurovision song contest website for information about ticketing and practical guidance on how to travel around the city
check information from the Swedish authorities on the kriseinformation website  
sign up to get email alerts when the FCDO updates this Sweden travel advice page
Tickets
Only buy tickets from official providers. In Sweden, it is permitted to purchase or sell tickets second hand, but this often involves more risks as there is no guarantee that the tickets are genuine.  
Tickets will be sent to you as a PDF file. Make sure your phone is charged and take into account roaming charges in Sweden. 
Check the Eurovision 2024 website for ticket information.
Security checks
Entry into venues, including Eurovision Park (Folkets Park) and the Malmö Arena will include: 
a ban on taking bags into the event 
security checks 
For more information about security and the bag ban, which includes small bags, such as handbags and any exceptions. see the Malmo City website.
Moving around the city
During the time of the contest there will be a greater number of people in Malmo. Transport networks will be busy, particularly at Hyllie Station. Local authorities may put systems in place to help people move around safely. Make sure you: 
plan your journey 
leave plenty of time for travel
Political demonstrations
Demonstrations in Sweden are usually peaceful. There are likely to be an increased number of protests in Malmö during Eurovision week especially on 9 May when large scale protests are expected for the centre of the city. Where more than one protest happens at the same time, on opposing issues, clashes can occur. Protests can block access routes. Avoid demonstrations wherever possible and follow the advice of the local authorities. For more details, see the Swedish Police website.
Crime
Protecting your belongings
Take particular care of your belongings in major cities as pickpockets often target tourists for passports and cash.
Violent crime does occur. Gang-related crime, including knife crime, shootings and explosions, have been reported in Malmö, Stockholm and Gothenburg.
Scams
Check carefully whether any job offers are genuine. Contact the British Embassy in Stockholm for more advice if necessary.
Laws and cultural differences
There are heavy punishments for importing illegal drugs. There is zero tolerance towards drugs; even petty drug use will lead to a penalty.
Paying for sex is illegal.
Physical punishment of children is illegal.
LGBT+ travellers
Same-sex relationships are legal in Sweden. Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Transport risks
Road travel
You can drive in Sweden on your UK driving licence.
If you are planning to drive in Sweden, see information on driving abroad and read the RAC’s Sweden guide.
During winter, snow and ice on the roads cause accidents daily. From 1 December to 31 March, and any other times designated by the police, all vehicles must have winter tyres.
Extreme weather and natural disasters
Arctic travel
Parts of Sweden are in the Arctic Circle, including some very remote areas of land. Emergency medical assistance and search and rescue are limited in these areas. See Arctic travel safety advice.
