This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Sweden as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Sweden to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Sweden
The Swedish Public Health Agency advises people not to travel further than two hours by car from their homes . Upper secondary schools, colleges and universities have suspended normal teaching in favour of distance learning. Public gatherings of more than 50 people are banned, as are visits to elderly care homes. The government encourages working from home. The elderly are recommended to stay at home and relatives asked not to visit.
Health
Check Sweden’s Public Health Agency website for up to date information in English about coronavirus in Sweden.
If you have symptoms of coronavirus, Sweden’s Public Health Agency advises calling the national health hotline on +46 771 1177. For general information on developments in Sweden related to the coronavirus call the national crisis hotline +46 77 33 113 13.
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Sweden.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
