The FCDO advises against all but essential travel to:
the whole of Sweden based on the current assessment of COVID-19 risks.
Sweden have announced they will impose restrictions on travel from the UK. They plan to introduce restrictions as soon as possible, but are yet to announce a specific date and time. If you were due to travel to/from Sweden please contact your travel operator. Further updates will be published when they are available. Check our advice on things to consider, and be prepared to stay overseas longer than planned.
If you are returning to the UK from Sweden, you will need to self-isolate on your return (unless you are exempt). Check the latest guidance for England, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales.
The FCDO is not advising those already travelling in Sweden to leave at this time. Travellers should follow the advice of the local authorities on how best to protect themselves and others, including any measures that they bring in to control the virus. You should contact your tour operator or airline if you have any questions about your return journey.
Travel to Sweden is subject to entry restrictions
Travel options to and from Sweden are significantly reduced due to coronavirus related restrictions. From 1 January 2021 temporary travel restrictions come into force limiting entry to Sweden from the UK.
There are limited direct flights available between Sweden and the UK. Airlines have reduced other international flights to and from Stockholm and Gothenburg.
See Entry requirements for more information before you plan to travel.
Preparing for your return journey to the UK
If you’re returning to the UK from overseas, you will need to:
provide your journey and contact details before you travel
check if you need to self-isolate on your return
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
If you’re planning travel to Sweden, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO)’s guidance on foreign travel insurance.
There is a general threat from terrorism. There may be increased security in place over the festive period, including at Christmas markets and other major events that might attract large crowds. You should remain vigilant and follow the advice of the local authorities.
More than 850,000 British nationals visit Sweden from the UK each year. Most visits are trouble-free.
If you’re living in or moving to Sweden, visit our Living in Sweden guide in addition to this travel advice.
The UK has left the European Union. The rules on travel to EU countries will stay the same until 31 December 2020. This page is updated with country-specific information for travellers to Sweden. Sign up for email alerts and view the latest updates for UK nationals travelling to and living in Europe.
Border controls are in place in Sweden for people travelling from Denmark via the Öresund crossing and arriving on ferries from Denmark and Germany. See Border controls.
Check Sweden’s Public Health Agency website for up to date information in English about coronavirus in Sweden. If you have symptoms of coronavirus, Sweden’s Public Health Agency advises calling the national health hotline on +46 771 1177. For general information on developments in Sweden related to the coronavirus call national crisis hotline +46 77 33 113 13.
If you need to contact the emergency services in Sweden call 112.
Terrorist attacks in Sweden cannot be ruled out. See Terrorism
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.
