Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Guinea on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
You should contact local authorities for information on testing facilities.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Guinea.
Returning to the UK
Travelling from and returning to the UK
Check what you must do to travel abroad and return to England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
If you plan to pass through another country to return to the UK, check the travel advice for the country you’re transiting.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID-19. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Guinea
Those travelling out of Conakry to the regions will need to carry a negative PCR test certificate or COVID-19 vaccination certificate. Mask wearing remains mandatory, distance must be maintained and hands washed when entering and leaving government and private establishments. Those not wearing masks are subject to a fine of 30,000 GNF.
The Guinean authorities maintain police and local militia checkpoints across the whole country. Carry identification with you at all times. See Road travel and Local laws and customs
Motorists have encountered theft at gun point, particularly at night. See Crime
Road travel can be hazardous due to poor driving standards and the state of the roads. Essential supplies, such as fuel, may run low from time to time. You should avoid travelling at night outside Conakry. See Road travel
Public places and services
On 26 October 2021 the Ministry of Health announced that vaccination certificates should be shown at hotels and tourist venues.
Healthcare in Guinea
For contact details for English speaking doctors, visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Guinea.
If you have any health concerns relating to coronavirus, call the local government helpline L’Agence Nationale de Securité Santé (ANSS) +224 629 995 656 / +224 626 069 797. Information on coronavirus is also on the government website.
Those testing positive for coronavirus must remain at a government Coronavirus health centre, where medical facilities are poor and the equipment is very basic.
Testing positive for Coronavirus in Guinea
Authorities in Guinea should contact you if you have received a positive test result. Those testing positive are required to go to a government Coronavirus health centre and will need to isolate there until they receive a negative test result. The health centre is free of charge, although the conditions are poor and the equipment is very basic.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Guinea
We will update this page when the Government of Guinea announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Guinea national vaccination programme started in March 2021 and is using the AstraZeneca, Sputnik V, Sinovac and Sinopharm vaccines. The Government of Guinea has stated that British nationals resident in Guinea are eligible for vaccination if they choose to join the programme. Further information on the vaccination programme is available on the Government of Guinea National Health Security Agency website.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in Guinea, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
L’Agence Nationale de la Sécurité Sanitaire gives Guinea’s overarching guidance. www.anss-guinee.org.
