This page has information on travelling to Guinea.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport from the UK, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Guinea set and enforce entry rules. If you’re unsure how Guinea’s entry requirements apply to you, contact its UK embassy, high commission or consulate.’
All travellers
Conakry airport is open. You should contact your airline or travel company for the latest information about flights.
All British nationals need a visa to enter or live in Guinea.
For more information, see the Visas section.
If you need further information about entry requirements, contact the local immigration authorities or the nearest Guinean Embassy.
Quarantine requirements
If anyone shows symptoms of COVID-19 they should self-isolate, telephone 115 and follow Agence Nationale Sécurité Santé (ANSS) guidance.
If you’re fully vaccinated
The Ministry of Health announced on 11 March 2022 that fully vaccinated travellers entering or leaving Guinea are not required to show proof of a negative certificate from a polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test.
Guinea’s Ministry of Health accepts the following vaccines:
Johnson & Johnson, at least 28 days before travel
Astrazeneca, with an interval of 8-12 weeks between doses, and at least 14 days after the second dose
Pfizer, with an interval of 3 weeks between doses, and at least 14 days after the second dose
Moderna, with an interval of 3-7 weeks between doses, and at least 14 days after the second dose
Sinopharm and Sinovac, with an interval of 3 weeks between doses, and at least 14 days after the second dose
Sputnik V, with an interval of 8-12 weeks between doses, and at least 14 days after the second dose
Proof of vaccination status
Guinea will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 recovery and vaccination record and proof of COVID-19 vaccination issued in the Crown Dependencies. See above for the required number of days that your final vaccine dose must have been administered by prior to travel. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
If you’re not fully vaccinated
On 11 March 2022, Guinea’s Ministry of Health announced that all travellers aged 6 and over who have not received the vaccine or are partially vaccinated are required to show proof of a negative certificate from polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test taken within 72 hours of entering or leaving Guinea.
You should not use the NHS testing service to get a test in order to facilitate your travel to another country. You should arrange to take a private test.
If you’ve had COVID-19 in the past year
Entry requirements for Guinea are the same for all travellers, regardless of whether you have tested positive for COVID-19 in the past year.
Children and young people
Children aged 6 years old do not need to show proof of a negative certificate from a polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test taken within 72 hours of travel, in addition to their vaccination status.
If you’re transiting through Guinea
There are no specific requirements for transiting through Guinea.
Exemptions
There are no exemptions to Guinea’s entry requirements.
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
Passport validity
Your passport should be valid for a minimum period of 6 months from the date of your application for a visa to enter Guinea and must be valid for at least the duration of your stay in Guinea.
If you are a resident in Guinea, your passport must be valid for six months from the date you arrive.
Contact your travel provider or embassy of the country you are visiting if you think that your passport does not meet both these requirements. Renew your passport if you need to.
Visas
All British nationals need a visa to enter or live in Guinea. You can apply for visas for both private and business travel and residency at the Embassy of the Republic of Guinea and on the Guinea Online Visa Portal.
The Ministry of Health announced on 28 July 2021 that applications for visas must include a COVID-19 certificate of vaccination, if you have received the following vaccines: Pfizer, Sputnik, Sinopharm, Astra Zeneca or Johnson & Johnson. The application must include proof of two COVID-19 vaccination doses completed at least 15 days before you plan to travel. Guinea will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 recovery and vaccination record. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
You should ensure that you follow the correct visa process and hold the correct visa for entry. There have been cases of British nationals being refused entry without the correct visa.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
A Yellow Fever certificate is required to enter the country. Please visit the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) aren’t valid for entry or transit through Guinea. However, ETDs are accepted for exit from Guinea.
