

The Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) cannot provide tailored advice for individual trips. Read this travel advice and carry out your own research before deciding whether to travel.
Emergency services in Guinea
There are no emergency services in Guinea. If you need urgent medical assistance, contact a clinic in Conakry:
Clinique Pasteur: +224 621 35 01 01 or +224 664 26 98 53
Clinique Ambroise Paré: +224 631 40 10 40
You may also be able to get advice from your hotel or the local police.
Contact your travel provider and insurer
Contact your travel provider and your insurer if you are involved in a serious incident or emergency abroad. They will tell you if they can help and what you need to do.
Refunds and changes to travel
For refunds or changes to travel, contact your travel provider. You may also be able to make a claim through insurance. However, insurers usually require you to talk to your travel provider first.
Find out more about changing or cancelling travel plans, including:
where to get advice if you are in a dispute with a provider
how to access previous versions of travel advice to support a claim
Support from FCDO
FCDO has guidance on staying safe and what to do if you need help or support abroad, including:
finding English-speaking lawyers, funeral directors and translators and interpreters in Guinea
dealing with a death in Guinea
being arrested or imprisoned in Guinea
getting help if you’re a victim of crime
what to do if you’re in hospital
if you’re affected by a crisis, such as a terrorist attack
Contacting FCDO
Follow and contact FCDO travel on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram. You can also sign up to get email notifications when this travel advice is updated.
You can also contact FCDO online.
Help abroad in an emergency
If you’re in Guinea and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the British Embassy in Conakry.  
The British Embassy in Conakry can only provide limited emergency consular assistance. Access to the Embassy is strictly by appointment only. Please send an email to BritishEmbassy.Conakry@fcdo.gov.uk for consular assistance or to make an appointment. If you need urgent consular help, call +44 (0) 1908 516 666.
FCDO in London
You can call FCDO in London if you need urgent help because something has happened to a friend or relative abroad.
Telephone: 020 7008 5000 (24 hours)
Find out about call charges
Risk information for British companies
The Overseas Business Risk service offers information and advice for British companies operating in Guinea on how to manage political, economic, and business security-related risks.
