Coronavirus (COVID-19)
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Guinea on the TravelHealthPro website
See the healthcare information in the Coronavirus section for information on what to do if you think you have coronavirus while in Guinea.
At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
The Ministry of Health announced on 7 June 2022 the presence of Bird flu in the Forecariah and Coyah following results from a laboratory in Italy.
On 15 September 2021, Guinea declared an end to the Marburg Virus Disease outbreak that was first confirmed on 6 August 2021 in Guekédou, Forestiére Region. You can find more information on Marburg virus disease from the World Health Organisation
There have been confirmed cases of Lassa Fever in Guinea. You can find more information on Lassa Fever from the World Health Organisation.
Medical treatment
There are no central contact numbers for hospitals in Guinea. Only private clinics can be contacted by telephone. In Conakry, Clinique Pasteur can be contacted on +224 621 35 01 01 or +224 664 26 98 53, and the Clinique Ambroise Pare can be contacted on +224 631 40 10 40.
Medical facilities are poor. Equipment is basic and often not sterile. You should carry basic medical supplies, and consider including an emergency dental kit if travelling outside Conakry. There are minimal facilities for dealing with heart problems and major trauma. For serious medical treatment, medical evacuation to Europe is necessary. There are some well-stocked pharmacies in Conakry but few outside the capital. You should ensure that medicine is genuine. Make sure you have adequate supplies of prescription medication, bearing in mind the risk of delays due to flight cancellations. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation. 
Ebola
On 19 June 2021 the Ministry of Health declared an end to the Ebola epidemic that had started in the Gouécké sub-district of the N’zérékoré region in February. The previous Ebola epidemic ended in June 2016.
Further information and updates on Ebola can be found on the WHO website and the Public Health England (PHE) website. Public Health England has guidance for humanitarian or healthcare workers travelling to countries at risk of Ebola.
Cholera and malaria are also present in Guinea and have similar early symptoms to Ebola. You should check this travel advice before travelling to Guinea and follow the health advice on the NHS website.
