This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Guinea as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Cases of coronavirus (COVID-19) have been confirmed in Guinea. The government of Guinea has put in place a number of measures to limit the spread of the virus. Everyone should comply with these measures.
Travel restrictions and borders
Cases of coronavirus (COVID-19) have been confirmed in Guinea.
On 23 March it was announced that Conakry Airport would be closed until further notice.
The President has extended the state of emergency until 15 June.
Quarantine measures were in force when the airport was open and those passengers showing coronavirus symptoms were taken to a government quarantine facility.
Keep up to date with information from your tour operator, transport or accommodation provider on the impact on any existing travel plans. If you need further information about entry requirements, contact the local immigration authorities or the nearest Guinean Embassy. You should also check with your airline or travel company for the latest information.
Local measures
The president has declared a state of emergency until 15 June.
Movement is limited out of Conakry although there is now no limit to movement to Conakry.
There is a limit of 30 people assembling for marriage, baptism and funeral services in Conakry and 100 people in the interior of the country. Schools and mosques are closed, as well as bars.
There is a curfew from 22:00 to 05:00 in Greater Conakry including Coyah and Dubéreka.
Medical care
If you have any health concerns relating to coronavirus, call the local government helpline L’Agence Nationale de Securité Santé (ANSS) 629 995 656 / 626 069 797. Information on coronavirus is also on the government website.
Those testing positive for coronavirus must remain at the government coronavirus health centre.
From 18 April everyone must wear a mask and those not wearing masks will be fined 30,000 GNF.
Informing the British Embassy
If you’re a British national traveller, email providing your full name, passport number, date of birth, current location in Guinea, and details of how to contact you.
Moving around in Guinea
The President has declared that thestate of emergency has been extended until 15 June.
There is a curfew from 22:00 to 05:00 in Greater Conakry including Coyah and Dubéreka.
There is a limit of 30 people assembling for marriage, baptism and funeral services in Conakry and 100 people in the interior of the country. Schools and mosques are closed, as well as bars.
From 18 April, everyone must wear a mask and those not wearing masks will be liable to pay a fine of 30,000 GNF.
Health
For contact details for English speaking doctors, visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Guinea.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
If you have any health concerns relating to coronavirus, call the local government helpline l’Agence Nationale de Securité Santé (ANSS) 629 995 656 / 626 069 797. Information on coronavirus is also on the government website.
Those testing positive for coronavirus must remain at the government coronavirus health centre.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you are in Guinea and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Follow the British Embassy Conakry on Facebook and other social media accounts, where relevant information on departure options will also be shared.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
