The Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) advises against all but essential travel to:
the whole of Guinea based on the current assessment of COVID-19 risks
the N’zérékoré Region of Guinea based on the current outbreak of Ebola Virus Disease reported there.
Travel to Guinea is subject to entry restrictions
All passengers arriving in Conakry must show a COVID-19 certificate with a negative polymerase chain reaction (PCR) result from a test taken within 72 hours of arrival, and departing passengers also within 72 hours of leaving. Following the identification of a new strain of COVID-19, travellers from the UK must also take a supplementary PCR test on arrival at the airport. Travellers will remain at the Onomo hotel in Conakry until the test result, which could take between 48 and 72 hours. Food and lodging will be paid by the Government of Guinea until the test result is received. Travellers will only be able to leave the hotel with a negative certificate. Those testing positive will be taken to a government treatment centre.
You may have to follow special requirements set out by your airline.
The state of emergency was extended again on 16 December for a month
See Entry requirements for more information before you plan to travel.
Returning to the UK
Guinea is on the amber list for entering England. Check what you must do to enter England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
If you’re planning travel to Guinea, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCDO’s guidance on foreign travel insurance.
For information about COVID-19 vaccines, see the Coronavirus page.
On 14 February 2021 the Ministry of Health declared an Ebola epidemic in the Gouécké sub-district of the N’zérékoré region, the first Ebola cases reported since June 2016. The government of Guinea has taken steps to contain Ebola but there have been several confirmed cases and deaths. A 42-day countdown to declaration of the outbreak being over began on 8 May. Due to the increase in COVID-19 cases and the re-emergence of Ebola in Guinea, on 25 February the President introduced further health measures including a curfew from 11pm to 4am. Bars and restaurants must close for the curfew. Those travelling out of Conakry to the regions will need to carry a negative PCR test certificate. Mask wearing remains mandatory, distance must be maintained and washing hands when entering and leaving government and private establishments.
On 4 March the President issued a decree for N’zérékoré and the Greater Conakry area suspending all cultural activities, forbidding public and private events including weddings, funerals and baptisms. Night clubs are also closed. National and international experts deployed to the N’zérékoré Region require the COVID and Ebola vaccines and a COVID-19 PCR negative Test Certificate taken within 72 hours. Authorities are also administering temperature checks before boarding flights and passengers must complete forms including their contact details.
On 26 February, President Conde extended the state health emergency for 3 months.
On 17 May the government of Guinea declared an epidemic of Lassa Fever in N’zérékoré region following a death in Yomou Prefecture.
Further information and updates on Ebola can be found on the WHO website and the Public Health England (PHE) website. Public Health England has guidance for humanitarian or healthcare workers travelling to countries at risk of Ebola. See Ebola
Demonstrations are likely to continue following the 18 October presidential elections. You should exercise caution and be vigilant and aware of your surroundings, staying clear of demonstrations and monitor local media. “Villes mortes” (general strikes) happen intermittently. Public gatherings and demonstrations can happen with little or no notice and can quickly turn violent. See Political situation
Terrorist attacks can’t be ruled out. Attacks could be indiscriminate. You should be vigilant, especially in places visited by foreigners. See Terrorism
The Guinean authorities maintain police and local militia checkpoints across the whole country. Carry identification with you at all times. See Road travel and Local laws and customs
Motorists have encountered theft at gun point, particularly at night. See Crime
Road travel can be hazardous due to poor driving standards and the state of the roads. Essential supplies, such as fuel, may run low from time to time. You should avoid travelling at night outside Conakry. See Road travel
Exchanging foreign currency on the street or using unofficial money changers is illegal and can result in military detention. See Money
If you need urgent consular assistance, call the British Embassy Conakry. See Consular assistance
