Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Brazil on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
Direct commercial flights to and from the UK are suspended. There are some scheduled indirect flights via mainland Europe. Check with your travel company for the latest information.
From 8 June, direct flights can arrive in England from Brazil but they must arrive at dedicated terminals at Heathrow and Birmingham airports. Different requirements may apply for arrivals into Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Brazil.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements. The Brazilian government has stated that the public health system should not be used for pre-departure tests. Travellers should obtain a test from a private provider.
From 8 June, direct flights can arrive in England from Brazil but they must arrive at dedicated terminals at Heathrow and Birmingham airports. Different requirements may apply for arrivals into Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Brazil
Restrictions vary from city to city. The use of face masks in streets, public spaces such as parks, and on public transport including taxis is mandatory across the country. There are additional local requirements for the compulsory use of masks in other places, such as shops and gyms, in various cities including São Paulo, Rio de Janeiro, Belo Horizonte and Brasília. Social isolation measures have been lifted to an extent in some parts of the country, but localised lockdowns continue to varying degrees. You should refer to official guidance in your location for details of what preventative measures are in place and how you can comply with them. Failing to comply with these rules may result in a fine.
Accommodation
Some accommodation options are open such as hotels, hostels and private rentals but this varies area by area. Some popular beach areas remain closed to non-residents. Check with your accommodation provider what facilities, including restaurants, are available.
Public spaces and services
The situation varies around Brazil, each state will determine local measures to limit the spread of COVID-19, and this includes regulation on the opening of non-essential services (shops, restaurants, bars, beaches and other leisure activities). You should refer to official guidance in your location for details of what preventative measures are in place and how you can comply with them. It’s highly possible that public places likely to attract large crowds may be closed at short notice.
Healthcare in Brazil
If you think you have COVID-19 symptoms, you should self isolate for 14 days. You should only go to hospital if you are feeling breathless.
The public healthcare system varies across the country, and in some states in Brazil the additional burden of treating Covid-19 patients might affect services such as accident & emergency care. Some private hospitals are no longer accepting credit card payments for admissions and only accepting patients with valid health insurance.
Check if your travel or health insurance has comprehensive cover for coronavirus and refer to official channels in your location for further details.
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Brazil.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Brazil
Wherever possible British nationals should aim to be vaccinated in the country where they live. As further information is available about the national vaccination programme, this page will be updated. Sign up to get email notifications.
The Brazilian authorities have issued the national vaccination programme (only available in Portuguese). Resident British Nationals with a CPF (fiscal number) are eligible within the vaccination programme on the same basis as Brazilian nationals. Information about priority group categories and the vaccines available in Brazil are included in the guidance. Vaccination registration varies from state to state, you should refer to official guidance from local authorities for further information.
The Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) is the UK authority responsible for assessing the safety, quality and efficacy of vaccines. It has authorised the Pfizer/BioNTech, Oxford/AstraZeneca and Moderna vaccines for temporary supply and use in the UK. Find out more about MHRA approval for these vaccines.
British nationals living overseas should seek medical advice from their local healthcare provider in the country where they reside. Information about vaccines used in other national programmes, including regulatory status, should be available from the local authorities. This list of Stringent Regulatory Authorities recognised by the World Health Organisation may also be a useful source of additional information. Find out more information about the COVID-19 vaccines on the World Health Organization COVID-19 vaccines page.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
You can find more information from the Brazilian Consulate in London and on the website of the Ministry of Health (in Portuguese).
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
