This page has information on travelling to Brazil.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport from the UK, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Brazil set and enforce entry rules. If you’re unsure how [Country’s] entry requirements apply to you, contact its UK embassy, high commission or consulate.
All travellers
You can travel to Brazil without a visa as a tourist for up to 90 days. If you wish to extend your tourist visa, you should contact the Policia Federal.
See Visas and Passport validity section for more information.
If you’re fully vaccinated
If you are fully vaccinated, you do not need to take a COVID-19 test to enter Brazil. Most people aged 12 or older travelling to Brazil, will need to present a vaccination certificate to the airline before boarding and during travel.
Brazilian authorities have confirmed that vaccines recommended and approved for use by the World Health Organisation are accepted to enter Brazil. This includes the Moderna, Oxford/AstraZeneca, and Pfizer/BioNTech vaccines used in the UK vaccine programme.
Proof of vaccination status
To qualify as a fully vaccinated traveller to Brazil, your final vaccine dose must have been administered at least 14 days prior to travel. You cannot use the NHS COVID-19 vaccination appointment card as proof of vaccination when entering Brazil.
UK’s proof of COVID-19 vaccination record and proof of COVID-19 vaccination issued in the Crown Dependencies are accepted as these are in line with the Brazilian government guidelines for certification.
The Brazilian National Health Surveillance Agency (ANVISA) website (in Portuguese) lists the forms of acceptable proof of COVID-19 vaccination. The website also includes the following information about proof of vaccination:
English, Spanish or Portuguese are the only languages accepted;
It must be in printed or digital form to show the airline. Proof of vaccination exclusively in QR code format will not be accepted;
It must have the traveller’s full name, matching the name on the passport .
It must include the name of the official body which issued the record, the vaccine manufacturer, date(s) of vaccination and batch number.
If you’re not fully vaccinated
Foreign visitors who are not fully vaccinated are not allowed entry to Brazil unless they are resident in the country, or with some exceptions (see below): Non-Brazilians who are resident in Brazil arriving by air need to show proof of a negative PCR test or a negative antigen test, taken no more than 24 hours before boarding.
All forms of proof should be in English, Spanish or Portuguese and shown to airline staff at check-in. Details of exemptions for unvaccinated travellers – including for some children travelling with an adult providing the above documentation – can be found on the Brazilian government’s website or the Brazilian Consulate in London website. See information on getting a test before entry.
For entry by land, unvaccinated foreign travellers who do not fall in the exemption criteria on cannot enter Brazil. See Exemptions
If you’ve had COVID-19 in the past year
To avoid disruption to your travel plans, you should present either a valid vaccination certificate or a negative PCR test result (as above). UK proof of recovery from COVID-19 certificates are not accepted in Brazil.
Children and young people
Children under 2 do not need to present proof of vaccination or a negative COVID-19 test result to enter Brazil. Any unvaccinated children between the ages of 2 and12 years old will be granted entry when flying to Brazil from the UK with their parents or legal guardians. Parents or guardians who are fully vaccinated are also exempt from presenting a negative test for COVID-19. However, if not fully vaccinated, they will need to present proof of a negative PCR test or an antigen test for COVID-19 taken within 24 hours of boarding. Details of exemptions can be found on the Brazilian government website (in Portuguese).
If you’re transiting through Brazil
Passengers arriving in Brazil by air can transit, as long as they follow the rules set out above.
If you intend to transit by land, and an exemption applies to showing proof of vaccination, you will be permitted to transit. However foreign travellers arriving by land without proof of vaccination are only permitted entry if they are seeking to transit through Brazil to their country of ordinary residence.
Further information about transiting through Brazil and exemptions can be found on the Brazilian government website (in Portuguese).
Exemptions
Non-resident foreign nationals who are not fully vaccinated cannot enter Brazil by air or land. However, if you fall under an exemption, you will be able to enter the country. More details are available on the Brazilian government website (in Portuguese).
Exemptions to the entry rules may apply for:
Brazilians and foreigners residing in Brazilian territory who are not fully vaccinated;
Ineligible for vaccination based on age;
Travellers in a vulnerable situation e.g in a humanitarian crisis;
Travellers with a health condition that contraindicates vaccination;
From countries with low vaccination coverage.
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
Check with your travel provider to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Passport validity
Your passport should be valid for a minimum period of 6 months from the date of entry into Brazil.
Visas
British nationals can normally enter Brazil without a visa as a tourist. For further information about visas, see the website of the Brazilian Consulate in London.
Ensure you comply with Brazilian immigration laws on arrival in the country. You must satisfy the Federal Police (the Brazilian immigration authority) of the purpose of your visit. You will need to demonstrate that you have enough money for the duration of your stay, provide de-tails of your accommodation and evidence of return or onward travel. Make sure your passport is stamped. If it is not, you may be fined on departure.
If you wish to extend your stay in Brazil, you should apply to the Federal Police for an exten-sion. If you overstay, you are likely to be given notice to leave the country at your own ex-pense and you may be fined or deported.
Dual nationality
The Brazilian immigration authorities often require dual British/Brazilian nationals visiting Brazil to travel on Brazilian (rather than British) passports.
Travelling with children
There are additional requirements for British-Brazilian dual nationals under 18 entering or transiting through Brazil without their parents or legal guardian, or travelling with one parent only. These requirements don’t usually apply to foreign nationals, but as a precaution and to avoid any possible delays, British nationals under 18 entering or transiting through Brazil with-out their parents or legal guardian, or travelling with one parent only, are advised to bring a letter of authorisation to travel from any parent(s) not travelling. This applies particularly to children with a Brazilian parent, even if the child only holds a British passport. Contact the Brazilian Consulate in London for more information and advice.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Net-work and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are accepted for entry, airside transit and exit from Brazil. Your ETD must be valid for a minimum period of 6 months from the date of entry into Brazil.
