

This section has safety advice for regions of Brazil. It only covers regions where FCDO has specific advice. You should also read FCDO’s overall travel advice and safety and security advice.
Rio de Janeiro
Protests in Rio de Janeiro
Copacabana beach is a popular location for demonstrations.
Organised crime and militias
Organised crime groups and militias operate in Rio de Janeiro.
Favelas
Avoid all favelas – see Safety and security. There are favelas located around the city, including close to the tourist area of Zona Sul and Maré.
There have been armed clashes on major roads, including the main highway to the international airport, which runs alongside a large favela. Tourists participating in favela tours have accidentally been shot dead during police operations.
There is a risk of violence spilling over into nearby areas, including popular tourist areas. There have been injuries and deaths from stray bullets in and near favelas.
Theft in Rio de Janeiro
The most common incidents affecting British nationals are thefts and pickpocketing around:
Copacabana beach
Ipanema beach
Lapa
Santa Teresa
Tourists have reported armed robberies on the Corcovado walking trail to the Christ the Redeemer statue.
Heavy rainfall
Heavy rainfall (particularly in the summer months of January to March) can lead to landslides and localised flash floods because the mountains are close to the coast. This includes in tourist areas. Follow local authority warnings which are displayed on digital street signs and sent to hotels and hostels.
Avoid travelling on the road during heavy rain. Cars and buses have been caught in landslides, resulting in deaths. If you are outside when the rain starts, avoid walking in flooded areas, and do not cross fast flowing water, however shallow you think it is. People have drowned when swept away.
Drinking water
Problems have been reported with tap water. Only use bottled water.
São Paulo
Protests in São Paulo
Protests take place regularly and often without warning. Roads and public transport are frequently disrupted and there can be delays along the main road to Guarulhos International Airport.
Popular locations for demonstrations include the Avenida Paulista and the historic downtown area.
Theft in São Paulo
The most common incidents affecting British nationals in São Paulo are thefts or pickpocketing around:
Avenida Paulista
the historical downtown area
the red light districts located on Rua Augusta (north of Avenida Paulista)
Catedral da Sé
Praça da República
the Estacao de Luz metro area (where Cracolandia is located)
Brasilia
Protests in Brasilia
The Esplanada dos Ministerios is a popular location for demonstrations. See our advice on protests and civil unrest.
Theft in Brasilia
In Brasilia, the central bus station area has a lot of incidents of theft. Theft from pedestrians also happens across the city, especially in the central and southern commercial centres. Take particular care at these locations.
Amazon
River travel
FCDO advises against all but essential travel:  
along the Amazonas (Amazon) River and its tributaries west of the town of Codajás and east of the town of Belém do Solimões in Amazonas State
along any part of the Itaquaí River in Amazonas State
along any part of the Japurá River or its tributaries in Amazonas State
along the Rio Negro (Black River) and its tributaries north or west of the town of Barcelos in Amazonas State
There are risks to travellers in the Amazonas River region, where Brazil shares borders with Colombia, Peru and Venezuela, due to criminal activity. Armed groups, including pirates and drug traffickers, travel by the river routes in the Amazonas state where is there is low presence of police and local authorities.
Be aware of safety procedures on board vessels and check the location of life jackets, including for children if travelling with them. Boat accidents on the Amazon River are not uncommon.
North-east Brazil
Theft in north-east Brazil
The most common incidents affecting British nationals in north-east Brazil are theft from hotel and motel rooms and muggings. Reduce the risk of being mugged by avoiding quiet or deserted areas and by using taxis after sunset instead of walking.
