Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

The COVID-19 global pandemic has greatly reduced travel routes between Brazil and the UK. Direct commercial flights ceased on 3rd April.
There are still a number of scheduled indirect flights to get back to the UK via Europe or the US. We continue to urge any UK tourists still in Brazil to take these options immediately, while they remain available, as their capacity is limited. We will continue to update information on how to return to UK on our Twitter feed.
The UK Government is working closely with commercial airlines to provide charter flights for British tourists and visitors around the world to return to the UK. Passengers are required to pay, and these are being arranged from countries where individuals are at greatest risk and where no commercial options are available. This does not currently include Brazil.
If you are a British national visiting Brazil, and may need help returning to the UK, please complete this form. British Nationals resident in Brazil should not complete the form.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Flights
Direct commercial flights from Brazil to the UK ended on 3rd April. The following airlines are still operating indirect routes back to the UK from Brazil:
Air France
KLM
Lufthansa
Other options maybe available.
These details are subject to change and there could be travel restrictions if you are connecting. Please check directly with the airline.
We will provide regular updates on our Twitter page.
Travelling to the airport
Some domestic flights are also being impacted by travel restrictions and cancellations due to reduced demand. We advise booking your domestic connecting flight on the same ticket as your international flight to the UK, and to allow longer than usual for international connections. Some passengers have experienced cancellations that have added up to 24 hour delays to their domestic flights. You should also check the status of your flight regularly so that you can rebook an earlier departure if your domestic connecting flight is cancelled.
Arrival in the UK
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
There may be restrictions on public transit to airports. We advise checking locally before you travel and allow additional time to reach airports.
Road
Some states have put in place restrictions on interstate travel and the situation could change quickly. We advise you check with your tour operator or car hire rental firm before making your journey. See the Safety and Security section.
Further information
You should now:
Contact your airline, travel company or transport provider as soon as possible to book your travel back to the UK.
If you have travel insurance, you should also contact your insurance company. Some policies may have restrictions relating to pandemics, and most do not provide cover when the FCO advises against travel. You should check the wording of your policy and consult your insurance company if you are unsure about your cover.
Ensure there are no travel restrictions if you are connecting.
Keep up-to-date with our travel advice. Sign-up to email alerts to be notified if the situation changes.
Be prepared that your plans may need to change at short notice.
Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British Embassy on Embassy Twitter, HMA Twitter feed, Facebook, Instagram
