This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Brazil as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Brazil to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Brazil
For information on entering Brazil, see Entry Requirements.
In many parts of the country non-essential services are closed, including many shops, bars, restaurants, and gyms. In some cases local and intercity transport has also been suspended or is operating a reduced service. Supermarkets, bakeries, pharmacies and health centres remain open and many restaurants are offering food delivery services.
Individual cities in Brazil are taking different approaches to prevent the spread of COVID-19. The use of face masks in public and in some private areas providing essential services (such as supermarkets) is now compulsory in various cities including São Paulo, Rio de Janeiro, Belo Horizonte and Brasília. Some cities such as Belém do Pará, São Luis do Maranhão and Fortaleza are also operating under lockdown restrictions. You should refer to official guidance in your location for details of what preventative measures are in place and how you can comply with them.
Visas
Migration deadlines, including for tourists, have been temporarily suspended. Any time spent in Brazil after 16 March 2020 will not count towards your permitted length of stay.
Health
The public healthcare system in some states in Brazil are reaching their full capacity which might affect services such as accident & emergency care. Some private hospitals are no longer accepting credit card payments for admissions and only accepting patients with valid health insurance.
Check if your travel or health insurance has comprehensive cover for coronavirus and refer to official channels in your location for further details.
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Brazil.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Brazil, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
