Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Papua New Guinea on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
Commercial flights to and from Papua New Guinea remain very limited. Check with your travel company for the latest information.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Papua New Guinea.
Returning to the UK
Travelling from and returning to the UK
Check what you must do to travel abroad and return to England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
If you plan to pass through another country to return to the UK, check the travel advice for the country you’re transiting. If you will pass through a red list country, book your hotel quarantine package before travelling to the UK.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there. In the event that you test positive at the time of check-in at the airport you will need to isolate at home or quarantine at an approved COVID-19 health facility. For more information see the Air Niugini website, the main airline still operating out of Papua New Guinea.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Papua New Guinea
The latest information on the measures in place to tackle COVID-19 in Papua New Guinea can be found on the official Papua New Guinea Government website.
Healthcare in Papua New Guinea
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Papua New Guinea.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Papua New Guinea
We will update this page when the Government of Papua New Guinea announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Papua New Guinea national vaccine programme started in May 2021 and is using the AstraZeneca, Johnson & Johnson and Sinopharm vaccines. British nationals resident in Papua New Guinea are eligible for vaccination if they choose to join the programme. Further information on the vaccination programme is available on the National Control Centre for Covid-19 website or the Papua New Guinea National Department of Health Facebook page.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad page of gov.uk.
If you’re a British national living in Papua New Guinea, you should also seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, see our financial assistance guidance.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements. The Papua New Guinea authorities have issued a list of organisations approved to conduct testing.
Further information
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, see our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British High Commission on +675 303 7600. However, the High Commission cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone.
