This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Papua New Guinea set and enforce entry rules. For further information contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to. You should also consider checking with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Entry rules in response to coronavirus (COVID-19)
Entry to Papua New Guinea
Commercial options for travel to and from Papua New Guinea remain very limited. If transiting through another country, it is important that you also check the latest requirements for transit through that country.
Nobody may enter Papua New Guinea unless they have written exemption from the National Pandemic Controller or his delegate, and evidence of a negative Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) test result for COVID-19 taken within a 72 hour period prior to boarding at their first port of departure for Papua New Guinea. You should not use the NHS testing service to get a test in order to facilitate your travel to another country. You should arrange to take a private test.
International visitors should apply for their exemption to enter Papua New Guinea by emailing the National Control Centre Travel Desk at covid19-travel@police.gov.pg with the following documents:
completed International Air Passenger Travel Form (I-APTF)
letter to the National Pandemic Controller, including your reason for travel, visa details, passport details (including the expiry date) and, if applicable, your work permit details (or letter from your employer) and/or resident permit details
copy of your passport biodata page
copy of your visa for Papua New Guinea and, if applicable, a copy of your work permit and/or resident permit
copy of your reservation at a designated hotel for quarantine or home quarantine request (if applicable)
proof of vaccination (if applicable)
You should submit your completed documents at least two weeks prior to travel. Approvals will not be granted for the purpose of tourism, unless provided with a written exemption from the National Pandemic Controller.
You will need to show evidence of your vaccination (if applicable), approved exemptions, negative COVID-19 test and hotel reservation (if applicable) to be allowed to board a flight to Papua New Guinea. (See ‘Demonstrating your COVID-19 status’). You must also complete an online electronic health declaration form prior to departure. The barcode generated should be saved and provided at check-in as evidence of submission of the online form.
Individuals who are fully vaccinated will not be required to quarantine unless they have (in the previous 14 days) been in a country that is deemed “high risk” (currently India and the Philippines). All incoming arrivals will be tested for COVID-19 at the airport. Anyone testing positive will be required to quarantine at their own expense.
Citizens and Permanent Residents who are unvaccinated or partially vaccinated or individuals coming from a country designated “high risk” (regardless of vaccination status) will be required to quarantine for a period of 14 days. Unvaccinated arrivals will be tested on day 7 and day 12 of quarantine.
All arrivals will also be subject to monitoring through either an approved tracking device or tracking application at their own cost. Full details are available on the official Papua New Guinea Government COVID-19 website (see Measure 2 – International Travel).
Face masks must be worn on all domestic flights. All domestic travellers must submit a health declaration form to the Provincial Health Authority on arrival. Domestic airline travellers may need to be tested for COVID-19. Testing requirements for domestic travel are at the discretion of each province, and travellers should check the latest requirements with their travel agent.
All provinces are now designated either “high risk” or “medium risk”. All persons travelling into or out of a “high risk” province must be tested for COVID-19 prior to travel, be fully vaccinated, have a valid reason for travel and have written approval from the Provincial Administrator. Additional details regarding new measures in “high risk” and “medium risk” provinces can be found on the Papua New Guinea Government COVID-19 website (see Measure 3 – Domestic Travel) . Separate arrangements apply for travel to the Autonomous Region of Bougainville.
Demonstrating your COVID-19 status
Papua New Guinea has not yet confirmed that it will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 recovery and vaccination record. You should confirm this directly with your airline. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination.
Regular entry requirements
Visas
If you are visiting Papua New Guinea and your visa is due to expire because you are unable to travel due to COVID-19 you should refer to the Papua New Guinea ICA website for advice on extending your visa.
You need a visa to enter Papua New Guinea. Some airlines might need evidence that you have a visa to enter Papua New Guinea prior to travel. You should check with your airline before travelling. Entry clearance for Papua New Guinea can be arranged on-line through Papua New Guinea ICA. Entry requirements can change so check the latest information with the Papua New Guinea Immigration & Citizenship Authority before travelling.
Passport validity
Your passport should be valid for a minimum period of 6 months from the date of entry into Papua New Guinea.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents are accepted for entry, airside transit and exit from Papua New Guinea.
