At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Health risks
There is an ongoing outbreak of coronavirus in China. The virus originated in Wuhan City, Hubei Province but cases have been confirmed in other parts of China and in some countries in the region. You should comply with any additional screening measures put in place by the Papua New Guinea authorities. Further advice is available from Public Health England and the TravelHealthPro website.
The Papua New Guinea Secretary of the National Department of Health has declared an outbreak of Polio in Morobe, Madang, and Eastern Highlands provinces and Port Moresby. Cases have been confirmed in Port Moresby, Morobe and Enga provinces with reports of several more.
UK health authorities have classified Papua New Guinea as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For information and advice about the risks associated with Zika virus, visit the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
For information and advice about the risks associated with Zika virus, visit the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
Cases of Chikungunya virus have been confirmed in Papua New Guinea. Dengue fever is also present. You should take steps to avoid being bitten by mosquitoes.
The Papua New Guinea government has launched a national tuberculosis awareness campaign in response to the rapidly growing number of TB cases in the country. Cases of drug resistant TB have been reported in Western and Gulf province and in Port Moresby.
Local medical care
Medical facilities in Papua New Guinea are very basic. Hospitals often run out of basic drugs/supplies and suffer from power shortages. Evacuation by air ambulance to Australia is available in more serious cases. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 111 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
