Papua New Guinea sits along a volatile seismic strip called the “Ring of Fire” in the Pacific. Volcanic eruptions, earthquakes and tsunamis are possible. Seismic and volcanic activity is more likely to occur near Rabaul in East New Britain Province, Kimbe in West New Britain Province, and on Manam Island in Madang Province.
Earthquakes
A 7.5 magnitude earthquake occurred in February 2018, causing significant damage to the Highlands. There has been widespread disruption to services and a decrease in law and order in the affected area.
There is a constant danger from earthquakes, which can be followed by tsunami warnings.
To learn more about what to do before, during and after an earthquake, see the website of the US Federal Emergency Management Agency.
Volcanoes
Papua New Guinea has a number of active and extinct volcanoes.
Mount Ulawun volcano erupted on 3 August. Air Niugini have suspended flights to Hoskins airport. Visitors should check with their airline/travel operator if visiting New Britain
Manam Island volcano, one of Papua New Guinea’s most active, erupted on 25 August 2018 forcing thousands to flee to the mainland. Further activity occurred in December 2018.
Kadovar Island volcano erupted in January 2018, leading to an evacuation of the island.
Mount Ulawun volcano in West New Britain province last erupted on 26 June 2019. Villages closest to the volcano were evacuated and parts of the New Britain Highway cut off by lava flow. If you’re planning travel in affected areas, check with your travel provider or airline before travelling.
Tropical cyclones
The tropical cyclone season normally runs from November to May. Monitor local and international weather updates from the World Meteorological Organisation (WMO) and the Australian Bureau of Meteorology.
See our tropical cyclones page for advice about what to do if you are caught up in a storm.
Floods
Flooding and landslides can occur, especially in rural areas. Coastal areas experience monthly King Tides, which may cause localised flooding. Local communities are fairly well adapted to cope.
