Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

There are currently no commercial options available to return to the UK from Papua New Guinea. Although international passenger flights are still operating from Port Moresby to Brisbane and Cairns, there are no suitable onward connecting flights from these destinations. Entry to Australia is also currently only permitted to Australian citizens or permanent residents. Travellers who have a compassionate or compelling reason to transit through Australia can apply to the Australian authorities for an exemption via an online form. To transit, you will need to have connecting flights booked in advance within a strict timeframe as well as a valid visa.
There is a service operating from Port Moresby to Singapore but that is currently for cargo only. No short-term visitors from anywhere in the world can enter or transit through Singapore.
What to do
If you cannot leave Papua New Guinea at this time, you should:
follow the advice of local authorities, including local measures to help minimise your risk of exposure to coronavirus
keep in regular contact with family and friends at home, so they know you are safe and well
Future travel options
The UK government is working closely with airlines and other governments to make sure options are available for you to return to the UK as soon as possible. This travel advice will be updated when departure options become available.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Arrival in the UK
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Help and Support
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British High Commission on +675 3030 7600.
The High Commission cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone. This page will be updated when departure options become available.
Further information
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
