!
Warning
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to parts of Papua New Guinea.

This guide also has safety advice for regions of Papua New Guinea.
Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.    
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Papua New Guinea
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Papua New Guinea, attacks cannot be ruled out.
Tribal fighting
Outbreaks of tribal fighting are common across Papua New Guinea, including tourist areas. Ethnic disputes can quickly escalate and lead to widespread destruction of property, disruption of normal services and serious injury. Tribal fighters may be armed.
Although tribal fighters do not normally attack foreign nationals, you should stay away from areas where there is fighting.
Stay alert, monitor local media and consult local contacts such as your hotel before you travel to a new area. Be particularly cautious in the suburbs of Port Moresby and the Highlands Region. See Regional risks.
Crime
There is a high risk of serious crime in the capital, Port Moresby, and in the cities of Lae and Mount Hagen. Suburbs of towns and cities can be particularly dangerous.
High-risk crime areas include the:
area around Parliament House in the Port Moresby suburb of Waigani, particularly outside of working hours
highway between Lae and Nadzab Airport
Protecting yourself and your belongings
There is a serious risk of bag-snatching and robbery. Criminals often use machetes (‘bush knives’) and firearms in assaults and thefts. They target people who are using banks and ATMs.
Walking after dark is particularly dangerous in Port Moresby and other urban centres.
You can take precautions such as:
not displaying valuables like laptops, cameras and mobile phones
not wearing expensive-looking jewellery
carrying only small amounts of cash – avoid withdrawing a lot of money, particularly at night
keeping valuables secure (for example, in a hotel safe)
not travelling alone or at night
monitoring the media for possible new security risks
Vehicle crime
Carjacking and other types of vehicle crime are common. Criminals use roadblocks outside towns to stop and loot vehicles and then attack the occupants.
If you plan travel in these areas, particularly after dark, take great care and consider travelling in convoy or using a security escort. Always lock car doors and keep windows up.
Public buses and taxis
Armed criminals have attacked and robbed passengers on public buses (known as ‘PMVs’) and in taxis. There have also been incidents of rape on Port Moresby PMVs. Many PMVs and taxis are not roadworthy.
Rape and sexual assault
Rape and sexual assault are common in Papua New Guinea. Stay alert and leave travel plans with friends, relatives or reliable local contacts. See advice for women travelling abroad.
Kokoda Track
There have been serious attacks and robberies along the Kokoda Track. Although community leaders have assured tourists of their safety and wellbeing while walking the Kokoda Track, you should take care. Avoid walking independently and travel with guides from trusted travel companies. You can get details from the Papua New Guinea Tourism Authority or the Kokoda Track Authority.
Criminal kidnapping
Organised gangs have abducted people and forced them to open office safes while others are held captive until a ransom has been paid. A foreign national was kidnapped in a remote part of Southern Highlands Province in 2023. Be vigilant and leave travel plans with friends, relatives or reliable local contacts.
Unexploded weapons
There are unexploded World War 2 weapons in Papua New Guinea, particularly along the Kokoda Track, at Milne Bay and Rabaul. If you are concerned, get advice from a trusted travel company for the areas you’re visiting.
Laws and cultural differences
Illegal drugs and prison sentences
It is a serious offence to use, possess or traffic illegal drugs, including marijuana. If convicted, you can get a long prison sentence.
LGBT+ travellers
Same-sex sexual activity between men is illegal. People who are convicted face up to 14 years imprisonment. Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Outdoor activities and adventure tourism
If you plan to participate in outdoor or adventure activities, consider getting advice on safety from a trusted travel company. You can get information from the Papua New Guinea Tourism Authority.      
Transport risks
Road travel    
If you are planning to drive in Papua New Guinea, see information on driving abroad.
You can use a UK photocard driving licence to drive in Papua New Guinea for the first 6 months after you arrive. If you still have a paper driving licence, you may need to update it to a photocard licence or get the correct version of the international driving permit (IDP) as well.
See rules for using a foreign driving licence in Papua New Guinea.
Hire car companies often have stricter requirements for their customers, such as a year of driving experience, a higher minimum age and holding an IDP.
Road conditions
Roads are in a poor state of repair, especially in rural areas, and driving is often erratic.
Following a road traffic accident, crowds can form quickly and become violent towards those they consider responsible. If you are involved in an accident, do not remain at the scene. Go to the nearest safe place before reporting the incident to the police.
Air travel
Delays and cancellations of international and domestic flights often happen. Check with your airline before travel.
Extreme weather and natural disasters
Papua New Guinea is in an active seismic region known as the ‘Ring of Fire’. Volcanic eruptions, earthquakes and tsunamis are possible.
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards.
Earthquakes
Earthquakes are a serious risk in Papua New Guinea. Seismic and volcanic activity is more likely near Rabaul in East New Britain Province, Kimbe in West New Britain Province and on Manam Island in Madang Province.
There was a 6.9 magnitude earthquake in the New Britain Region, Papua New Guinea at 06:04:39 local time, 5 Apr 2025. The advice is to follow emergency instructions from local authorities.
The US Federal Emergency Management Agency website has advice about what to do before, during and after an earthquake.
Tsunamis
Earthquakes can be followed by tsunamis. The US Federal Emergency Management Agency website has advice about what to do before, during and after a tsunami.
Volcanic eruptions
Papua New Guinea has many active and dormant volcanoes. You should check with your travel provider or airline and seek advice from local authorities before travelling to affected areas.
In November 2023, Mount Ulawun volcano erupted on the island of New Britain and caused flight cancellations and the evacuation of over 5,000 people. It has shown further low-level activity since then, most recently in March 2025.
Increased volcanic activity at Mount Bagana in Bougainville in 2023 resulted in widespread displacement of local residents. Some low-level activity continues.
Manam Island volcano erupted in 2018, forcing thousands to flee to the mainland. It has shown further low-level activity since then, most recently in 2024.
Tropical cyclones
The tropical cyclone season normally runs from November to May. Monitor local and international weather updates from the World Meteorological Organization and the Australian Bureau of Meteorology.
Flooding
There is a risk of flooding and landslides, especially in rural areas and during monsoon season from November to May. Exceptionally high tides (‘king tides’) can cause flooding in coastal areas.
Damage caused by heavy rain can make travel difficult.
