The following advice for Papua New Guinea remains in place:
The Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advise against all but essential travel to:
Hela and Southern Highlands provinces following significantly increased levels of tribal fighting and the declaration of states of emergency by the Papua New Guinea government.
Travel to Papua New Guinea is subject to entry restrictions
Nobody may enter Papua New Guinea except for health workers, flight crew, military personnel or those with a special written exemption from the Emergency Controller.
Although international passenger flights are still operating from Port Moresby to Brisbane and Cairns, there are currently extremely limited commercial options from these destinations.
Entry to Australia is also currently only permitted to Australian citizens or permanent residents.
See Entry requirements for more information before you plan to travel.
Return travel to the UK is subject to self-isolation requirements
If you’re returning to the UK, you will need to:
provide your journey and contact details
self-isolate for 14 days
Check the guidance on entering or returning to the UK.
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
If you’re planning travel to Papua New Guinea , find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCO’s guidance on foreign travel insurance.
Nobody may enter Papua New Guinea except for health workers, flight crew, military personnel or those with a special written exemption from the Emergency Controller. International visitors should apply for the exemption, including the reasons for visiting, by contacting COVID-19 admin logistics
There has been heavier than usual tribal fighting in Enga and Western Highlands provinces. If you’re planning to travel to these provinces, you should take greater care than usual and consider enhanced security precautions.
Outbreaks of tribal violence may occur with little warning and may escalate very quickly. You should avoid large crowds and public gatherings as they may turn violent. See Crime
There is a high level of serious and violent crime. Law and order is poor or very poor in many parts of the country. Pay close attention to your personal security, particularly after dark, and monitor the media for possible new security risks. See Crime and Local travel
Carjacking is an ever present threat, particularly in Port Moresby and Lae. Lock car doors and keep windows up at all times. If possible travel in convoy or with a security escort after dark. See Crime
UK health authorities have classified Papua New Guinea as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For information and advice about the risks associated with Zika virus, visit the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
Papua New Guinea has declared an outbreak of Polio. There have been confirmed cases in Port Moresby and Morobe and Enga provinces.
Papua New Guinea is prone to seasonal natural disasters including tropical cyclones and flash flooding. Monitor the latest weather reports. See Natural disasters
Monsoon season in Papua New Guinea runs from November to May. The National Weather Service has forecast heavy rain and strong wind for the 2019 season. This could lead to flooding and landslides. See Natural disasters
Although there’s is no recent history of terrorism in Papua New Guinea, attacks can’t be ruled out. See Terrorism
Consular support is limited outside of Port Moresby and severely limited where the FCO advise against all but essential travel.
If you need consular support, contact the British High Commission in Port Moresby.
