Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Afghanistan on the TravelHealthPro website.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
Some international flights have resumed to and from Kabul.
Be aware travel disruption is still possible and that flights can be postponed or cancelled at short notice. Keep checking local media and with local travel agents and airlines for the most up to date information on flight operations and to find out about any screening requirements that might affect you.
From 4am 15 January, pre-departure COVID-19 testing will be required for passengers travelling to Scotland from outside the Common Travel Area. From 4am 18 January, pre-departure COVID-19 testing will also be required for all in-bound passengers travelling to England. Travelers are responsible for organising their own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government requirements. Many airlines operating from Afghanistan already require passengers to present a COVID-19 negative certificate for travel. Some airline pre-departure test timings (96 hours) for Afghanistan arrivals may be different to UK pre-departure test timings (72 hours) for UK arrivals. Contact your airline or travel provider for details of local test centres and procedures.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Afghanistan.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Afghanistan
Travel in Afghanistan is dangerous and if you’re travelling, including in Kabul, you should seek professional security advice and continually reassess your personal security.
There are only minor COVID-19 related restrictions on internal travel. Specific measures vary between provinces and domestic flights are operating on a limited basis.
Accommodation
Most hotels and restaurants are open and have been instructed to follow COVID-19 guidelines, including asking customers to wear masks.
Public places and services
Sports and music events, along with bars, cinemas, museums and gyms are all closed. Restaurants and some shops have opened.
Healthcare in Afghanistan
Healthcare in Afghanistan is very limited. Medical facilities, including those in Kabul, do not have the capacity or capability to effectively deal with the COVID-19 outbreak. The supply of ICU beds and ventilators is low. There are areas which have no medical facilities with ICU beds and ventilators. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad, evacuation by air ambulance and repatriation.
Whilst an estimated 30 per cent of the population had been exposed to COVID-19 by June 2020, WHO warns that widespread complacency and failure to follow public health advice is creating grave risks in the community with people generally not observing physical distancing or mask-wearing protocols.
If you’re in Afghanistan and displaying symptoms of coronavirus, you should seek medical advice while self-isolating. The advice from the Afghan Ministry of Public Health is that if you’re displaying symptoms, call 166 and they will guide you on what to do next. The advisors only speak Dari (press option 1) or Pashto (option 2). You should also contact your insurance or medical assistance company.
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Afghanistan.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Afghanistan
As information is available about the national vaccination programme, this page will be updated.
The Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) is the UK authority responsible for assessing the safety, quality and efficacy of vaccines. It has authorised the Pfizer/BioNTech, Oxford/AstraZeneca and Moderna vaccines for temporary supply and use in the UK. Find out more about MHRA approval for these vaccines.
British nationals living overseas should seek medical advice from their local healthcare provider in the country where they reside. Information about vaccines used in other national programmes, including regulatory status, should be available from the local authorities. This list of Stringent Regulatory Authorities recognised by the World Health Organisation may also be a useful source of additional information. Find out more information about the COVID-19 vaccines on the World Health Organization COVID-19 vaccines page.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
