The guidance on this page covers arrival by air to Kabul and reflects the FCDO’s current understanding of requirements. The FCDO maintains its advice against all travel to Afghanistan and advise all British nationals still in Afghanistan to leave now because of the security situation. There are also COVID-19 related restrictions on travel to Afghanistan.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Afghanistan set and enforce entry rules. For further information contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to. You should also consider checking with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Entry rules in response to coronavirus (COVID-19)
Entry to Afghanistan
The IATA now states that a negative pre-departure COVID-19 PCR test result is required for entering Afghanistan. We advise against all travel to Afghanistan. Travellers are advised to check with their travel provider and follow individual airline requirements on this. However, due to the security situation the FCDO advise against all travel to the whole of the country.
Testing on arrival
There is currently no testing on arrival.
Quarantine requirements
There are currently no compulsory quarantine requirements or temperature checks at the airports.
Data collection
If you choose to travel to Afghanistan against FCDO advice, visitors will be asked to complete a landing form detailing their visit, including passport and visa information, as is standard practice in many other countries.
Testing on departure
Many airlines currently require passengers to present a COVID-19 negative certificate in order to travel out of Afghanistan. From 15 January, pre-departure COVID-19 testing will be required for passengers travelling to Scotland from outside the Common Travel Area. From 18 January, pre-departure COVID-19 testing will also be required for all in-bound passengers travelling to England. Travelers are responsible for organising their own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government requirements. Please note some airline pre-departure test timings (96 hours) for Afghanistan departures/arrivals may be different to UK pre-departure test timings (72 hours) for UK arrivals. Contact your airline or travel provider for details of local test centres and procedures.
Regular entry requirements
Visas
We advise against all travel to Afghanistan. If you choose to travel against this advice, you must get a visa before travelling to Afghanistan. You cannot get a visa on arrival. If you’re intending to work in Afghanistan against FCDO advice and do not hold a Diplomatic or Official passport you will need a work permit which in turn needs a medical certificate. For further information contact the Embassy of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan in London, including information on any changes in visa process during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic.
Passport validity
Your passport should be valid for a minimum period of 6 months from the date of entry into Afghanistan.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are not valid for entry into Afghanistan. However, ETDs are accepted for exit from Afghanistan although a local exit visa may also be required before holders can leave. This will depend on circumstances and may take time to process. You will also be required to obtain a local police report for all lost or stolen passports. Consular staff will offer further advice and information on an individual case by case basis.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
Travelling with children
If you’re travelling alone with a child you may need to produce documentary evidence of parental responsibility. The FCDO does not allow staff based in Afghanistan to travel with their partners or children. For further information on exactly what is needed at immigration, contact the Embassy of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan in London.
