!
Warning
FCDO advises against all travel to Afghanistan.

The Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) cannot provide tailored advice for individual trips. Read this travel advice and carry out your own research before deciding whether to travel.
Emergency services in Afghanistan
Telephone: 119 (police)
Contact your travel provider and insurer
Contact your travel provider and your insurer if you are involved in a serious incident or emergency abroad. They will tell you if they can help and what you need to do. 
Refunds and changes to travel
For refunds or changes to travel, contact your travel provider. You may also be able to make a claim through insurance. However, insurers usually require you to talk to your travel provider first.
Find out more about changing or cancelling travel plans, including:
where to get advice if you are in a dispute with a provider
how to access previous versions of travel advice to support a claim
Support from FCDO 
There is no British Embassy in Afghanistan and our ability to provide help to British nationals is severely limited and cannot be delivered in person.
The UK government cannot help British nationals who are in Afghanistan and who wish to leave. Anyone who wants to leave Afghanistan should do so by commercial means or through a land border. FCDO cannot advise on the safety of routes to leave Afghanistan.
FCDO has guidance on staying safe and what to do if you need help or support abroad, including:
getting help if you’re a victim of crime
what to do if you’re in hospital
if you’re affected by a crisis, such as a terrorist attack
For information about applying for a British passport, or to check on your passport application, see overseas British passport applications or call the Passport Adviceline.
Contacting FCDO
Help abroad  
See how to get help from the UK government abroad including in an emergency. 
Help in the UK  
You can call FCDO in London if you need urgent help because something has happened to a friend or relative abroad.  
Telephone: 020 7008 5000 (24 hours)  
Find out about call charges
Get travel advice updates  
Sign up to get email notifications when this travel advice is updated.  
Follow FCDO:
travel advice on X
travel advice on Facebook
