At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Coronavirus
There is an ongoing outbreak of coronavirus (COVID-19), including in Afghanistan. The Afghan authorities have introduced a number of measures to limit the spread of the virus including point of entry screening at 3 international airports and 11 international crossings. Not everyone is being screened, but those who are and who show a temperature (of more than 38 degrees Celsius) may be quarantined and sent direct to one of 2 national hospitals (Kabul Infectious Disease and Afghan-Japan Communicable Disease Hospital in Kabul) or 5 provincial hospitals for isolation. These hospitals are outside of the Enhanced Security Zone. You should comply with any additional screening measures put in place by the authorities.
The National Security Council of Afghanistan has announced that all travel to and from Iran has been temporarily banned to limit the spread of coronavirus.
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
You can find more information about cases in Afghanistan on the TravelHealthPro website.
Other health risks
Diarrhoeal diseases and other gastrointestinal infections are common causes of ill health, becoming worse in the hotter months.  
The dry dusty conditions in summer and winter can cause irritation to the eyes, throat, nose and skin.
Respiratory tuberculosis is common in the Afghan population. 
Malaria is present except in the high mountainous regions of the country and in winter. 
Local medical care
Only very limited medical facilities are available in Afghanistan. Make sure you have all the prescription medication you need during your visit. Supplies are unlikely to be available locally.  Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 112 or 020 112 from mobile (in Kabul only) and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
