

There are no formal rule of law structures or processes in place in Afghanistan, and foreign nationals, including British nationals, have been detained without due process – see Safety and Security section above. Afghanistan is an Islamic country and you should respect local traditions, customs, and religions at all times. Be particularly careful during the holy month of Ramadan or if you intend to visit religious areas. See our guidance on travelling during Ramadan.
The Taliban have decreed codes of behaviour and dress for both men and women and these codes can be strictly enforced including for dual nationals. In public places women are expected to be fully covered, including their faces. Their bodies, arms and legs must be concealed by loose clothing, their hair covered with a headscarf and a veil must cover their face. Men are expected to dress modestly and should remain sensitive to Islamic culture. This includes not wearing clothing items such as sleeveless shirts or shorts.
The Taliban have also decreed that women are not permitted to move around Afghanistan or travel without being accompanied by a mahram, (a husband, father or brother). This could also affect a dual national woman’s ability to depart from Afghanistan unless escorted by a mahram.
Homosexuality is strictly prohibited under the Taliban and has historically always been illegal in Afghanistan. See our information and advice page for the LGBT community before you travel. It is forbidden to seek to convert Muslims to other faiths.
You are not allowed to use, or bring into the country narcotics, alcohol or pork products.
Photographing government or Taliban buildings, military installations and palaces is not allowed and may lead to detention. Avoid photographing local people without their agreement.
You should not buy or export historical antiquities without a receipt from an authorised supplier or dealer. When you leave Afghanistan you may be asked for proof that you bought the item. If you do not have a receipt, you could be detained and you may face a fine or prison sentence.
