There are an increasing number of commercial options available to return to the UK from Afghanistan.
Qatar Airways flights on 27 June and 4 and 7 July 2020
Qatar Airways will operate commercial flights from Kabul to the UK, via Doha on Saturday 27 June and Saturday 4 and Tuesday 7 July 2020.
These are not UK government charter flights. They are available to all nationals. Seats are being sold on a first-come, first-served basis via this Qatar Airways online portal.
Emirates Airline flights resume 25 June
Emirates Airline will be operating flights to/from Kabul from 25 June, initially three times per week.
These are not UK government charter flights. They are available to all nationals. To book, visit the Emirates Airline online booking site.
Turkish Airlines flights resume 24 June
Turkish Airlines will be operating two commerical flights per week to/from Kabul until end June and then four flights per week as of 1 July 2020.
These are not UK government charter flights. They are available to all nationals. To book, visit the Turkish Airlines online booking site.
Your journey home: re-entering the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK. You:
need to provide your journey and contact details up to 48 hours before you’re due to arrive in the UK
are not allowed to leave the place you’re staying for the first 14 days you’re in the UK except in very limited situations (known as ‘self-isolating’)
See also the list of people who are exempt from the border rules.
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) also provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
Future travel options
Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British Embassy on Twitter. Keep also checking local media and with local travel agents and airlines for the most up to date information on flight operations.
See more information and advice about staying in Afghanistan if you cannot return to the UK.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
For questions about travel insurance, contact your insurance provider and if you’re not happy with their response, you can complain to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
