This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Afghanistan as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Afghanistan to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Afghanistan
On 28 March, restrictions came into effect in Kabul limiting movement. These include halting all public buses carrying more than 4 people, closing wedding halls and shrines, with only critical services including food shops remaining open. Travel to and from Kabul to other provinces in Afghanistan has also been stopped. You will need to give a valid reason (such as medical, security or caring for someone) for leaving your residence if asked by the authorities. Keep checking local media for the most up to date information on restrictions.
Health
If you are in Afghanistan and displaying symptoms of coronavirus, you should seek medical advice while self-isolating. The advice from the Afghan Ministry of Public Health is that if you are displaying symptoms, call 166 and they will guide you on what to do next. Please note the advisors only speak Dari (press option 1) or Pashto (option 2). You should also contact your insurance or medical assistance company.
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Afghanistan.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
You can find more information about cases in Afghanistan on the TravelHealthPro website.
