Coronavirus: stay up to date
Cases of coronavirus (COVID-19) have been confirmed in Afghanistan. See information on measures introduced in Afghanistan to limit the spread of the virus. Find out how to return to the UK from Afghanistan.
See coronavirus travel advice for guidance on international travel.
Sign up for email alerts for Afghanistan travel advice.
The Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) is advising British nationals against all non-essential international travel at this time. Existing advice for Afghanistan remains in place:
The FCO advise against all but essential travel to:
the Enhanced Security Zone in Kabul
Hamid Karzai International Airport, Kabul
Panjshir province
the city of Bamian in Bamian province
The FCO advise against all travel to:
all other areas of Kabul and the rest of Afghanistan.
Cases of coronavirus (COVID-19) have been confirmed in Afghanistan. The Afghan authorities have introduced a number of measures to limit the spread of the virus. For more information, see Coronavirus
If you live in the UK and are currently travelling in Afghanistan, you are strongly advised to return now, where and while there are still commercial routes available. You should contact airlines and travel agents immediately and keep up to date with the latest developments. International travel is becoming very limited as air routes close, land borders close and new restrictions are put in place that prevent flights from leaving. See Return to the UK
If you are a permanent resident overseas, you should stay and follow the advice of local authorities.
Since 19 March non-core British Embassy staff in Kabul, have been withdrawn from Post. Core staff remain to continue operational work.
Consular support is not available in parts of Afghanistan where the FCO advise against all travel and severely limited where the FCO advise against all but essential travel. The level of consular assistance the British Embassy can provide to travellers in Afghanistan is extremely limited. There are limits to the assistance the FCO can provide in a crisis, depending on the security and transport situation. You should not assume that the FCO will be able to provide assistance to leave the country in the event of serious unrest.
The British Embassy is not able to accept registrations from British nationals travelling in Afghanistan or monitor their safety when they are in country. Staff from the British Embassy may be unable to travel to certain parts of the country due to the security situation; this may severely limit the consular assistance that can be offered. Travel by road throughout the country, but particularly outside the capital Kabul, is extremely dangerous. Seek professional security advice for all travel and consider using armoured vehicles.
Hotels and guesthouses used by foreign nationals and the government of Afghanistan are subject to regular threats. The British Embassy doesn’t allow official visitors to stay in hotels overnight and has placed restaurants and other venues off limits to staff. Make sure your accommodation is secure and review your security measures regularly.
Terrorists are very likely to try to carry out attacks in Afghanistan. Specific methods of attack are evolving and increasing in sophistication. You should note an overall increased threat to Western interests in Kabul. Follow the instructions of local authorities. There is a high threat of kidnapping throughout the country. See Terrorism
Following the death of Iranian General Qasem Soleimani in a US strike in Baghdad on 3 January, the incident has led to increased tensions in the region. There is a possibility of an increased threat against Western interests and the security situation could worsen with little warning. You should remain vigilant and keep up to date with the latest developments, including via the media and this travel advice.
Take out comprehensive travel and medical insurance before you travel. Make sure your policy covers you for travel in Afghanistan, noting any requirements for security and armoured vehicles. It may be difficult to get insurance.
Afghanistan is in a major earthquake zone and remains at risk from powerful earthquakes, aftershocks, landslides and flooding. The British Embassy can provide limited consular assistance in Afghanistan, particularly outside the capital Kabul. See Natural disasters
You can contact the emergency services by calling 119 (police and ambulance) and 112 (fire). They are unlikely to speak English.
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.
