This page has information on travelling to the Falkland Islands. Check what you must do to return to the UK.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport from the UK, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in the Falkland Islands set and enforce entry rules.
All travellers
On arrival in the Falkland Islands you must have:
a passport valid for the proposed duration of your stay. No additional period of validity beyond this is required;
a return air ticket (or other evidence of pre paid onward travel);
evidence of accommodation with family/friends/hotel/business;
sufficient funds to cover your stay in the Islands.
British nationals do not need a visa to enter the Falkland Islands, but you may need a visa to transit Chile, Brazil, or Argentina.
Visitors are prohibited from taking paid employment without a work permit. Work permits can only be applied for outside of the Falkland Islands.
For further information on entry requirements, check with the Falkland Islands Government Office in London.
If you’re fully vaccinated
Even of you are fully vaccinated, travel to the Falkland Islands is currently restricted due to COVID-19. Visitors are limited to the following groups:
business visitors required for essential maintenance on equipment which would not otherwise be able to operate – eg, KEMH visiting engineers;
business visitors for the purpose of delivering projects within the Islands Plan;
crew from vessels associated with the Falkland Islands and SGSSI for the purpose of exchange and / or repatriation;
crew from vessels with no connection to the Falkland Islands for the purpose of exchange and / or repatriation where onward travel arrangements are confirmed and in place;
family members;
friends of relatives if sponsored by an Islands resident who us present in the Falkland Islands;
individuals already present in the Falkland Islands when LATAM flights were suspended;
media and film crews with press accreditation granted by the Falkland Islands Government;
other business visitors;
public guests who are sponsored by the Falkland Islands Government or the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office;
SAMA ((South Atlantic Medal Association) veterans and their immediate family members;
scientific and other maritime observers associated with the Falkland Islands and SGSSI for exchange and/or repatriation purposes;
scientists and researchers who are supported by the Falkland Islands Government
Visitors who meet the requirements detailed above will need to be approved through the COVID-19 application process before a flight can be booked.
Currently the Falkland Islands Government has a mandatory 10 days of quarantine, however, there is a “test to release” option under which you may be able to complete quarantine early, on day 5 or day 8 of your quarantine period, depending on your vaccination status.
In order to opt for the 5-day “test to release” you must provide proof you have completed the full course of a vaccination approved by the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) at least two weeks before your arrival in the Falkland Islands. These are currently: Oxford-AstraZeneca (two doses), Pfizer (two doses), Moderna (two doses), Janssen (single dose) or treatment with Ronapreve vaccines.
If you were fully vaccinated with an MHRA approved vaccine more than two weeks before arrival, you can opt for “5-day test to release” and leave quarantine on day 5 of quarantine (if you test negative twice). On the first swab visit, the clinician will review your vaccine evidence, so please ensure you have this ready. The clinician must be satisfied with all vaccination documentation provided, whether that be the NHS app, a vaccination card, a vaccination letter or a doctor’s note, otherwise you will only be eligible for the “8 day test to release” option.
Proof of vaccination status
All travellers to the Falkland Islands aged two years and over need to provide proof of a negative PCR test for COVID-19 no more than five days before arrival in Senegal and the Falkland Islands. This is a requirement of the Republic of Senegal and the Falkland Islands Government and it applies to those travelling to the Falkland Islands.
Falkland Island will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 recovery and vaccination record and proof of COVID-19 vaccination issued in the Crown Dependencies. Your final vaccine dose must have been administered at least 14 days prior to travel. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
If you’re not fully vaccinated
If you are partially vaccinated or not vaccinated, you can opt for “8 day test to release” and leave quarantine on day 8 (if you test negative twice). If you are quarantining with unvaccinated children who you travelled with, you may only opt for “8 day test to release”. If you are quarantining with other arrivals into the Islands that are only partially vaccinated, or not vaccinated at all, even if you are fully vaccinated yourself, you may only opt for “8 day test to release”.
You will be offered a test within 48 hours of arrival, and again on either day 5 or day 8 (depending on your vaccination status and that of anyone who travelled with you and is quarantining with you). If both tests are negative, you will be informed that you may leave quarantine; you must wait for the KEMH to contact you on day 5 or 8 (as appropriate) before leaving quarantine.
If you or anyone you are sharing quarantine accommodation with test positive on either occasion you must remain in quarantine for the full 10 days. In this case you will be offered an additional swab on day 9 (prior to the end of the quarantine period on day 10) and you may be asked to continue to self-isolate after the end of the quarantine period, especially if you develop symptoms of coronavirus.
If you do not want to be tested while in quarantine you must remain in quarantine for the full 10 days as must everyone who is in quarantine with you.
If you’ve had COVID-19 in the past year
Requirements are the same regardless of whether you have had COVID-19 in the past year.
Children and young people
Children aged two and a half and younger do not need to provide proof of a negative PCR test for COVID-19.
If you’re transiting through Falklands Islands
It is not possible to transit through the Falkland Islands.
Exemptions
There are no exemptions in the Falkland Islands to the entry and quarantine requirements.
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
Passport validity
You should ensure that your passport and other travel documents meet entry requirements for the Falkland Islands.
If you are visiting the Falkland Islands, your passport should be valid from the date you arrive and for the proposed duration of your stay. No additional period of validity beyond this is required.
If you are a resident in the Falkland Islands, you must have a valid passport. There are no additional requirements relating to your passport.
Check with your travel provider to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Visas
If you are a visitor and hold a passport from one of the countries in the list on the Falkland Islands Government website, you will need to get a visa.
If you are seeking a work permit, the visa will be included as part of the work permit process.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents are accepted for entry, airside transit and exit from the Falkland Islands.
Returning to the UK
Check what you must do to return to the UK.
