At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
The general standard of healthcare in the Falkland Islands is good. The only hospital is located in Stanley and offers very modern facilities with medical, dental and nursing staff. There is no resident qualified optician. More complex treatments might require medical evacuation.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 999 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
Healthcare arrangements for visiting UK residents
Under a reciprocal arrangement with the NHS, all UK residents are entitled to receive the treatment below free while visiting the Falkland Islands. Evidence of UK residency (NHS medical card or passport) will be required.
Hospital treatment
Other medical treatment
Prescribed medicines
Ambulance travel
Make sure you have appropriate travel insurance cover for medical air ambulance evacuation.
