Weather
The weather can change rapidly and it is often possible to experience several seasons in a single day. The sun can be very strong, wear good sunglasses, a hat and high-factor sunscreen.
Air travel
If you arrive into the Falkland Islands by air you are expected to self-isolate for a period of 14 days. This can be reduced to 8 days using the test to release option outlined in the Quarantine Requirements section. You should call the hospital on 28000 for advice if you need medical help.
You can fly between the Islands with the Falkland Islands Government Air Service (FIGAS) who operate four Britten Norman ‘Islander’ aircraft from Stanley airport; book directly through FIGAS or with a local tour operator. Check that your flight has been confirmed the afternoon before you are due to fly. In bad weather, check your flight is going ahead before you travel to the airport.
LATAM normally operates two once weekly services to Mount Pleasant Airport, from Chile and Brazil. Neither of these routes are currently in operation. Check with LATAM in advance for up to date information on air services.
The RAF operates a fare-paying service from RAF Brize Norton to Mount Pleasant Airport twice weekly. Due to necessary repairs required to the Ascension Island runway, the Ministry of Defence has temporarily re-routed the flight (known as the South Atlantic Airbridge) via an alternative location.
This service can be subject to delays due to poor weather, especially during the southern hemisphere winter. Total journey time is approximately 22 hours. For further information and how to book this service visit the Falkland Islands Tourist Board website or contact the Falkland Islands Government Office.
Carry some US dollars in case the flight is diverted to South America or North Africa.
Other charter aircraft from the UK occasionally operate a route to the Falkland Islands depending on demand.
The Falkland Islands tourist board can advise further.
Sea Travel
Cruise vessels will be allowed to call into the Falkland Islands if:
Everyone on board has been on board for a minimum of 14 days
No-one on board is suffering from symptoms which makes them a “suspect case” for Covid-19.
The Falkland Island Government consider symptoms of a “suspect case” to include a fever and a cough, and a shortness of breath, if there is no other explanation for those symptoms.
Cruise vessels will be allowed to disembark passengers only to allow passengers to return home. Arrangements for this will be agreed between the cruise operator and the Falkland Islands Government, for example by direct charter flight.
Road travel
Four wheel drive vehicles are most commonly used. Roads in Stanley are surfaced, as is some of the 35-mile Mount Pleasant Airport to Stanley road. There are around 600 miles of unsurfaced roads on the Islands. Coach, local bus and taxi services to and from Mount Pleasant Airport are available and can be booked in advance. Taxis are available in Stanley. Speed limits are 25mph in the Stanley area and 40mph on other roads.
Because of the condition of most roads, and the strong winds, you should take great care when driving outside Stanley, especially on the road between Mount Pleasant Airport and Stanley. Deaths have occurred on this road and accidents are commonplace. Self-drive four-by-four vehicles are available for hire and a UK driving licence is sufficient. Laws on the wearing of seat belts and drink driving are strictly enforced.
Mines
Mines and unexploded ordnance from the 1982 conflict remains on the Falkland Islands and occasionally can be found on any of the major battle fields. All mine fields have been identified, are well mapped and fenced-off. The fences are hung with red warning triangles stating ‘mines’. It is an offence, punishable by imprisonment or large fine, to enter these areas, remove, damage or obscure the signs, or cut or remove any part of the fence.
If you come across anything you think may be ordinance, please follow the below guidance from the Royal Falkland Islands Police:
Do NOT touch the item
Clearly mark the area where the item is
If safe to do so take a picture of the item but do not approach
Call 999 from a safe distance and wait for the police to arrive.
Detailed maps of minefield locations are available locally.
Falkland Islands Government London office
The Falkland Islands Government maintains an office in London that can provide further information for visitors:
Falkland Islands Government Office
Falkland House
14 Broadway
Westminster
LONDON
SW1H OBH
Telephone: 020 7222 2542
Fax: 020 7222 2375
