Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for French Polynesia on the TravelHealthPro website.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in French Polynesia.
Returning to the UK
Travelling from and returning to the UK
If you plan to pass through another country to return to the UK, check the travel advice for the country you’re transiting. If you will pass through a red list country, book your hotel quarantine package before travelling to the UK.
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in French Polynesia
The French government has outlined measures to stem the spread of coronavirus. Local measures are also in place in French Polynesia . For further information on local restrictions in French Polynesia, please see the French government’s website and the French High Commission’s website.
Healthcare in French Polynesia
Local public health information is available from the Direction de la Santé of French Polynesia.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in French Polynesia.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in French Polynesia
Wherever possible British nationals should aim to be vaccinated in the country where they live. We will update this page when the Government of French Polynesia announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The French Polynesian national vaccination programme started in January 2021 and is using the Pfizer-BioNTech and Janssen vaccines. British nationals resident in French Polynesia are eligible for vaccination. Further information on the vaccination programme is available on the Government of French Polynesia’s website. (French language only)
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in French Polynesia, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
