This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in French Polynesia set and enforce entry rules. For further information contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to. You should also consider checking with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Entry rules in response to coronavirus (COVID-19)
Travel from the UK
All those travelling to French Polynesia from the UK need to have an essential reason for doing so and present a negative C19 test (PCR or antigen) taken within 24 hours prior to departure. Full details are on the French Polynesian Government’s website.
All travellers will need to register on the French Polynesian Electronic Travel Information System (ETIS) and provide the receipt at check-in. If you are fully vaccinated, you will validate your vaccination status through this portal. The process is mandatory and passengers need to register at least 6 days before departure. Minors travelling with their parents can be included on their ETIS form.
Demonstrating your vaccination status from the UK is not yet formalised for entry into French Polynesia, so you should follow alternative advice for entry on the ETIS system as above. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
Those who are not fully vaccinated must undergo 10 days of self-isolation upon arrival in French Polynesia and take COVID-19 tests on the first, fifth, and ninth days.
Minors accompanying a vaccinated adult do not need an essential reason to travel, nor do they need to self-isolate, but must take COVID-19 tests on the first, fifth, and ninth days of their stay in French Polynesia.
Everyone over 6 must undergo an antigenic test upon arrival.
Further details are available on the website of the French High Commission (in French).
If travelling from France, travellers may also need to produce an international travel certificate to be completed in order to travel to French Polynesia. Further information is available on the French government website.
If travelling via France, you should also check our Travel Advice for France.
These entry requirements are subject to change. For further information on the entry restrictions in place for French Overseas Territories, please see the French government’s website before travelling.
Regular entry requirements
Visas
French Polynesia is an Overseas Collective (collectivité d’outre-mer) of France.
If you hold a British Citizen passport, you don’t need a visa to enter French Polynesia for stays of up to three months. Other British passport holders, and those who plan to stay longer than three months, should check the current entry requirements on the website of the French Ministry of Foreign Affairs and, if necessary, confirm with the nearest French Diplomatic mission.
Passport validity
Travellers should ensure that their passport has at least 3 months of validity after the date you intend to leave French Polynesia.
UK residents in French Polynesia
If you live in French Polynesia, you should carry your residence document, as well as your valid passport when you travel. If you have applied but not yet received your document, carry your certificate of application. You will have received this as an email. If you have not yet applied for a residence document, you should carry evidence that you are resident in French Polynesia. This could include a tenancy agreement or a utility bill in your name, dating from 2020. For more information, including on how to apply for a residence document, see the French government’s website.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK emergency travel documents (ETDs) are accepted for entry, airside transit and exit from French Polynesia.
Working in French Polynesia
British nationals who wish to work in French Polynesia should make enquiries, prior to departure, at the nearest French Consulate.
