At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Coronavirus
There is an ongoing outbreak of coronavirus (COVID-19) in China, some other countries in the region and elsewhere. The authorities have introduced a number of precautionary measures.
Since 28 January 2020 all passengers travelling from Asia transiting via Japan and New Zealand to French Polynesia need to present a medical certificate issued at least 15 days before arrival in French Polynesia.
Since 5 February 2020 all passengers of any nationality having travelled to any of the following countries since 1 January 2020 (regardless of their departure country) need to present a medical certificate, issued at least 5 days before arrival in French Polynesia, certifying their current state of health: China, Cambodia, Hong Kong, India, Japan, Macao, Malaysia, Nepal, Singapore, South Korea, Sri Lanka, Taiwan, Thailand, Vietnam, Philippines.
In the absence of a certificate, the airline will be asked to refuse boarding to the passenger. During the flight all passengers will be handed a Sanitary Control questionnaire by the airline to be handed in by the passenger on arrival to the medical team at the airport. All passengers arriving in French Polynesia on an international flight will undergo temperature control via a thermal camera.
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
Other health risks
Cases of Chikungunya virus have been confirmed in French Polynesia. You should take appropriate precautions to avoid being bitten by mosquitoes.
Diving is a popular pastime in the Territory but you should be aware that the only decompression facility is located in Papeete and that in the event of an accident it might take some time to reach from some of the popular diving sites located on other islands.
Local medical care
The European Health Insurance Card (EHIC) does not provide any health cover in French Polynesia. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation.
As French Polynesia is not one of the Overseas Departments which are seen as part of mainland France, for the purposes of the EU regulations governing access to healthcare, there is no cover for the cost of healthcare for any UK resident who goes to French Polynesia for a visit or to live.
Information can be obtained direct from the English language service of the Caisse Primaire d’Assurance Maladie (French social security service) on 00 33 8 20 90 42 12 or CLEISS (the Helpdesk in France for international mobility and social security) on 00 33 1 45 26 33 4.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 15 (or 40485906 from a landline) and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
