

Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.    
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in French Polynesia
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in French Polynesia, attacks cannot be ruled out.
Industrial action and demonstrations
From 6 December 2024, industrial action by airport firefighters and civil servants may disrupt domestic flights, with most flights delayed or cancelled. Check your operator’s advice before travelling, including where you’re taking connecting flights.
Demonstrations linked to industrial action may take place in Papeete and other cities. Whilst most demonstrations are peaceful, if you’re near areas where they are taking place, you should remain vigilant and follow the advice of the police and local authorities.
Crime
Protecting yourself and your belongings
Avoid isolated areas, including beaches, after dark.  
Do not carry large amounts of cash or wear expensive-looking jewellery or watches on the street. Put valuables and travel documents in a safety deposit box or hotel safe.  
Outdoor activities and adventure tourism
Swimming safety
See water safety on holiday from the Royal Life Saving Society.
Scuba diving
Diving schools may have limited resources and do not always observe safety and maintenance standards. Always:
ask to see a dive operator’s credentials
check the conditions on your insurance policy – some policies require dive instructors to have certain qualifications
make sure safety equipment looks to be in good condition
make sure oxygen is available on the boat
ask about safety precautions, including the ability to transfer divers to the only hyperbaric chamber in French Polynesia, which is in Papeete
If you have not had any previous diving experience, check what to do if something goes wrong, including how to call for help while at sea.
Transport risks
Road travel
If you are planning to drive in French Polynesia, see information on driving abroad.
You’ll need to carry both the 1968 version of the international driving permit (IDP) and your UK driving licence when driving. You cannot buy an IDP outside the UK, so get one before you travel.
Hire car companies often have stricter requirements for their customers, such as a year of driving experience, a higher minimum age and holding an IDP.
Extreme weather and natural disasters
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards.
Cyclones
Tropical storms including cyclones can happen from November to April. Monitor local news and check World Meteorological Organization weather reports for French Polynesia.
Earthquakes
Earthquakes are a risk in French Polynesia. The US Federal Emergency Management Agency website has advice about what to do before, during and after an earthquake.
