The Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) advises against all but essential travel to:
the whole of French Polynesia based on the current assessment of COVID-19 risks.
If you’re returning to the UK from French Polynesia, you will need to self-isolate on your return (unless you’re exempt). Check the latest guidance for England, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales.
Travel to French Polynesia is subject to entry restrictions
Travellers have to produce a negative result of a PCR test carried out less than 72 hours before departure for French Polynesia. Travellers must register on the French Polynesian platform “Electronic travel information system” - “ETIS” and produce a registration receipt
Travellers may need to produce a self-certified document affirming that they have no COVID symptoms and that to their knowledge they have not been in contact with any person confirmed positive within the last 14 days
These entry requirements are subject to change. For further information on the entry restrictions in place for French Overseas Territories, please see the French government’s website before travelling
See Entry requirements for more information before you plan to travel.
Returning to the UK
French Polynesia is on the amber list for entering England. Check what you must do to enter England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
If you’re planning travel to French Polynesia, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCDO’s guidance on foreign travel insurance.
For information about COVID-19 vaccines, see the Coronavirus page.
French Polynesia is a French Overseas Territory. There’s no British Embassy in French Polynesia. Consular support is limited however, the British High Commission Wellington in New Zealand can provide some consular support to British nationals.
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in French Polynesia, attacks cannot be ruled out. See Terrorism
Crime levels are low.
Many hundreds of British tourists visit French Polynesia each year. Most visits are trouble-free.
Tropical storms can occur between the months of November and April. See Natural disasters
