Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Angola on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
There are a number of indirect commercial flights to Angola from the UK operated by TAP Air Portugal, Lufthansa, and Air France.
Passengers connecting via Frankfurt are required to show proof of a negative COVID-19 test completed no more than 48 hours before arrival in Germany. For more information, visit Travel Advice for Germany.
Angola has banned entry to arrivals from Brazil and India, with exceptions for Angolan nationals and those with residence permits who must go into mandatory quarantine on arrival at a government facility.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Angola.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements. You should check that the test result can be provided in the correct format and language.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Angola
Travel around the country is permitted, but you should undertake a rapid COVID-19 test. Air passengers can undertake a rapid COVID-19 test at domestic airports. Test documentation will be checked at all provincial borders. Test results are deemed to be valid for 7 days. Passengers travelling for longer than 7 days will need to undertake further tests as necessary, to continue to move around the country.
The Angolan government has declared a “situation of public calamity” which imposes a number of restrictions and public health measures to limit the spread of the virus:
you are encouraged to stay at home
you should work remotely and practise social distancing
face masks are compulsory in all areas outside of your home or hotel room, including in private motor vehicles. Immediate on-the-spot fines will be issued for non-compliance. Restrictions are in place on travel into and out of Luanda province and the neighbouring province of Kwanza Norte. If you travel out of Luanda, you must show evidence of a rapid COVID-19 test or you will be issued with a fine.
higher fines will be imposed for breaching a number of restrictions
Accommodation
Hotels and private rentals continue to operate with some restrictions and coronavirus precautionary measures in place. You should contact your accommodation provider before booking to confirm what restrictions are in place.
Public places and services
The majority of shops, banks, restaurants and markets continue to operate, with some restrictions (e.g. reduced opening hours). COVID-19 precautionary measures are in place including capacity limits for public transport and funerals. All beaches, cinemas, gyms and leisure centres are closed.
Healthcare in Angola
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
If you think you have COVID-19 symptoms, you should contact your nearest clinic or medical centre or dial 111 to contact the public health authorities.
COVID-19 Vaccines if you live in Angola
We will update this page when the Government of Angola announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications(https://www.gov.uk/foreign-travel-advice/angola/email-signup) when this page is updated.
The Angolan national vaccination programme started in March 2021 and is using the AstraZeneca, Pfizer, Sinopharm and Sputnik vaccines. The Government of Angola has stated that British nationals resident in Angola are eligible for vaccination if they choose to join the programme. Further information on the vaccination programme is available here.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad. If you’re a British national living in Angola, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
Further guidance from the Angolan government on coronavirus (only available in Portuguese) can be found on the Angolan government’s COVID-19 page.
