This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Angola set and enforce entry rules. For further information contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to. You should also consider checking with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Entry rules in response to coronavirus (COVID-19)
Entry to Angola
There are a number of indirect commercial flights between the UK and Angola operated by TAP Air Portugal, Lufthansa, Air France, Brussels Airlines, Emirates, Turkish Airlines and Ethiopian Airlines. Because of ongoing conflict in Ethiopia, you should check our Ethiopia Travel Advice if you plan on transiting through Ethiopia.
Angola has banned entry to arrivals from Brazil, South Africa, Mozambique, Namibia, Botswana, Eswatini, Zimbabwe and India, with exceptions for Angolan nationals and those with residence permits who must go into 14 days mandatory quarantine on arrival.
Advance passenger information requirement
All passengers are required to show evidence of a negative COVID-19 PCR test completed 72 hours before travel to Angola.
All passengers are required to complete an Advance Passenger Information form (FRV form) 72 hours before travel to Angola. Several travel documents must be uploaded onto the form in PDF format to be accepted before entry to Angola.
Angola has banned entry to arrivals from Brazil and India, with exceptions for Angolan nationals and those with residence permits who must go into mandatory quarantine on arrival at a government facility.
Testing prior to arrival and departure
In addition to the requirement to show evidence of a negative COVID-19 test completed 72 hours before arrival in Angola, all arriving passengers are required to undergo a rapid COVID-19 test immediately on disembarkation from the plane. The cost of this is included in the airline ticket so there is no additional cost to pay at the airport. The test is undertaken in a hangar at the airport, but can take time. It usually takes approximately 20-40 minutes, depending on the number of passengers being processed, but it is advisable to carry water and a refreshment in case there is a long wait.
Those receiving a negative result will be allowed entry and can continue through immigration.
You will need to undertake compulsory self-quarantine for 7 days before undergoing a further COVID-19 test (but see quarantine requirements below). Those receiving a positive COVID-19 result will go immediately into mandatory quarantine at a government facility for observation and further testing.
All departing passengers are required to show evidence of negative COVID-19 test completed 72 hours before departure from Angola. Angolan nationals (including dual citizens) are required to show proof of vaccination.
Quarantine requirements
On 31 August, the Angolan government announced that passengers who can show proof of a full COVID-19 vaccination (i.e. two doses) and who test negative on disembarkation will be exempt from quarantine on arrival.
All other passengers without proof of a full COVID-19 vaccination (i.e. two doses) will need to undertake compulsory self-quarantine for at least 7 days once tested for COVID-19 on arrival. Returning residents who test negative on disembarkation can quarantine in their own homes. Non-resident essential workers have to quarantine in a government or government-approved facility. You must spend at least 7 days in quarantine before being tested. On arrival, health officials at the airport will issue a handout with contacts to your local health centre where you can get tested. On receipt of a negative PCR test, a Titulo De Alta (ALTA) will be issued by the health centre to authorise the end of quarantine.
Those testing positive on arrival can isolate at home if asymptomatic, but those showing symptoms may be required to go into mandatory quarantine at a government facility.
Regular entry requirements
Visas
You must apply for a valid visa and/or work permit before travelling to Angola, otherwise you may be detained at the airport and then deported. The deportation process can take a long time. You should check all entry requirements with the Angolan Consulate in London well in advance of travel.
If you’re applying for a tourist visa, you can submit documentation online in advance of travel and be granted a pre-approval, normally within 72 hours. This allows you to receive your physical visa on entry into Angola, subject to a fee equivalent to USD $120, paid in cash (preferable) or by Visa or MasterCard to the immigration officer on arrival. Further information can be found on the online application portal.
You may be fined 15,000 Kwanzas (Angolan currency) per day if you overstay your visa. You may not be allowed to leave the country until your fine has been paid. Legal action may be taken against you if you don’t pay your fine. This may include being detained, deported or not being allowed to re-enter Angola.
Fines are in place for a wide range of visa offences including (but not limited to) working, studying or residing without the correct visa, changing employment without notifying the authorities, employing staff with incorrect visas, failing to renew residence cards, or changing address without notifying the authorities.
Passport validity
Your passport should be valid for a minimum period of 6 months from the date of entry into Angola.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETD) are not valid for entry or transit into Angola. However, ETD are accepted to exit Angola.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
