At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Coronavirus
The Angolan authorities have introduced a number of precautionary measures in response to the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic.
All international flights to and from Angola will be suspended from 20 March until further notice.
The Government of Angola has also announced that nobody (apart from returning Angolan nationals or expatriates residing permanently in Angola) will be allowed into Angola after having visited China, South Korea, Iran, France, Spain, Portugal or Italy since December. All returning residents who have been to China, South Korea, Iran, France, Spain, Portugal or Italy will be placed in obligatory quarantine for 14 days upon arrival.
Many visitors from the UK travel to Angola via South Africa. South Africa has put in place travel restrictions on individuals from countries affected by coronavirus, including the United Kingdom. Follow our travel advice for South Africa for information on South African entry requirements, and consult your nearest South African High Commission.
Keep up to date with information from your tour operator, transport or accommodation provider on the impact on any existing travel plans.
If you need further information about entry requirements, contact the local immigration authorities or the nearest Angolan Embassy. You should also check with your airline or travel company for the latest information.
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
Other health risks
UK health authorities have classified Angola as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For more information and advice, visit the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
Local medical care
There are several competent private clinics run by expatriate organisations in Luanda. Fees are high and are charged in advance. Outside Luanda health care is very limited. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 112 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
