Money
Credit cards are only accepted in a very limited number of hotels and restaurants, although this is increasing. Always ask whether your card will be accepted before using it. There have been reports of credit cards being cloned for fraudulent purposes so you should exercise caution when using your card.
The number of ATM’s is growing in Luanda and other cities although they’re frequently empty. Check with your card issuer to see if your card will be accepted.
Travellers’ cheques aren’t accepted. Funds may be sent from the UK to Angola (but not in the other direction) by Western Union which has a number of agencies in Luanda and elsewhere and whose details are listed on the company’s website.
Bring enough cash for your needs or make sure your sponsoring company or agency has made suitable arrangements. US dollars are widely used. Old series dollar bills (with small heads) aren’t accepted, nor are damaged or torn dollar bills.
There are limits on the amount of cash that can be imported and exported. The limit is currently the equivalent of 15,000 US dollars. Imports over this limit should be declared and the relevant forms completed on arrival. If you wish to re-export currency over the 15,000 US dollar limit you’ll need to show your original declaration form to the customs authority at the airport.
If you acquire currency over 15,000 US dollars while in Angola, you’ll need to get prior authorisation from the National Bank to export the currency.
Undeclared imports or exports of amounts over the equivalent of 15,000 US dollars are liable to seizure. The limits are subject to change. Check current limits with the Angolan Embassy or the National Bank.
New regulations about the import and export of foreign currency and Kwanzas (Angolan currency) came into effect in 2016:
if you’re an adult resident you can import/export the equivalent of 10,000 US dollars in foreign currency, and residents under 18 have a limit of 3,500 US dollars
if you’re an adult non-resident you can import/export the equivalent of 5,000 US dollars, and non-residents under 18 have a limit of 1,500 US dollars
residents and non-residents can take out of Angola up to 50,000 Kwanzas in addition to the US Dollars or foreign currency mentioned above
you can expect to be searched at the airport to make sure you’re not leaving the country carrying more than the allowed amounts
if you acquire currency over the allowed amounts while in Angola, you’ll need to get prior authorisation from the National Bank of Angola to export it
the destruction of Kwanza notes is illegal
