!
Warning
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to parts of Angola.

This section has safety advice for regions of Angola. It only covers regions where the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) has specific advice.  
You should also read FCDO’s overall travel advice and safety and security advice.  
Cabinda Province, except Cabinda city 
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to Cabinda Province, except to Cabinda city.  
There are regular violent incidents including rape, murder and kidnappings in Cabinda Province. These have involved both foreigners and Angolans.  
Separatist groups in the northern exclave of Cabinda (a province not joined to the rest of Angola) have been known to carry out attacks involving both foreigners and Angolans. Groups claiming responsibility for these attacks have said they’ll continue attacks against foreigners. 
Border areas in Lunda Norte Province 
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to within 1km of the border with the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) in Lunda Norte province, except for official border crossings and their access roads.  
FCDO also advises against all travel to the provinces of Kasaï and Kasaï Central, across the border in the Central Democratic Republic of Congo. 
The rest of Lunda Norte and Lunda Sul 
FCDO advises against travelling to Lunda Norte and Lunda Sol unless absolutely necessary. Get security advice and travel with the support of a security company or sponsoring organisation.  
The Angolan authorities are sensitive to the presence of foreigners in diamond-producing areas, which includes Lunda Norte and Lunda Sul. They may impose restrictions on your movement in these provinces. If you do not comply, they may arrest you and detain you. 
The diamond mines increase the threat of crime and banditry on roads leading to and from these areas. Bandits may carry out armed hold-ups. 
Areas outside Luanda and the provincial capitals 
If you travel outside Luanda and the provincial capitals, go with people or organisations that know the area, as conditions can be difficult. There is widespread poverty, limited infrastructure, and social exclusion and disease. There are mines and unexploded weapons in many parts of the country. 
Transport and accommodation are extremely limited outside Luanda. Officials are likely to ask for your passport and visa or entry stamp, so take the originals with you.
