Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

Although all scheduled international flights to and from Angola were suspended on 20 March, limited charter flight options to connect to the UK continue to become available on an ad-hoc basis.
If you live in the UK and are currently visiting Angola you’re strongly advised to return now by commercial means. Don’t run the risk of getting stranded.
UK Government special charter flights will only operate for priority countries where commercial flights are not possible. You should not assume that these flights will become available in countries where commercial flights are operating.
Commercial flights
The following commercial charter flights are operating from Luanda:
28 April: Air France/KLM flight to Paris
30 April: TAP Air Portugal flight to Lisbon
Seats on these flights are available for British nationals. If you wish to travel, email BritishEmbassy.LuandaGeral@fco.gov.uk as soon as possible.
You will be responsible for organising your onward travel to the UK:
From Paris: British Airways and Air France are operating regular connecting flights to London. Eurostar services are also running.
From Lisbon: British Airways are operating regular connecting flights from Lisbon to London
Check travel advice for any country that you will transit on the way back to the UK.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Travelling to the airport
The Government of Angola has permitted the travel of foreign nationals within Angola when travelling to the airport to return to their home country. If you are intending to travel back to Luanda from the interior by road, please contact the Embassy in advance on BritishEmbassy.LuandaGeral@fco.gov.uk.
Arrival in the UK
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Visas
If you are in Angola and your visa has reached its expiry date, it will remain valid until further notice.
Help and support
If you wish to return to the UK from Angola, you should contact the British Embassy on BritishEmbassy.LuandaGeral@fco.gov.uk and we will update you directly with details of any possible future flight options.
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact the British Embassy via webform or by phone on +244 222 334 583 or +244 222 372 917.
The Embassy cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone. This page will be updated when departure options become available. To get the latest information, sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British Embassy on Twitter and Facebook.
Further information
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
