This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Angola as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Angola to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Angola
Angola’s State of Emergency ended on 25 May. However, from 26 May, a ‘situation of public calamity’ was declared, which retains many restrictions and public health measures to limit the spread of the virus:
Citizens are encouraged to stay at home and apply social distancing practices.
Face masks are obligatory in shops, public buildings, enclosed spaces and on public transport.
Angola’s external borders remain closed and restrictions are in place on travel into and out of the Luanda capital region.
A phased resumption of businesses, shops, transport, schools, cultural and leisure activities, is foreseen over the coming weeks.
All measures are subject to the absence of a sudden rise in Covid cases, so you should continue to comply with measures put in place by the local authorities.
Visas
If you are in Angola and your visa has reached its expiry date, it will remain valid until 30 Aug 2020.
Health
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Angola.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Angola, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
