The FCDO advises against all but essential travel to:
the province of Cabinda (but not including Cabinda city)
within 1km of the border with the Democratic Republic of Congo in Lunda Norte province, except at official border crossings and their access roads.
the remainder of Angola based on the current assessment of COVID-19 risks
From 4am on Saturday 9 January, visitors arriving into the UK who have been in or transited through Angola in the previous 10 days will not be permitted entry. British and Irish nationals, and third country nationals with residence rights in the UK arriving in England from Angola will be required to quarantine in a hotel. Different requirements apply for arrivals into Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland.
The FCDO is not advising those already travelling in Angola to leave at this time. Travellers should follow the advice of the local authorities on how best to protect themselves and others, including any measures that they bring in to control the virus. You should contact your tour operator or airline if you have any questions about your return journey.
From 1 January onwards, those with residence rights includes: holders of Indefinite Leave to Remain; holders of existing leave to enter or remain (i.e those with biometric Residence permits) or an entry clearance/visa that grants such leave e.g. students, workers, etc (excluding visit visas); holders of EU Settlement Scheme (“EUSS”) leave; those who have rights of entry under the Withdrawal Agreements (including returning residents with a right of residence under the EEA Regulations and EEA frontier workers); family members of EEA nationals with rights under the Withdrawal Agreement.
Travel to Angola is subject to entry restrictions
Entry to Angola is prohibited except for Angolan nationals, resident foreign nationals and visitors travelling for essential reasons
All passengers are required to show evidence of a negative Coronavirus (COVID-19) test completed 72 hours before travel to Angola. All passengers are required to complete an Advance Passenger Information form (FRV form) 72 hours before travel to Angola. Several travel documents must be uploaded in PDF format to be accepted
All passengers are required to take a rapid COVID-19 test immediately on disembarking the plane. This test is currently free of charge. Those receiving a negative result will be allowed entry but will need to undertake compulsory self-quarantine for 10 days before undergoing a further COVID-19 test
On arrival, passengers with short-term and visitor visas will have their passports retained by the Angolan authorities at the Immigration desk. Passports can be recovered at the end of the 10 day quarantine period, on presentation of a negative COVID-19 test certificate (test to be taken on day 11) at the SME Department in the Departures lounge. Those receiving a positive COVID-19 result on arrival will go immediately into mandatory quarantine at a government facility
See Entry requirements for more information before you plan to travel.
Preparing for your return journey to the UK
If you’re returning to the UK from overseas, you will need to:
provide your journey and contact details before you travel
check if you need to self-isolate on your return
If your return journey to the UK transits another country, you should check whether it is subject to a travel ban or any other additional requirements. If so, contact your travel provider.
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
If you’re planning travel to Angola, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCDO’s guidance on foreign travel insurance.
For information about COVID-19 vaccines, see the Coronavirus page.
You should avoid political gatherings and demonstrations, be vigilant and respect advice and instruction given by local security authorities.
You must get a valid visa and/or work permit before you travel to Angola. The process can take a long time and you should apply several weeks before your intended travel date. See Entry requirements
UK health authorities have classified Angola as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For more information and advice, visit the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
There is a high level of crime in Luanda. Be particularly careful when withdrawing money from banks and ATMs. Don’t walk around the city after dark. See Crime
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Angola, attacks can’t be ruled out. See Terrorism
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission. Consular support is limited in parts of Angola where FCDO advise against all but essential travel.
The Overseas Business Risk service offers information and advice for British companies operating overseas on how to manage political, economic, and business security-related risks.
