

This information is for people travelling on a full ‘British citizen’ passport from the UK. It is based on the UK government’s understanding of the current rules for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in the Czechia set and enforce entry rules. If you’re not sure how these requirements apply to you, contact the Czechia Embassy in the UK.
Passport validity requirements
Czechia follows Schengen area rules. Your passport must:
have a ‘date of issue’ less than 10 years before the date you arrive – if you renewed your passport before 1 October 2018, it may have a date of issue that is more than 10 years ago
have an ‘expiry date’ at least 3 months after the day you plan to leave the Schengen area (the expiry date does not need to be within 10 years of the date of issue)
Check with your travel provider that your passport and other travel documents meet requirements. Renew your passport if you need to.
You will be denied entry if you do not have a valid travel document or try to use a passport that has been reported lost or stolen.
Visa requirements
You can travel without a visa to the Schengen area, which includes Czechia, for up to 90 days in any 180-day period. This applies if you travel:
as a tourist
to visit family or friends
to attend business meetings, cultural or sports events
for short-term studies or training
The requirements for working in Czechia are different.
If you’re travelling to other Schengen countries as well, make sure your whole visit is within the 90-day limit. Visits to Schengen countries in the 180 days before you travel count towards your 90 days. If you overstay the 90-day visa-free limit, you may be banned from entering Schengen countries for up to 3 years.
Make sure you get your passport stamped on entry and exit.
If you’re a visitor, border guards will look at your entry and exit stamps to check you have not overstayed the 90-day visa-free limit for the Schengen area. 
If your passport is missing a stamp, show evidence of when and where you entered or left the Schengen area (for example, boarding passes or tickets) and ask the border guards to add the date and location in your passport. 
At Czechia border control, you may also need to:
show a return or onward ticket
prove that you have enough money for your stay – the amount varies depending on your accommodation
Staying longer than 90 days in a 180-day period
To stay longer, you must meet the Czechia government’s entry requirements. Check which type of visa or permit you need with the Czechia Embassy in the UK.
If you stay in Czechia with a residence permit or long-stay visa, this does not count towards your 90-day visa-free limit.
Read about passport stamping if you live in Czechia.
New Schengen entry requirements
The EU’s Entry/Exit System (EES) is expected to start in October 2025. It is not currently in operation. The European Union will inform about the specific start date of the EES before its launch.
Read more information on the EU Entry/Exit System.
Border controls at Germany’s land borders  
There are temporary border controls in place to travel into Germany. Check the entry requirements for Germany.
Vaccine requirements
For details about medical entry requirements and recommended vaccinations, see TravelHealthPro’s Czechia guide. 
Registering with the police
If you do not have a Czechia residence permit, you must register your address with the nearest foreign police department (in Czech) within 3 days of arriving. You can also register through your hotel or accommodation service. If you do not register, you could get a fine of up to 3,000 Czech koruna.
Customs rules
There are strict rules about goods that can be brought into and taken out of Czechia. You must declare anything that may be prohibited or subject to tax or duty.
Taking food into Czechia
You cannot take meat, milk or products containing them into EU countries. There are some exceptions such as powdered baby milk, baby food and special foods or pet feed required for medical reasons.
Taking money into or out of Czechia
Declare cash or travellers cheques if the value is 10,000 euros or more. You will get a certified declaration to show you brought it in with you. If you do not, your money could be seized when you leave. For more information, see import and export of financial funds.
