

Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.     
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Czechia
Terrorist attacks in Czechia cannot be ruled out.
You should be aware of the global risk of indiscriminate terrorist attacks which could be in public places, including in places frequented by expatriates and foreign travellers.      
Political situation
Public protests may happen at short notice. These have been peaceful but take care in crowded places and follow the instructions of local authorities.
Crime
Protecting yourself and your belongings
Petty theft is a problem, especially in major tourist areas in Prague. There is a risk of pickpocketing:
on busy metro and bus routes from Prague airport to the city centre
on trams to popular tourist sites like Prague Castle
in busy tourist areas
Take care of yourself and your belongings in the same way as you would do in the UK. Avoid leaving your belongings unattended.
Report thefts in person to the Czech police within 24 hours, and get a police report crime number for insurance purposes. Prague police station (Jungmannovo namesti 9, Prague 1, nearest metro stop is Mustek) is open 24 hours and has English translators. You can also get a police report from the police station at the airport. See Prague police station contact details (in Czech).
Every lamppost in Prague has a 6-digit number posted at eye level. These codes will help you tell the police where you are if you cannot give them an exact address.
Drink spiking
There is a risk of drink spiking in bars and clubs. Be careful not to take drinks from strangers or leave your drinks unattended.
Scams
Beware of criminals pretending to be plainclothes policemen who ask to see your foreign currency and passport. Czechia police officers do not have the right to do this. Do not show them your money. Instead, offer to go with them to the nearest police station. You can also call 158 or 112 to check their identity.   
Travelling in groups   
If you’re travelling in a group, keep a note of your hotel phone number and address in case you are separated. Leave contact details with a friend or relative in the UK.
Prague safety issues
Prague city police advise visitors to:
always change money at a currency exchange or bank rather than on the street as this money is often counterfeit
take care when using cash machines
avoid contact with sex workers
be aware of consumption charges in night clubs as they are often high
be careful with consumption cards, which carry high financial penalties if you lose them before you pay your bill
Laws and cultural differences
Personal ID
It is a legal requirement to carry ID. Always carry your passport. The police may fine or arrest you if you do not. They will normally accept a scan of your passport if you have not committed a crime.
Drunken and offensive behaviour
Stag groups are not allowed to enter some city centre bars and restaurants. You may be arrested or fined for drunken or offensive behaviour. Police may take you to ‘sober-up’ facilities for a temporary period, and you will have to pay for your stay.
Illegal drugs
The possession, sale and distribution of drugs, including cannabis, is illegal, and the drugs are often dangerous counterfeits. Some shops, particularly in Prague, advertise ‘cannabis products’, which contain trace amounts of THC permissible under Czech law.
You should expect severe penalties such as a long jail sentence and heavy fines for possessing, using or smuggling illegal drugs, including when transiting through the airport. Convictions carry sentences of up to 18 years.
Airports in Czechia have excellent technology and security for detecting illegal items. This is also used to scan the baggage of transiting passengers.
LGBT+ travellers
Same-sex relationships and civil partnerships are legal in Czechia, but same-sex marriages are not recognised in Czech law. Registered same-sex partnerships are awaiting presidential approval. Same-sex couples showing affection in public could receive unwanted attention. Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers. 
Surrogacy
It is illegal to earn money from a surrogacy arrangement.
The police may charge you if you are:
a surrogate mother
a British national who plans to take a child born through surrogacy
an agent organising the handover
FCDO advises against making surrogacy arrangements in Czechia or moving surrogacy arrangements from other countries.
You should get specialist legal advice in the UK and Czechia. See surrogacy arrangements in foreign countries.
Transport risks
Road travel
If you are planning to drive in Czechia, see information on driving abroad and check the rules of the road in the RAC’s Czechia guide. The guide lists driving regulations and other legal requirements you need to be aware of.
You can use a UK photocard driving licence to drive in Czechia. If you still have a paper driving licence, you may need to update it to a photocard licence or get the correct version of the international driving permit (IDP) as well.
Hire car companies often have stricter requirements for their customers, such as a year of driving experience, a higher minimum age and holding an IDP.
Check if you need a UK sticker to drive your car outside the UK.
Drink-driving is a serious offence in Czechia. If you are tested and found to have any alcohol or drugs in your system, you may face a fine of up to 50,000 Czech koruna, confiscation of your licence and possible imprisonment. The Czech police can ask any driver to take a breathalyser test on the spot.
Taxis
It’s safer to use a major taxi company than to pick one up in the street. Some taxis charge high prices. Always check the rates on the side of the taxi before getting in.
Beware of drivers pretending to be taxi services but offering rides in unmarked cars and overcharging for journeys. See information on using Uber at Prague airport, including how to book through the app, at a self-service kiosk or at service counters. Booking through a kiosk is usually slightly more expensive.
Buses and trams
See Prague public transport information and journey planner in English.
Be careful near tram tracks and make sure you look both ways as trams cannot stop quickly. Trams have the right of way on zebra crossings.
You may get a fine if you do not cross roads and tram tracks at pedestrian crossings. You can also get a fine if you cross when the pedestrian crossing light is not green.
You must validate your ticket in a ticket machine before starting a journey on public transport. You do not need to validate tickets bought from self-service terminals on trams and buses. Officials patrol public transport and will issue an on-the-spot fine of 1,000 Czech koruna (around £35) if you do not hold a validated ticket. If fined, you should get a receipt. If you cannot pay immediately, the police can get involved and the fine could increase to 1,500 koruna.
The 30 and 90-minute journey adult tickets for bus, tram and metro are not valid on the Petřín Hill funicular railway in Prague. You need a specific 60-koruna ticket from the vending machines at funicular railway stops, or a 24-hour ticket (or longer).
Extreme weather and natural disasters   
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards. 
You can access local forecasts and weather warnings for Czechia.  Follow the instructions of local authorities.
