Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Pakistan on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
Since 5 May, Pakistan has restricted the number of international flights to/from Pakistan.
On 20 March, the Pakistan government announced that entry restrictions for inbound travellers from the UK will be lifted from 0001 hours on 23 March. Travellers are still required to present evidence of a negative COVID-19 test taken up to 72 hours before the start of travel.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Pakistan.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements. You should contact local authorities for information on testing facilities and check with your airline.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Pakistan
Public transport has restarted across Pakistan with some restrictions.
Domestic flight operations have restarted at all airports in Pakistan.
Rail and bus travel has also restarted, including inter-city and inter-province travel. However, there are mandatory standard operating procedures for public transport including social distancing and restrictions on numbers of passengers. You must wear a face covering when in public across Pakistan including on public transport, punishable by fine.
Authorities can impose local restrictions on travel to prevent the spread of coronavirus. You should follow the federal and relevant provincial guidance, and monitor local media for updates.
Travel to the airport
You’re strongly advised not to travel to the airport if you’re displaying any COVID-19 symptoms, including a high temperature. When you enter the airport, you may be thermal scanned by the Pakistani authorities. If you have a high temperature or other COVID-19 symptoms, you will not be permitted to fly and may be asked to self-isolate for 14 days before you can travel.
Public places and services
Pakistani authorities have imposed restrictions on some public activities in Islamabad Capital Territory and parts of Punjab province due to rising cases of COVID-19 including a ban on indoor and outdoor dining, restrictions on commercial activities, educational institutes and gatherings. Restrictions may be lifted or re-imposed based on the levels of COVID-19 in the country.
There are mandatory standard operating procedures which must be followed in public spaces, including the use of face masks, temperature screening and social distancing. Across Pakistan, it is now mandatory to wear a face mask in public and not wearing one is punishable by a fine.
There are additional varying measures in force in each province including compulsory self-isolation for people who have COVID-19 symptoms, or people who have come into contact with others with COVID-19 symptoms. In some cases, authorities are locking down specific areas. Some provinces have introduced powers to fine or arrest anyone breaking the rules.
You should follow the federal and relevant provincial guidance, and monitor local media for updates. Plan any movements accordingly.
At the airport
You must wear a face mask at the airport. You will need to bring your own mask with you. Airlines and airport authorities will not provide masks.
The Pakistan Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) require the plane to be disinfected prior to departing for Pakistan. Luggage will also be disinfected before it is loaded onto the plane. Cabin Crew will be required to wear personal protective equipment (PPE).
Healthcare in Pakistan
There is a risk that the healthcare system will come under significant strain as the number of COVID-19 cases increases. Access to routine and emergency healthcare may be limited.
The Pakistani authorities have announced a helpline (on phone number 1166) for people who have COVID-19 symptoms like fever, cough and difficulty breathing. If you’re worried about the virus, or suspect you may have contracted it, call the helpline and follow the guidance given by the authorities. You can also check the official government of Pakistan website on COVID-19.
If you’re running out of medication or have medical needs, you should speak to your travel insurance company for advice and seek local medical assistance, including from pharmacies. Pharmacies remain open in Pakistan and many medicines can be purchased over the counter. If your usual medication is not available, speak to your travel insurer, ask a local doctor or request advice from your UK doctor.
Pharmacies have remained open during COVID-19 lockdowns as they are exempted from lockdown closure. Major hospitals have pharmacies which operate 24 hours a day and there have been no restrictions in accessing hospitals during COVID-19 lockdowns.
If planning to travel to Pakistan with your medicine, please consult NHS advice before travel.
For contact details for English speaking doctors, visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Pakistan.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Testing Positive for COVID-19 in Pakistan
Government of Pakistan guidelines state that if you test positive for COVID-19 whilst in Pakistan, you must self-isolate.
If you don’t have symptoms, or your symptoms aren’t severe, you should isolate where you are staying, provided you have access to a separate room and bathroom. If you are immunosuppressed or have a severe health condition, and providing Government of Pakistan resources allow, you may be moved to a hospital.
If you do not have access to a separate room and bathroom, or you do not consent to isolate where you are staying, you should move to a dedicated self-isolation facility. More information is available on the official government of Pakistan website on COVID-19.
Government of Pakistan guidelines state that if you have symptoms, your isolation should finish at least 10 days from the start of symptoms or at least 3 days after the end of symptoms (whichever is longer). If you don’t have symptoms, your isolation should finish ten days from the date of your positive COVID-19 test.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Pakistan
We will update this page when the Government of Pakistan announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Pakistan national vaccination programme started in February and is using the AstraZeneca, BioNTech, CanSino-Bio, Moderna, Pfizer, Sinopharm, Sinovac, Sputnik V vaccines.
The Government of Pakistan has stated that British nationals in Pakistan are eligible for vaccination if they choose to join the programme. Further information on the vaccination programme is available on the Government of Pakistan website.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in Pakistan, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access if you’re unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
Further information
You can find further information on Pakistan’s response to the coronavirus pandemic at the official government of Pakistan COVID-19 Health Advisory page.
