The information on this page covers the most common types of travel and reflects the UK government’s understanding of the rules currently in place. Unless otherwise stated, this information is for travellers using a full ‘British Citizen’ passport.
The authorities in the country or territory you’re travelling to are responsible for setting and enforcing the rules for entry. If you’re unclear about any aspect of the entry requirements, or you need further reassurance, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
Entry rules in response to coronavirus (COVID-19)
Entry to Pakistan
On 21 December, the Pakistan government announced that, due to the COVID-19 situation, inbound travellers from the UK, or those who have been in the UK in the last 10 days, will not be able to enter Pakistan. On 4 January, the Pakistan government announced that the restriction will be extended until further notice.
There are some exemptions to this restriction:
From 12:01am on 5 January until 11:59pm on 8 January: All Pakistani passport holders (including holders of a Work Permit) who travelled to the UK on any kind of visa issued by the UK government are allowed to enter Pakistan. There are some additional arrangements on arrival – please see Pakistan government advice for relevant details.
From and including 9 January: All those who have a Pakistani passport, National Identity Card for Overseas Pakistanis (NICOP) or Pakistani Origin Card (POC) are allowed to enter Pakistan. There are some additional arrangements on arrival – please see Pakistan government advice for relevant details.
The Pakistani authorities have closed land borders with Afghanistan, India and Iran. Despite this, there are ongoing limited border openings for repatriation and trade. Those crossing into Pakistan may have to comply with coronavirus testing and quarantine measures. The FCDO currently advises against travel to the most of the Afghanistan and Iran border areas.
Since 9 August, airlines are allowed to operate international flights from all airports in Pakistan. Reinforcement of screening and administrative measures at all sea ports has been announced.
Testing / screening on arrival
From 5 October 2020, all international travellers to Pakistan are required to present evidence of a negative COVID-19 test, taken within 96 hours of the start of travel. The Pakistan government COVID-19 website lists certain countries from which travellers are exempt from this requirement. Travellers from the UK are currently required to test before travel. The list of exempted countries is reviewed every two weeks. You should not use the NHS testing service to get a test in order to facilitate your travel to another country. You should arrange to take a private test.
International travellers travelling by air that show symptoms of COVID-19 on arrival are required to take a COVID-19 test and self-isolate if the result is positive. Self-isolation guidance is also available on the Pakistan government COVID-19 website.
Travellers to Pakistan will also be required to provide their contact information through the Pass Track App or through a web-based form. If necessary you may also be able to fill in a health declaration form on arrival.
Government guidelines, issued on 18 November, state that children under the age of 12 and disabled passengers are exempt from the COVID-19 test requirement and Pass Track App requirement. However they will be required to complete a health declaration form upon arrival.
Government guidelines state that all international air passengers travelling to Pakistan are subject to screening for COVID-19 symptoms on arrival, including thermal screening. If you’re found to be symptomatic, you will be allowed to proceed to your destination but you will be required to have a COVID-19 test within 48 hours of arrival and submit the results of the test to the authorities. If the test is positive you will have to self-isolate in line with Pakistan’s guidelines.
You may also be required to follow special measures before boarding flights to Pakistan and while on board the aircraft, including the wearing of a face mask.
Pakistan government guidance, including links to the Pass Track App and web-based form is available on their COVID-19 website.
Screening on departure
If you’re leaving Pakistan, you will be screened at the airport for any symptoms of COVID-19. You will also be subject to thermal screening for high temperatures. If you’re free from symptoms you will be allowed to travel. If you’re suspected of having symptoms of COVID-19, including fever, cough and breathing difficulty, you will be subject to a secondary screening by a medical professional. After which, you may be allowed to board if it is assessed that you do not have symptoms, have not been at risk of exposure and do not have a fever. If the secondary screening assesses that you may have COVID-19 you may be asked to self-isolate for 14 days before you can travel. You may also be referred to a medical facility.
Regular entry requirements
Visas
If you’re travelling to Pakistan on a British passport, you will need to get a visa before you travel. Visa violations can be treated as a criminal offence and could result in a fine or detention.
Journalists’ visas often have additional travel restrictions, which you should observe.
For further information consult the High Commission for Pakistan in London, including for information on any changes in visa process during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic.
Passport validity
Your passport should be valid for a minimum period of 6 months at the time of your visa application.
National Identity Card for Overseas Pakistanis (NICOP)
You can enter Pakistan visa free and remain there for an unlimited period of stay if you hold a valid National Identity Card for Overseas Pakistanis (NICOP) or Smart National Identity Card for Overseas Pakistanis (SNICOP). For more information visit the website of the High Commission for Pakistan in London.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are valid for entry into Pakistan. Holders of an ETD entering or leaving Pakistan will need to have either a valid visa or a National Identity Card for Overseas Pakistanis (NICOP) / Smart National Identity Card for Overseas Pakistanis (SNICOP) issued by the government of Pakistan.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
Travelling with children
A single parent or other adult who is not the child’s parent may need to provide documentary evidence of parental responsibility, particularly if the child is of Pakistani origin, before the immigration authorities will allow the child to leave the country.
Exit requirements
All passengers leaving Pakistan must have a valid visa, a Pakistani national identity card or a valid Pakistani passport. If you are travelling on a British passport and your visa has expired you may not be allowed to board your flight unless you have a visa extension or an exit visa. Contact the Ministry of Interior, or refer to the website of the Directorate General of Immigration and Passports for instructions on visa extensions and exit visas.
If you’re visiting Pakistan for more than 4 weeks, you may need to provide proof of polio vaccination when you leave Pakistan. For more information, see the website of the National Travel Health Network and Centre.
