At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Coronavirus
There is an ongoing outbreak of coronavirus (COVID-19). The virus originated in China, but cases have been confirmed in several other countries, including Pakistan.
The Pakistan Government is taking precautions to prevent the spread of the virus, including the closure of schools.
On 13 March the government announced the closure of the border with Iran, Afghanistan and Sost border with China. The Wagah Border with India is also closed. On 21 March, the government of Pakistan announced the suspension of all international flights to Pakistan, effective from 2000 PST on 21 March until 2000 PST on 4 April. The government of Pakistan described the measure as a ‘temporary suspension imposed due to exceptional circumstances’. We understand that the suspension applies also to international flights out of Pakistan. Despite this suspension, we understand that some airlines may be planning one-off or limited services leaving Pakistan in the next few days. If you wish to leave, you should contact airlines and travel agents immediately. If transiting a third country, please check that you will be able to fly on to the UK. Some internal flights within Pakistan have also been cancelled.
Reinforcement of screening and administrative measures at all sea ports have been announced.
The Pakistani authorities have announced a helpline on phone number 1166 for people who have recently travelled to China, Iran or a country where COVID-19 is present and who have symptoms like fever, cough and difficulty breathing. British nationals who are worried about the virus, or suspect they may have contracted it, should contact that number and follow the guidance given by the authorities.
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
You can find more information about cases in Pakistan on the TravelHealthPro website.
Medical treatment
Local medical facilities are not comparable to those in the UK, especially in remote areas. For psychiatric illness, specialised treatment may not be available outside major cities in Pakistan. Private medical care is available in all major cities, but expensive. There is an increasing risk that the healthcare system will come under significant further strain as the number of COVID-19 cases increases. Access to routine and emergency healthcare may be limited. The British High Commission Islamabad maintains a list of medical facilities in different cities of Pakistan. You are strongly advised to have comprehensive travel insurance that covers the duration of your stay in Pakistan.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial Rescue 1122 which provides an ambulance service. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
Other health risks
There has been an outbreak of Chikungunya virus and Dengue fever also occurs in Pakistan, especially during and just after the monsoon season. Two cases of extensively drug-resistant typhoid have been reported in travellers returning to the USA. You should follow the advice of the National Travel Health Network and Centre.
You should take steps to avoid being bitten by mosquitoes.
Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 15 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
Take care when purchasing bottled water. A recent government report found a number of bottled water brands to be contaminated.
