

Local laws reflect the fact that Pakistan is a Muslim country. You should respect local traditions, customs and laws at all times and be aware of your actions to ensure that they do not offend.
Standards of public behaviour differ greatly between the UK and Pakistan; Pakistan is culturally conservative. What might be acceptable in the UK can cause offence in Pakistan. Consideration of others is important in Pakistani culture, with loud boisterous behaviour in public frowned upon and likely to draw comment or response.
Ramadan
Ramadan, also called Ramazan or Ramzan in Pakistan, is a holy month for Muslims. The dates vary by year and country. Ramadan in 2024 in Pakistan begins in early March and lasts for approximately 30 days. During this time, the following actions may cause offence:
Eating, drinking, smoking or chewing gum in public in the daytime, including in your car
Playing loud music or dancing in public areas
Swearing in public
Get more advice when you arrive from your tour guide, hotel or business contacts.
You should also:
Check opening hours of shops and restaurants
Be aware that if hotels and restaurants are providing food or drink during fasting hours, they may separate you from Islamic guests, for example with screens
Dress modestly - clothing that doesn’t meet local dress codes may cause more offence at this time
Be aware that traffic may be unpredictable, and show extra consideration of other drivers
Be patient and show tolerance
There may also be a higher risk of terrorist incidents during Ramadan. Avoid large gatherings and exercise caution and remain vigilant at hotels, airports, markets, shopping malls and restaurants. For more information, see our Terrorism section.
ID
You should carry some form of photo ID at all times.
Dress
You should dress modestly at all times. Men and women should cover their shoulders and legs when in public. Women should cover their heads when entering mosques or other holy places, and when travelling in rural areas.
Alcohol
Consumption of alcohol is illegal for Muslims. Public consumption and drunkenness are illegal and can lead to detention.
Blasphemy
Blasphemy is illegal and has a broad definition in Pakistani law. It includes public and private comments in any form, including on social media. The state enforces blasphemy laws and there are significant criminal penalties up to and including the death penalty. In addition, those accused of blasphemy are at significant risk of violence from members of the public. Both Muslims and religious minorities have been victims of blasphemy accusations and violence, including killings. Visitors should therefore be sensitive to religious beliefs and behave accordingly.
Criminal proceedings
The death penalty can and has been imposed for crimes including blasphemy, murder, drug offences and rape.
Importing good
Importing alcohol and pork products is illegal. and neither are readily available in Pakistan. Penalties for illegal importation could include detention.
LGBT
Homosexuality is illegal. See our information and advice page for the LGBT community before you travel.
Relationships
Cohabitation by an unmarried couple is illegal.
Drugs
Possession of even small quantities of illegal drugs can lead to imprisonment. A number of British nationals have been arrested on drug trafficking charges and face long periods in detention on remand as their cases make their way through the Pakistan legal system. Drug trafficking can attract the death penalty.
Consular Assistance
If you or your parents were born in Pakistan, you might be considered a Pakistani national by the local authorities even if you do not hold a Pakistani passport, and the British government may be prevented from providing the full range of consular assistance.
Be aware that consular staff are limited by the same travel restrictions as other foreign nationals and therefore may be unable to provide in-person assistance in some areas. However, 24 hour remote assistance is available in London on 020 7008 5000.
Photography
Do not take photographs at military establishments, airports or any infrastructure, including bridges and dams including from aircraft. In the past British nationals have been arrested on suspicion of ‘spying’. Seek permission from any official, especially in border areas.
