!
Warning
FCDO advises against all travel to parts of Pakistan.

This section has safety advice for regions of Pakistan. It only covers regions where The Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) has specific advice.
You should also read FCDO’s overall travel advice and safety and security advice.
Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Province
FCDO advises against all travel to these districts in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Province:
Bajaur
Bannu
Buner
Chārsadda
Dera Ismail Khan
Khyber
Kohat
Kurram
Lakki Marwat
Lower Dir
Mohmand
Orakzai
Peshawar, including the city of Peshawar
Swat
Tank
North Waziristan
Upper South Waziristan
Lower South Waziristan
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to:
Arandu town
the road between Mirkhani and Arandu
FCDO advises against all travel to much of the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province because of military or militant activity in many of the districts. There is frequent militant violence in the former Federally Administered Tribal Areas. Local curfews could be imposed at short notice. There can be cross-border attacks in the surrounding areas of Arandu to the south and west of Chitral.
N45 Highway between Mardan and Chitral
FCDO advises against all travel on the N45 Highway, from the north of the Mardan ring road, to the edge of the city of Chitral because of terrorism incidents.
Balochistan Province
FCDO advises against all travel to Balochistan Province, except the southern coast of Balochistan.
The situation at the Pakistan-Iran border can be extremely tense. In January both Iran and Pakistan conducted missile and drone strikes targeting militant groups on either side of the border.
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to the southern coast of Balochistan. That is:
the area south of (and including) the N10 motorway
the section of the N25 from the N10/N25 intersection to the Balochistan-Sindh border, including the port city of Gwadar
There is a high risk from kidnapping and militant activity in much of Balochistan. If you plan to visit the southern coast of Balochistan, get permission from the authorities and have security arrangements in place.
Pakistan-administered Kashmir
FCDO advises against all travel to within 10 miles of the India-Pakistan border area within Pakistan-administered Kashmir, known as the Line of Control.
There is regular military activity on the Line of Control. Although there is a ceasefire in place, there are significant tensions between India and Pakistan. There is a serious risk of small arms fire and occasional mortar fire.
Make sure you have the necessary permissions to travel. Check the latest requirements before you travel as they can change.
Sindh province
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to all areas of Sindh province north of and including the city of Nawabshah.
There are high levels of lawlessness in the north of Sindh province. There is a very high risk of crime and kidnapping. Criminal gangs and bandits with access to heavy weaponry are active in the area. In 2022, a large criminal gang attacked police in Ghotki, northern Sindh, killing several officers and taking other officers hostage.
Gilgit-Baltistan region
Flight schedules schedules to Gilgit and Skardu Airports in the North of Pakistan may be unreliable and may change at short notice. You should consult your airline or travel agent.
Road routes are also likely to be restricted by seasonal weather, with the Babusar Pass liable to close due to snowfall.
The terrain in Gilgit-Baltistan is mountainous, with remote and isolated locations that are difficult to police. You are strongly advised to get local security advice and make appropriate personal security arrangements before you visit.
All foreign nationals must register with the local authorities when visiting Gilgit-Baltistan. You might need a permit for mountaineering or trekking, in particular for mountains over 6,000 metres. The permission process can take up to 2 months and is best organised through a travel company. The validity of your travel insurance policy may be affected if you do not have the correct permits.
Use reputable trekking agencies, stay on established routes, and always walk in groups. Do not trek alone.
Karakoram Highway (Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and Gilgit-Baltistan)
The Karakoram Highway runs from Hasan Abdal in north Punjab towards Gilgit and the Chinese border. FCDO advises against all travel on the Highway between Mansehra and Chilas via Battagram, Besham City, Dasu and Sazin up to the junction with the N15.
Avoid travelling on the Highway at night, as the road can be narrow with steep drops. All sections of the Highway north of Battagram up to the Chinese border have experienced landslides.
Islamabad
Following a reported security threat within sector E8 you should avoid the Margalla Road between E8 and F8 in Islamabad.
Police and security agencies have a significant presence in Islamabad. Exercise caution in the outlying districts, such as I-8, I-9, I-10 and areas further west, where security forces have led operations against suspected criminals and terrorists.
Avoid all protests. Crowded areas such as the Red Mosque (Lal Masjid) and Aabpara Market in G-6 have been a focal point for protests.
Karachi
Levels of violence can vary. The safety of daily activity can be unpredictable. Criminal and political violence is common, including armed carjacking, robbery, kidnap and murder. Strikes called by religious and political parties can cause significant disruption and sometimes lead to violent civil unrest. Smaller-scale labour strikes are also common and cause regular disruptions locally.
There is a risk of violence in parts of the city which include government offices. Major hotels and the financial district are generally seen as more stable, though there remains a risk of violence, particularly after Friday prayers.
You should:
plan any travel in the city carefully
take advice from hosts or trusted contacts, follow instructions from law enforcement officers and be prepared to cancel or cut back your plans
be especially vigilant in Lyari, Malir, Quaidabad and Orangi Town – they have a greater risk of violence based on past activity
There’s a high threat of terrorism throughout Pakistan, including Karachi. Attacks in Karachi have included:
February 2023 – militants attacked a police station in the city killing police officers
2022 – a suicide bomb at the University of Karachi targeted Chinese nationals and killed 4 people
public service and health officials have been attacked while working on health programmes
Lahore
Lahore is the capital of Punjab and attracts large numbers of tourists and business travellers. While the city has a widespread police presence, there have been recent terrorist attacks. These have targeted public places and government or security forces. Avoid religious events or gatherings, public events and large crowds of people.
Punjab
If you travel to southern Punjab take advice about the local security situation in advance. There is a high level of crime and public order incidents.
Border areas
Except for official border crossing points, foreigners are not allowed to travel within certain distances of Pakistan’s international borders. This includes:
travel to within 5 miles of Pakistan’s border with India and within 10 miles of the Line of Control
10 miles of the border with China
10 miles of the border with Afghanistan
If you travel to these areas you may be arrested and detained.
The situation for border crossings between Afghanistan and Pakistan may change rapidly due to the security situation in Afghanistan. The FCDO advises against all travel to Afghanistan or within 10 miles of the Afghan border as well as Pakistan’s Balochistan Province and a number of districts in Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa Province.
