Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

There are currently limited commercial options available to return to the UK from Pakistan. The Government of Pakistan has extended the suspension of scheduled international flights until 11.59pm PST on 15 May.
We know this is concerning for British people trying to leave Pakistan. The UK government is working closely with airlines, the Pakistan authorities and other governments to make sure options are available for you to return to the UK as soon as possible.
UK special charter flights
The UK is currently operating a series of special charter flights from Pakistan for British nationals who normally live in the UK and their direct dependants to return to the UK. This is being done in partnership with Corporate Travel Management (CTM) who are a commercial partner of the FCO.
Places on the first round of flights, from Islamabad and Lahore to London Heathrow and Manchester between 21 and 27 April have been allocated.
Due to high demand, there will be a second round of direct charter flights from 30 April to 7 May, including a flight from Karachi. For this round of flights the cost of a ticket from Islamabad and Lahore is £522 and from Karachi is £498.
If you are a British national on a short-term visit to Pakistan, wish to return to the UK and have not already registered on the booking portal, you should do so as soon as possible. All remaining registration portals will close on 1 May and there is no guarantee that there will be further flights.
You should also note that:
If you have previously registered for flights from Islamabad or Lahore, you should not register again. Those on existing waitlists will be prioritised for the second round of charters
If you wish to travel from Karachi, you need to register even if you have previously submitted an expression of interest in this route to the High Commission or the Deputy High Commission in Karachi. Do so as soon as possible, as the flight is departing on 30 April
If you wish to travel together on the same flight, you must register as one group during registration. There is a maximum group size of 10
If you need special assistance at the airport, let us know when you register
The UK Government’s focus is on bringing home stranded British nationals, and foreign nationals travelling with close family members who are British nationals. We are currently prioritising individuals in these categories for flights. Vulnerable non-British UK residents with Indefinite Leave to Remain, and other foreign nationals, may only be accommodated if there is sufficient capacity. Your eligibility for flights, including your UK address, will be checked before your tickets are issued
How to register
Register via the CTM portal for your departure airport from Pakistan:
Airport UK airports served Flight dates Booking link
Karachi London Heathrow 30 April register to book from Karachi
Islamabad London Heathrow 4 May register to book from Islamabad
Islamabad Manchester 30 April, 2, 5, 6 May register to book from Islamabad
Lahore London Heathrow 3 May register to book from Lahore
Lahore Manchester 5, 7 May register to book from Lahore
To register, you will need:
a valid passport, and to be able to meet the entry requirements of the UK
contact details for each traveller you are registering
your UK home address and postcode
your means of payment, such as credit or debit card details
To ensure that all flights leave as full as possible, we ask for payment in advance to confirm that people are definitely planning on travelling.
Payment does not guarantee you have a confirmed seat, only that there is availability on the route. Before payment, read carefully the eligibility criteria for the charter flights above. If you have already paid but are then found to be ineligible or if you are not allocated a seat for another reason, you will receive a full refund.
Eligible passengers who have paid will receive a confirmation email with their flight times at least 24 hours before the flight. Do not travel to the airport without a confirmed ticket, as tickets will not be on sale at the airport.
More information on the flights themselves, including cost and baggage allowances, is available when you register through CTM. Although in-flight meals will be provided, shops may not be open at the airport, so you should bring your own food and a refillable water bottle. You should also bring your passport and travel documentation, a face mask, and a printed copy of your confirmation email if possible, or an electronic copy if not.
Help with registering
If you have difficulty registering online, send an SMS text message containing ONLY your full name to +44 (0) 786 009 3013 and someone from CTM will get in touch to assist you. You should only send one message to this number. CTM will contact you. Do not contact the High Commission directly to reserve a seat as we are unable to take any registrations.
If you cannot pay the cost of the ticket, please send an SMS text message containing ONLY your full name to +44 (0) 786 009 3013 and someone from the CTM team will get in touch to discuss all other options available to you for getting funds. If you have exhausted all other options available to you for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan to cover the cost of the ticket. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
If you have an submitted a loan application through CTM, need to discuss this urgently, and are unable to make contact with CTM you can contact the British High Commission on +92 (0) 51 201 2000. You should select the option for emergency assistance for British nationals.
A small number of particularly vulnerable people may receive a call to alert you to these flights and recommend you register. To protect you from scams, callers will identify themselves to you using personal information you have already submitted to the High Commission. However, do not wait for a call – if you want to board one of these flights, register to book a flight now.
Cancelling a flight
If you wish to cancel your flight, contact CTM as soon as possible. You will be directed to a cancellation portal. Refunds will be processed within 14 working days by CTM. If you cancel your flight less than 24 hours before a flight’s scheduled departure, you will not be eligible for a refund. If a flight is cancelled with no replacement offered, refunds will be processed within 14 working days by CTM. If you fail to show up for a flight without prior notification, you will not be put on a future flight.
Other flights
Pakistan International Airlines (PIA) flights
Pakistan International Airlines (PIA) have announced they intend to operate a limited number of flights, including to Manchester, Birmingham and London, from 19 April. You should contact PIA offices for further information.
Qatar Airways flights
Qatar Airways is planning some special flights to London from Lahore on 25, 28 and 29 April and from Peshawar on 29 April. All flights will be via Doha.
To book tickets on these flights, you can call or visit any Qatar Airways booking office, or use the Qatar Airways website. Some tickets may also be available through travel agents.
Financial support for commercial flights
If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Travel to the airport
You will need to arrange your own travel to the airport. If you travel on the specially arranged charter flights, you should arrive at the airport at least 4 hours before the flight is due to depart.
Due to government restrictions, public transport is limited, and the authorities have discouraged all non-essential use of public transport. If you are travelling to Islamabad, Karachi or Lahore Airport you should, if possible, carry printed copies of your flight confirmation and have your passports easily to hand. If you cannot get a printed flight confirmation, carry an electronic copy.
Provincial and federal authorities have assured that you will be able to travel to the airport if you have a confirmed flight ticket and valid travel document. If you have been placed into a quarantine centre, or you are in an area that has been quarantined by the authorities, you may have to wait until the quarantine is lifted before being able to travel to the airport. Follow the advice of the relevant local authorities. If you are not allowed to travel across a checkpoint or if you are moved to a quarantine facility, call the British High Commission on 051 201 2000.
Some provinces have limited the number of people that can be in a vehicle. In addition, people who do not have a flight ticket, except the driver, may not be allowed to accompany travellers to the airport.
You are strongly advised not to travel to the airport if you are displaying any COVID-19 symptoms, including a high temperature. When you enter the airport, you will be thermal scanned by the Pakistani authorities. If you have a high temperature or other COVID-19 symptoms, you will not be permitted to fly. The Pakistan government are likely to take you to a quarantine facility, where you will be tested after 48 hours. If you test positive, will likely be moved to a hospital isolation facility. If you test negative, you will be released with instructions to self-isolate for a period of time determined by relevant authorities. Call us on 051 201 2000 if you are moved to a quarantine facility.
At the airport
You must wear a face mask at the airport. You will need to bring your own mask with you. Airlines and airport authorities will not provide masks.
You’re advised to bring sufficient food for your wait at the airport and a refillable water bottle.
The baggage allowance will be 2 suitcases weighing 23kg each and one additional carry-on bag per passenger. Excess fees will apply for any baggage above the allowance.
The Pakistan Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) require the plane to be disinfected prior to departing for Pakistan. Luggage will also be disinfected before it is loaded onto the plane. Cabin Crew will be required to wear personal protective equipment (PPE).
Qatar Airways are currently operating the special charter flights. If you need advice on conditions of carriage, including for pregnant women, check the Qatar Airways website before travelling.
Your journey home
If passengers present symptoms on the plane, cabin crew will follow Public Health England guidance on how to manage the risks to others. If you present symptoms on arrival in the UK, you should proceed home and self-isolate as per UK Government and NHS 111 guidance.
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Visas
The Ministry of Interior has confirmed that all types of visas issued to foreign nationals who are currently in Pakistan that expire between 15 March and 30 April 2020 will be deemed to be valid until 30 April 2020.
The standard UK entry requirements still apply to all those returning to the UK.
If you cannot leave Pakistan at this time
You should:
follow the advice of local authorities, including local measures to help minimise your risk of exposure to coronavirus
find accommodation that’s suitable for your needs.
keep in regular contact with family and friends at home, so they know you are safe and well
contact your airline separately to seek refunds for any previous flight tickets that you were not able to use. Please contact airlines directly to check whether a future commercial flight will operate or to check the availability of commercial flights.
See more information and advice about staying where you are if you cannot return to the UK.
Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British High Commission on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British High Commission on +92 (0) 51 201 2000. Select the option for emergency assistance for British nationals.
The High Commission cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone. This page will be updated when departure options become available. To get the latest information, sign up for travel advice email alerts.
Further information
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
