!
Warning
FCDO advises against all travel to parts of Pakistan.

You should also read FCDO’s overall travel advice and regional risks advice.
Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.  
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad. 
Terrorism in Pakistan
Terrorists are very likely to try to carry out attacks in Pakistan.
There is a high threat of terrorism and sectarian violence throughout Pakistan. Read our advice on regional risks in Pakistan for more information.  
Terrorist groups operating in Pakistan include: 
Tehreek-e Taliban Pakistan (TTP) 
Tehreek-e Jihad Pakistan (TJP)  
Balochistan separatists 
Islamic Sate Khorasan Province (ISKP)  
al-Qa’ida 
Terrorist groups mainly target Government of Pakistan security forces. Areas of Balochistan and Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, including Peshawar, suffer regular terrorist attacks. However, terrorist attacks could be indiscriminate and occur without warning, including in popular destinations frequented by foreign nationals. 
While terrorist attacks are mainly directed against the Pakistani state, attacks could be indiscriminate and occur without warning, including in places visited by foreigners, such as: 
Pakistani government personnel and institutions 
security and police force locations
political rallies, events and demonstrations  
places of worship, including churches and religious sites, and religious processions 
infrastructure projects
hotels, restaurants and shopping areas
courts and diplomatic premises
airports and public transport 
schools and educational institutions 
hiking trails
sports and live music events
densely populated and unsecured areas 
Take particular care during periods of national or religious significance, including the month of Ramadan, and during election periods. 
Advice for travellers 
There may be increases in security force presence and restrictions on movement may be put in place at short notice. Stay aware of your surroundings, keep up to date with local media reports and follow the advice of local authorities. You should: 
keep a low profile 
minimise your exposure to areas and events that post a higher risk  
avoid large organised gatherings, such as public protests, religious gatherings and processions, and political rallies 
vary your routes and timings if you make regular journeys 
limit movements on Friday afternoons 
avoid large crowds of people and public events 
be prepared to change your plans as necessary  
Terrorist kidnap 
There is a threat of kidnap throughout Pakistan, particularly within the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and Balochistan provinces. However, terrorist groups are unlikely to prioritise the kidnap of Westerners in Pakistan. Any kidnap of a foreigner by terrorist groups in Pakistan would likely be opportunistic. 
British nationals are seen as legitimate targets, including tourists, humanitarian aid workers, journalists and business travellers. If you are kidnapped, the reason for your presence is unlikely to protect you or secure your safe release.  
The long-standing policy of the British government policy is not to make substantive concessions to hostage takers. The British government considers that paying ransoms and releasing prisoners builds the capability of terrorist groups and finances their activities. This can, in turn, increase the risk of further hostage-taking. The Terrorism Act (2000) makes payments to terrorists illegal.
Political situation
Nationwide elections were held on 8 February. Although campaigning has taken place, political rallies and demonstrations may take place across the country. Previous experience shows that these have the potential to turn violent and could lead to clashes with law enforcement authorities. During previous elections, terrorists have targeted security forces, political events, rallies, government buildings and polling stations.
You should:
avoid all political demonstrations, large crowds of people and public events  
be prepared to change your plans as necessary 
keep track of the local news 
Public demonstrations are common. Protests can occur with little warning. Most are peaceful, but they can turn violent quickly.  
Travelling around Pakistan 
Pakistan authorities advise all foreigners (including diplomats) not to move out of their place of residence without proper security and co-ordination with the law enforcement agency. This is not rigorously enforced, but consider telling local authorities about any travel plans. There are a number of prohibited areas across the country. Officials could stop you and ask you to turn back. 
When travelling in Pakistan, you or your travel company should contact the local authorities of your destination in advance to check the local security situation. They may arrange police protection. They will also tell you if you need a No Objection Certificate from the Pakistani Ministry of Interior. 
Take safety precautions, keep a low profile and choose your accommodation carefully.
Crime 
Protecting your belongings 
Street crime is a risk. Take sensible measures to protect yourself and your belongings, particularly on public transport, in crowded areas and when travelling to and from the airport.  
Be cautious when moving around urban areas at night, especially when on foot. 
British nationals of Pakistani origin have been targeted by criminals, including kidnappers, as they are often perceived as being wealthier than locals. 
There is an active black market in forged and stolen passports. Credit card fraud is common. Be aware of scams.
Lawlessness  
Much of Balochistan, northern Sindh and Khyber Pakhtunkhwa have a high level of lawlessness.
Laws and cultural differences  
Pakistan is a Muslim country. Respect the local traditions, customs and laws. Make sure your actions do not cause offence. 
Standards of public behaviour differ between the UK and Pakistan. Behaviour that might be acceptable in the UK can cause offence in Pakistan. Being considerate of others is important in Pakistani culture. Loud or rowdy behaviour in public is likely to attract a negative response.
Personal ID 
You may be asked to show photo ID. You are advised to carry some form of photo ID at all times. 
Ramadan  
Ramadan, also called Ramazan in Pakistan, is a holy month for Muslims. The dates vary by year and country. In 2024, Ramadan in Pakistan begins in early March and lasts for approximately 30 days. During this time, do not:  
eat, drink, smoke or chew gum in public in the daytime, including in your car  
play loud music or dance  
swear in public  
Get more advice when you arrive from your tour guide, hotel or business contacts.  
You should also:  
check opening hours of shops and restaurants  
be aware that if hotels and restaurants are providing food or drink in fasting hours, they may separate you from Islamic guests, for example with screens  
follow local dress codes – clothing that does not meet local dress codes may cause more offence at this time  
be aware that fasting can cause tiredness  
be aware that driving may be unpredictable, particularly when people are trying to get home at dusk  
be patient and show tolerance 
Dress 
Dress modestly. Men and women should cover their shoulders and legs in public. Women should cover their heads when entering mosques and holy places, and in rural areas. 
Blasphemy 
Insulting or showing disrespect or contempt of religion, religious beliefs or anything considered sacred (blasphemy) is illegal. Blasphemy has a broad definition in Pakistani law. It includes public and private comments in any form, including on social media.
There are significant criminal penalties, including the death penalty. Those accused of blasphemy are at significant risk of violence from the public. Both Muslims and religious minorities have been victims of blasphemy accusations and violence, including killings.  
Be sensitive to religious beliefs and behave appropriately.  
Death penalty 
The death penalty is used for crimes including blasphemy, murder, rape and drug trafficking. 
Alcohol laws and bans 
Drinking alcohol is illegal for Muslims. Non-Muslims are allowed to drink in Pakistan, but you must get a licence from the authorities. It is also illegal for non-Muslims to supply alcohol to Muslims. Public drinking and drunkenness are illegal and can lead to detention. 
Illegal drugs and prison sentences 
You can be imprisoned for possession of even small quantities of illegal drugs. British nationals have been arrested on drug trafficking charges and have been detained for long periods while their case is in the Pakistan legal system. The death penalty can be used for drug trafficking. 
Photography 
Do not take photographs at military establishments, airports or any infrastructure (including bridges and dams) or from aircraft. British nationals have been arrested on suspicion of ‘spying’. Check with officials if you’re not sure whether you can take a photo.  
You should not take photos of people without seeking prior permission. 
LGBT+ travellers 
Same-sex relationships are illegal. Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers. 
Relationships 
It is illegal for unmarried couples to live together. 
Dual nationals  
If you or your parents were born in Pakistan, you might be considered a Pakistani national by the local authorities even if you do not hold a Pakistani passport. In this case, the British government may not be able to provide full consular assistance if you need it.
The National Identity Card for Overseas Pakistanis (NICOP) and Smart National Identity Card for Overseas Pakistanis (SNICOP) are issued to citizens of Pakistan who are not resident in Pakistan. If you hold either, you will be recognised as a citizen of Pakistan.
If you are a dual British and Pakistani national living or travelling in the country of your other nationality, we would not normally support you or get involved in dealings between you and that country’s authorities. Read more about who the FCDO can support abroad, including information for dual nationals.
Transport risks  
Road travel  
If you are planning to drive in Pakistan, see information on driving abroad. 
You need either a 1968 international driving permit (IDP) or a UK driving licence to drive in Pakistan. The 1926 IDP is not accepted any more. You cannot buy an IDP outside the UK, so get one before you travel.
Road safety 
Outside of the major motorways, the quality of roads is variable. Road conditions can be poor and there is a risk of carjacking. Local driving standards are erratic, especially at night. Take care on long road journeys and when travelling cross-country.  
The north of Pakistan is mountainous. Many roads, including the N15 highway between Chilas and Babusar in Gilgit Baltistan, are inaccessible at some times of the year due to extreme weather conditions. Many roads in these remote areas are of very poor quality with uneven surfaces. Landslides frequently block or destroy roads. Use experienced local drivers when travelling these routes and only in clear weather conditions. 
Taxis 
Avoid using street or e-taxis. Only use taxis from reputable, licensed companies where you call for a taxi and the operator contacts a taxi driver. 
Public transport 
Due to the level of crime, avoid using public transport, including the Metro Bus between Rawalpindi and Islamabad. 
Air travel 
The UK Air Safety List (ASL) lists all known airlines in Pakistan that do not meet international safety standards and are banned from operating commercial air services to, from, and within the UK. Check the UK Air Safety List when considering which airlines to fly with. The list is maintained by the Department for Transport, based on advice from the UK Civil Aviation Authority.
Flights to and from the mountainous areas in the north of Pakistan are frequently delayed or cancelled due to extreme weather.  
Rail travel 
Avoid using the railway network due to the risk of terrorist attacks and derailments. 
Sea travel 
The threat from piracy within Pakistan’s territorial waters is low. There is a significant threat of piracy in the Gulf of Aden and other parts of the Indian Ocean. Mariners should follow shipping industry guidelines on precautions to take.
Extreme weather and natural disasters 
Monitor local and international weather updates from the Pakistan Meteorological Department and see weather advisories from the National Disaster Management Authority. 
Monsoon 
The monsoon season in Pakistan is from late June to early October. Heavy rains can cause severe flooding, particularly in Sindh and Punjab provinces. 
Landslides 
Check local forecasts from the Pakistan Meteorological Department and be aware of the risk of landslides and road blockages, particularly in hilly and mountainous regions. Take extreme care crossing swollen rivers. 
Flooding  
Pakistan recently experienced flooding and landslides. Roads and bridges have been damaged or destroyed, affecting travel in many parts of the country. More information is available from the National Disaster Management Authority. 
Earthquakes 
Earth tremors are common. Read advice on what to do before, during and after an earthquake from the US Federal Emergency Management Agency.
