This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Pakistan as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Pakistan to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Pakistan
Pakistani authorities have introduced a number of measures to limit the spread of the virus, including school closures.
There are strict restrictions on public gatherings, including religious congregations, events in wedding halls, and sports matches.
Provincial measures
Some provincial authorities have introduced additional measures, including requiring residents to stay at home, and closing shops, restaurants and other public places. Most public transport has been suspended, and in some places there are limits on the number of people allowed to be in one car. Measures are particularly strict in Sindh and Punjab. It is now a requirement in some provinces to wear a face mask in public places. There have been reports of patrols and check points to enforce these measures, and some provinces have reportedly introduced powers to fine or arrest anyone breaking the rules.
Some provinces are also imposing compulsory isolation or quarantine for people who have COVID-19 symptoms, or people who have come into contact with others with COVID-19 symptoms. In some cases, local authorities are quarantining specific areas.
You should follow the federal and relevant provincial guidance, and monitor local media for updates. Plan any movements accordingly.
Domestic flights
From 16 May, limited domestic flight operations will resume from Islamabad, Lahore, Karachi, Quetta and Peshawar.
International flights
From 30 May, national and foreign airlines will be able to operate outbound commercial international flights from all international airports in Pakistan apart from Gwadar and Turbat. Inbound international flights will be allowed by special permission of the Government of Pakistan on a case by case basis.
For information on how to return to the UK from Pakistan, see Return to the UK
Visas
The government of Pakistan has confirmed that if you are in Pakistan and your visa has expired since 15 March, the expiry date will be automatically extended to 30 June 2020.
Health
The Pakistani authorities have announced a helpline (on phone number 1166) for people who have COVID-19 symptoms like fever, cough and difficulty breathing. If you are worried about the virus, or suspect you may have contracted it, call the helpline and follow the guidance given by the authorities.
If you are running out of medication or have medical needs, you should speak to your travel insurance company for advice and seek local medical assistance, including from pharmacies. Pharmacies remain open in Pakistan. If your usual medication is not available, speak to your travel insurer, ask a local doctor or request advice from your UK doctor.
For contact details for English speaking doctors, visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Pakistan.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If country is accepting subsistence loan, add: If you’re in Pakistan and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
