Terrorists are very likely to try to carry out attacks in Pakistan.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out more about the global threat from terrorism.
There’s a high threat of terrorism and sectarian violence throughout the country. The main terrorist threat comes from Tehrik-e Taleban Pakistan (TTP), an umbrella organisation of groups primarily based in the former Federally Administered Tribal Areas (FATA). Daesh is also active. While both groups’ activities are primarily directed against the Pakistani state, they have in the past stated an intent to launch attacks on western interests. TTP and Daesh conduct attacks throughout Pakistan.
Further attacks could be indiscriminate, including in places visited by foreigners. Previous methods of attack have included grenades, shootings, bombings and suicide bombs. Militants can launch complex and deadly attacks. Be vigilant, keep a low profile and vary your routes and timings if you make any regular journeys. You should avoid large organised gatherings which may expose you to higher risk, such as public protests, religious gatherings and processions, and political rallies. Courts and government buildings, security facilities or personnel can also be the target of attacks.
Foreigners, in particular westerners, may be directly targeted. Densely populated and unsecured areas, such as markets, shopping malls, hotels, restaurants, hiking trails, airports, public transport, infrastructure projects, schools and educational institutions are potential focal points for attacks. Additionally, take care if you’re planning to attend sporting events or live music venues. Attacks have previously targeted places that could be considered by militants to be un-Islamic, including CD/DVD shops and barber shops. In recent years, the Pakistani authorities have reintroduced major sporting events into the country, including the Pakistan Super League in cricket. Increased security measures are in place at these events. You should be extra vigilant at all times in such areas, follow the advice of security personnel and minimise your exposure to areas that pose a higher risk. There may be a higher risk of terrorist incidents during the month of Ramadan.
Pakistani government personnel and institutions, and the security forces, including police, are prime targets for attacks. Avoid key government installations and gatherings of uniformed personnel, and be vigilant in areas around diplomatic premises throughout Pakistan.
Places of worship, including churches, religious sites, minority religious sects and shrines are often targeted. You should avoid religious events or gatherings and limit movements on Friday afternoons. During holy periods/religious holidays there may be a higher risk of targeted attacks, including on western interests and religious minorities.
Areas of Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa, including Peshawar, suffer regular terrorist attacks. There are threats of attacks in Karachi and almost daily violence. Areas of Balochistan, including Quetta experience frequent attacks.
There’s a heightened threat of terrorist attack globally against UK interests and British nationals, from groups or individuals motivated by the conflict in Iraq and Syria. You should be vigilant at this time.
You should keep track of the local news. Incidents can occur and the security situation can deteriorate quickly. There may be increases in security force presence and restrictions on movement may be put in place at short notice.
Kidnap
There is a threat of kidnapping throughout Pakistan. Both terrorists and criminal groups are involved in hostage-taking.
If you are working or travelling in Pakistan, you should be alert to the threat of kidnap targeting Westerners, including British nationals. British nationals of Pakistani origin are at particular risk of kidnap for ransom. British and other foreign national kidnap victims have faced extended periods of detention. While some were ultimately released by their captors, others have been killed.
British nationals are viewed as legitimate targets, including those engaged in tourism, humanitarian aid work, journalism or business. If you are kidnapped, the reason for your presence is unlikely to serve as a protection or secure your safe release.
The long-standing policy of the UK government is not to make substantive concessions to hostage takers. The UK government considers that paying ransoms and releasing prisoners builds the capability of terrorist groups and finances their activities. This can, in turn, increase the risk of further hostage taking. The Terrorism Act (2000) makes payments to terrorists illegal.
