!
Warning
FCDO advises against all travel to parts of Pakistan.
!
Warning
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to parts of Pakistan.

Your travel insurance could be invalidated if you travel against advice from the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO).
Areas where FCDO advises against travel
Pakistan-Afghanistan border
FCDO advises against all travel to within 10 miles of the border between Pakistan and Afghanistan.
Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Province
FCDO advises against all travel to these areas in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Province: 
Bajaur 
Bannu 
Buner 
Chārsadda
Dera Ismail Khan 
Hangu
Karak
Khyber 
Kohat 
Kurram 
Lakki Marwat 
Lower Dir 
Mohmand 
Orakzai 
Peshawar, including the city of Peshawar 
Swat 
Tank 
North Waziristan
Upper South Waziristan 
Lower South Waziristan  
the Karakoram Highway between Mansehra and Chilas via Battagram, Besham City, Dasu and Sazin up to the junction with the N15  
the N45 Highway, from the north of the Mardan ring road, to the edge of Chitral City, including Kalash valley
Balochistan Province
FCDO advises against all travel to Balochistan Province.
Pakistan-India Border Area
FCDO advises against all but essential travel within 5 miles of the international border between Pakistan and India. The Wagah border crossing is closed.
Pakistan-administered Kashmir 
FCDO advises against all travel to within 10 miles of the Line of Control.
Sindh Province  
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to all areas of Sindh Province north of and including the city of Nawabshah.
Find out more about why FCDO advises against travel to these regions.
Flash flooding and landslides 
Above average rainfall is causing flash floods and landslides in Pakistan, damaging roads, bridges, and telecommunication infrastructure across the country.  
The Government of Pakistan’s National Disaster Management Authority is advising against all tourist activity to disaster-vulnerable areas. Follow local weather updates from the Pakistan Meteorological Department and follow weather advisories from the National Disaster Management Authority.  Also follow UK guidance on how to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards. If you are a British national in need of urgent assistance, contact us.
On 1st August 2025, the United States Embassy in Islamabad issued a travel advisory: Security Alert: U.S. Consulate General Karachi, Pakistan (July 31, 2025) - U.S. Embassy & Consulates in Pakistan.
The advisory says “The U.S. Consulate General Karachi received a report of a threat directed at high-end hotels in Karachi.  In response to such threats, the U.S. Embassy and Consulates sometimes place areas such as tourist attractions, hotels, markets, shopping malls and restaurants off-limits to official U.S. government personnel. The U.S. Consulate General in Karachi has temporarily limited visits by official U.S. government personnel to these hotels.”
India-Pakistan tensions
Following military exchanges which began on 7 May, the Government of Pakistan stated on 10 May that India and Pakistan have agreed to stop military action.  FCDO continues to follow the situation closely. Follow the advice of local authorities.
Before you travel
No travel can be guaranteed safe. Read all the advice in this guide. You may also find it helpful to: 
see general advice for women travellers
read our guide on disability and travel abroad
see general advice for LGBT+ travellers
read about safety for solo and independent travel
see advice on volunteering and adventure travel abroad
read the FCDO’s advice on if you’re affected by a crisis abroad
Travel insurance 
If you choose to travel, research your destinations and get appropriate travel insurance. Insurance should cover your itinerary, planned activities and expenses in an emergency. 
About FCDO travel advice
FCDO provides advice about risks of travel to help you make informed decisions. Find out more about FCDO travel advice.
Get travel advice updates
Sign up to get email notifications when this travel advice is updated.
Follow FCDO:   
travel advice on X
travel advice on Facebook
Travel Aware on Instagram
