Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for mainland Portugal, Madeira and the Azores on the TravelHealthPro website.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Portugal.
Travel in Portugal
The Portuguese government implemented a 4-stage plan for easing COVID-19 restrictions on 15 March. Most of mainland Portugal entered the fourth stage on 1 May. There are additional restrictions in some municipalities where the infection rate is higher.
See the Portuguese government’s website for details of the 4-stage plan.
Measures are still in place throughout Portugal to control the spread of the virus. There remains an ongoing civic duty to remain at home, whenever possible, and to observe the rules on social distancing when in public:
Keep a social distance of 2 metres
Use a face covering in enclosed spaces, and outdoors where a distance of 2m cannot be maintained
Wash your hands regularly
Your temperature can be taken on access to workplaces, healthcare facilities, and other enclosed spaces, as determined by the health authorities. You can also be asked to provide a negative COVID-19 test.
You can be fined if you breach the regulations.
Public spaces and services
Mainland Portugal
Access to public spaces and services and the right to spend time outside and move between municipalities vary according to the COVID-19 incidence rate in each municipality. The following measures are currently in place:
In the municipalities of Odemira and Portimão:
Shops and other commercial premises, with the exception of supermarkets, grocery and hardware stores, pharmacies and petrol stations, are closed.
Restaurants and cafés are closed, except for takeaway and food delivery services. Food that is collected must be eaten at home. The sale of alcohol is prohibited.
Travelling outside these municipalities is not allowed, except for essential purposes, such as to go to work or for medical treatment. If you have to travel outside your municipality, be prepared to show evidence of the nature of your journey, if asked.
Additional restrictions in São Teotónio and Longueira-Almograve in the municipality of Odemira
Due to an increase in the number of infections, travel to, from and through the parish towns of São Teotónio and Longueira-Almograve in the municipality of Odemira is not permitted. If you are already visiting or living in São Teotónio or Longueira-Almograve, you can leave home for essential shopping, to go to the pharmacy or health centre, or to go to work if you cannot work from home.
If you need to leave home, ensure you maintain the recommended 2m social distance, wear a face covering and stay close to where you are living.
For further details see the Portuguese government’s website (in Portuguese).
In the municipalities of Aljezur, Carregal do Sal and Resende:
Supermarkets, grocery and hardware stores, pharmacies, petrol stations and small high street shops are open.
Restaurants and cafés may open their terraces. Gatherings are limited to 4 people per table.
Groups of up 4 can take exercise together outdoors. Gyms are open.
For further details, see the Portuguese government’s website (in Portuguese)
In the municipalities of Miranda do Douro, Paredes and Valongo:
All shops and commercial premises are open
Restaurants and cafés are open. Gatherings are limited to 4 people per table indoors and 6 people per table outdoors.
Cultural venues, including museums, art galleries, cinemas, theatres and auditoria are open.
Outdoor events are permitted provided attendance is limited to 5 people per 100m2
Groups of up to 6 can take exercise together outdoors
For further details, see the Portuguese government’s website (in Portuguese)
In all remaining municipalities in mainland Portugal:
All shops and commercial premises are open until 9pm on weekdays and 7pm on weekends
Restaurants and cafés are open until 10.30pm. Gatherings are limited to 6 people per table indoors and 10 people per table outdoors.
Cultural venues, including museums, art galleries, cinemas, theatres and auditoria are open.
Group exercise outdoors and in gyms is permitted
For further details, see the Portuguese government’s website (in Portuguese)
Madeira and Porto Santo
Measures are in place in the autonomous region of Madeira to limit the spread of the virus. You are obliged to remain at home every day from 11pm to 5am the next morning. Shops and other commercial premises, with the exception of pharmacies, health centres and petrol stations, close at 10pm.
Restaurants and cafés can remain open until 10pm for takeaway and food delivery services only.
Further details can be found on the regional government’s website (in Portuguese). See also these frequently asked questions (in Portuguese). Information in English is available on the Madeiran Tourist Office website.
The Azores
Measures are in place throughout the autonomous region of the Azores to limit the spread of the virus.
There are 5 levels of risk in the Azores – very low, low, medium, medium high and high. Each level has its own restrictions. São Miguel is currently the only island classified as high risk. All other islands are very low risk.
Until further notice, you should stay at home:
On weekdays from 8pm to 5am
On weekends from 3pm to 5am
Restaurants and cafés are closed, except for food delivery and takeaways services. Shops close at 8pm during the week and at 3pm on weekends.
Keep up-to-date with any changes to the risk levels in your area and related restrictions on the Regional Government’s website. Change the language to English using the translation option at the bottom left-hand corner of the page.
Inter-island travel
If you are travelling from a high or medium risk island to a low risk island, you will need to:
show a negative RT-PCR COVID-19 test taken, at most, 72 hours before you travel, or
take a PCR COVID-19 test on arrival, or
show a medical report which proves you have recovered from COVID-19 within the previous 90 days.
You will also need to complete a passenger questionnaire before you depart.
If you are staying for more than 7 days, you will have to repeat the test 6 days after the first test. If you are staying for more than 13 days, you will have to repeat the test 12 days after the first test.
If your flight is cancelled or delayed and your PCR COVID-19 test exceeds the 72 hour timeframe, you will have to take a test on arrival and self-isolate until you receive confirmation of a negative result.
This does not apply to children aged 12 and under.
If you are travelling from a low risk island to another low risk island and you transit a medium or high risk island, you will not need a PCR COVID-19 test provided you remain airside throughout.
Face coverings
On mainland Portugal and in the autonomous regions of Madeira and the Azores, you must wear a face mask in all enclosed spaces. You should wear your face covering when you enter the building and keep it on until you leave. You must also wear a face mask outdoors where it is not possible to maintain a 2m social distance from people outside your family group.
These measures apply to everyone over the age of 10 on mainland Portugal and in the Azores, and over the age of 5 in Madeira and Porto Santo.
You can be fined if you breach the regulations.
You may be exempt from using a face mask both indoors and out on medical grounds. You will have to show a declaration from your doctor as evidence that you have a health condition that prevents you from wearing a face covering. You should observe strict social distancing and limit the time you spend in common areas in enclosed spaces. For further information (in Portuguese) on exemptions, see decree-law 62-A/2020 (Article 3(2).
Accommodation
If you are booking accommodation, check it meets the required hygiene and cleaning standards and look out for the Portuguese Tourist Board’s “clean and safe” certification.
Healthcare in Portugal
If you are feeling unwell and need assistance, call the Ministry’s helplines on:
Mainland Portugal: (+351) 808 24 24 24, press 9 for English
Madeira and Porto Santo: call (+351) 800 24 24 20
Azores, call (+351) 808 24 60 24
RT-PCR COVID-19 tests are carried out free-of-charge if you have a prescription issued by a national health service doctor. NHS testing is carried out at hospitals and laboratories by appointment.
If you need a COVID-19 test in order to travel, you should arrange to take a private test. Check when you book that the testing service can provide the appropriate COVID-19 test for your destination. You will not need a prescription, but you will have to show your passport and confirmed travel bookings. You will have to pay for the test in full. If you have health or travel insurance, check whether it will cover any expense you incur.
You will need to go to a pharmacy to get most medicines, though some non-prescription medication is sold at health stores in supermarkets and shopping centres. Pharmacies are widely available and are identified with a green cross. Find a pharmacy near you on the Pharmacy Association website.
UK prescriptions are not recognised in Portugal. Make sure you carry enough medication to last the duration of your visit.
If you need a repeat prescription, go to the nearest health centre or hospital A&E. You may have to pay for your medication. If you have an EHIC or a GHIC, you may be able to claim the cost back if your prescription is issued by a Portuguese state doctor.
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Portugal.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Portugal
Wherever possible British nationals should aim to be vaccinated in the country where they live. As further information is available about the national vaccination programme, this page will be updated. Sign up to get email notifications.
The Portuguese authorities have published guidance on their vaccination plan (only available in Portuguese). If you live in mainland Portugal or in the autonomous region of Madeira and belong to one of the following groups, there is action you can take now to ensure you are included in the vaccination programme at the appropriate time:
If you are aged between 50 and 64 and suffer from a serious heart, kidney or lung disease or are being treated for diabetes, cancer, chronic kidney disease, liver failure, hypertension or obesity. Check you are on the health authority’s list. If your name does not appear, follow the instructions in the link after you have inserted your details.
If you are over 65 and haven’t yet been offered an appointment to have the first dose of the vaccine or been infected with COVID-19. Book an appointment to be vaccinated.
If you are an independent healthcare worker who is not registered with a professional body and you have not yet had the first dose of the vaccine. Register to be vaccinated.
If you do not have a healthcare user’s number (número de utente) and you do not fall within any of the groups mentioned above. Register for the vaccine with the health authorities.
If you live in the Azores, use this form to register for the vaccine.
The Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) is the UK authority responsible for assessing the safety, quality and efficacy of vaccines. It has authorised the Pfizer/BioNTech, Oxford/AstraZeneca and Moderna vaccines for temporary supply and use in the UK. Find out more about MHRA approval for these vaccines.
British nationals living overseas should seek medical advice from their local healthcare provider in the country where they reside. Information about vaccines used in other national programmes, including regulatory status, should be available from the local authorities. This list of Stringent Regulatory Authorities recognised by the World Health Organisation may also be a useful source of additional information. Find out more information about the COVID-19 vaccines on the World Health Organisation COVID-19 vaccines page.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements. You should contact local authorities for information on testing facilities. See information above in Healthcare in Portugal.
Help and support
While you are in Portugal, your safety and security is the responsibility of the Portuguese authorities. You should follow their advice and comply with the measures they have put in place. For more information, see the Portuguese Ministry of Health website (available in English by clicking on the green globe symbol).
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
