This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Portugal set and enforce entry rules. For further information contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to. You should also consider checking with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
If you are travelling to Portugal for work, read the guidance on visas and permits as the rules have changed since 1 January 2021.
Entry rules in response to coronavirus
Entry to Portugal, including the autonomous regions of Madeira and the Azores
You can travel to Portugal for any purpose from the EU/EEA, the UK and from some other non-EU/EEA countries.
If you are travelling from any other non-EU/EEA country, you can only enter for essential purposes, such as to live with immediate family members, or for professional, educational, health or humanitarian reasons.
Check the Portuguese Immigration Service website for further details of the entry requirements.
Entering mainland Portugal by air, land or sea
Before you travel to mainland Portugal
You must complete an online passenger locator card and be prepared to show a negative COVID-19 test result certificate (except children aged 11 or under).
You may have a RT-PCR or an antigen test. Make sure the test you choose meets the following criteria:
all tests must be carried out by trained healthcare professionals. Self-administered tests are not acceptable
antigen tests must be completed within 48 hours of departure. They must meet the standards set out in the EU common list of Rapid Antigen Tests
RT-PCR tests must be completed within 72 hours of departure
You should not use the NHS testing service to get a test to facilitate travel to another country. You should arrange to take a private test. Check the information your test certificate must is required to contain.
Your airline may deny boarding if you cannot show an appropriate test certificate when you check-in for your flight. Check with your airline before you travel. The Portuguese authorities can deny your entry to Portugal if you do not have an appropriate COVID test certificate. If you are legally resident in Portugal, you will be allowed to enter but you will have to take a test at the airport at your own expense and you may be fined from €300 to €800.
If your test is positive, you will need to self-isolate for a period of at least 7 days at home or in a place indicated by the Portuguese authorities.
For further information on COVID-19 entry requirements, check the Portuguese Airport authority passenger guide and Visit Portugal website.
On arrival in mainland Portugal
Be prepared to show your COVID-19 test result to immigration or security staff.
Your temperature will be screened. If it is 38ºC or over or you show signs of being unwell, you may be required to take a further COVID-19 test and remain at the airport until you receive your test result.
Quarantining on arrival in mainland Portugal
If you have travelled from or transited any of the following countries in the 14 days prior to your arrival in Portugal, then you will have to self-isolate for 14 days: South Africa, Botswana, Eswatini (former Swaziland), Lesotho, Namibia, Zimbabwe or Mozambique.
The rules on quarantining apply to passengers arriving by air, as well as by road, rail or sea.
If the quarantining rules apply to you, complete this form.
Airside transit in mainland Portugal
If you are transiting Portugal by air on your way to another country, you will also need to show a negative COVID-19 pre-departure test certificate, even if you do not intend to leave the airport. You should also check the COVID-19 entry requirements for your destination country.
Travelling through Spain and France to Portugal
Check the requirements for entering and transiting France and Spain on FCDO Travel Advice, before you travel.
Check the requirements for crossing the land border into Portugal from Spain.
Entering Madeira and Porto Santo
You can travel to Madeira and Porto Santo with your UK COVID-19 vaccination and recovery record, EU digital COVID-19 vaccination certificate or a negative COVID-19 antigen test certificate issued within 48 hours of travel.
Before you travel to Madeira and Porto Santo
With the exception of children under the age of 12 (i.e. up to and including 11), you must:
register on the Madeira Safe travellers platform. If you are travelling with a child aged 11 or under, include their details in your registration
check your email account for your Madeira Safe access code and download the QR code for presentation on arrival
download your UK COVID-19 vaccination and recovery record (NHS COVID Pass) or EU digital COVID-19 vaccination certificate
If you do not have a vaccination certificate, take an antigen test within 48 hours of departure. Make sure the antigen test meets the following criteria:
it has been carried out by a trained healthcare professional. Self-administered tests are not acceptable
the test meets the standards set out in the EU common list of Rapid Antigen Tests
You should not use the NHS testing service to get a test in order to facilitate your travel to another country. You should arrange to take a private test. Check the information your test certificate is required to contain.
Your airline may deny boarding if you cannot show a vaccination and recovery certificate or negative COVID-19 antigen test certificate when you check-in for your flight. Check with your airline before you travel.
On arrival in Madeira and Porto Santo
You will be subject to health screening on arrival. You will be asked to show:
your Madeira Safe QR code,
your vaccination and recovery record, or a negative antigen test certificate taken 48 hours prior to your departure
If you do not have a vaccination and recovery record or a negative antigen test certificate, you will have to take an antigen test at the airport on arrival and remain at your accommodation until the results are known. This will take about 12 hours.
If your test is positive, you will have to self-isolate for a period of at least 5 days. If you need medical advice while you are in isolation, you should contact Saude 24 on +351 808 24 24 20 or send an email to saudepublica.drs@madeira.gov.pt. In an emergency, call 112.
Check the Madeira Tourist Board’s information for visitors for full details of entry requirements
Entering the Azores
Before you travel to the Azores
All travellers, including children, must:
complete and submit a passenger locator form
with the exception of children aged 12 and under, take an RT-PCR or antigen test 72 hours or 48 hours respectively before departure and upload the negative test result to the passenger locator form
If you are travelling to the Azores from mainland Portugal or Madeira, and you have an EU Digital vaccination or recovery certificate, you do not need to take a COVID-19 test prior to departure.
On arrival in the Azores
You will be subject to health screening on arrival. With the exception of children aged 12 and under, you will be asked to show a negative RT-PCR or antigen test taken within 72 or 48 hours of departure respectively.
Check the Visit Azores and regional government’s website for full details of entry requirements.
UK recovery and/or vaccination record
You can use your UK proof of COVID-19 recovery and/or vaccination record (digital or paper) to travel to Mainland Portugal, Madeira and Porto Santo provided:
you have been fully vaccinated with an EU approved vaccine at least 14 days before travel, or
you have recovered from COVID-19 no less than 11 days and no more than 180 days before you travel
If you are using a printed copy of your record, make sure it is dated from 1 November 2021 to ensure that the certificate can be scanned successfully.
Your COVID-19 test certificate
Make sure your COVID-19 test certificate contains the information set out in Annex II of the EU common list of Rapid Antigen Test. For example, it must
give your name, date of birth and passport number
the type of test taken and the date and time the sample was collected
the date of the result and the name of the testing facility or centre and responsible clinician
Regular entry requirements
Visas
Should you meet the criteria of the current COVID-19 restrictions, you should be aware that the rules for travelling or working in European countries changed on 1 January 2021:
you can travel to countries in the Schengen area for up to 90 days in any 180-day period without a visa. This applies if you travel as a tourist, to visit family or friends, to attend business meetings, cultural or sports events, or for short-term studies or training
if you are travelling to Portugal and other Schengen countries without a visa, make sure your whole visit is within the 90-day limit. Visits to Schengen countries within the previous 180 days before you travel count towards your 90 days
to stay longer, to work or study, for business travel or for other reasons, you will need to meet the Portuguese government’s entry requirements. Check the Portuguese Immigration Service (scroll to the bottom of the page) and check with the Portuguese Embassy what type of visa and/or work permit you may need.
if you stay in Portugal with a residence permit or long-stay visa, this does not count towards your 90-day visa-free limit
Any time spent in Portugal or other Schengen countries before 1 January 2021 does not count towards your 90-day visa-free limit.
At Portuguese border control, you may need to queue in separate lanes from EU, EEA and Swiss citizens.
Check your passport is stamped if you enter or exit the Schengen area through Portugal as a visitor. Border guards will use passport stamps to check you’re complying with the 90-day visa-free limit for short stays in the Schengen area. If relevant entry or exit stamps are not in your passport, border guards will presume that you have overstayed your visa-free limit.
You can show evidence of when and where you entered or exited the Schengen area, and ask the border guards to add this date and location in your passport. Examples of acceptable evidence include boarding passes and tickets.
You may also need to:
show a return or onward ticket
show you have enough money for your stay
If you are resident in Portugal your passport should not be stamped. You should proactively show your proof of residence as well as your valid passport at Portuguese border control. For further information, see our Living in Portugal guide.
Passport validity
If you are planning to travel to an EU country (except Ireland), or Switzerland, Norway, Iceland, Liechtenstein, Andorra, Monaco, San Marino or Vatican City, you must meet the Schengen area rules.
Your passport must meet 2 requirements. It must be:
less than 10 years old on the day you enter (check the ‘date of issue’)
valid for at least 3 months after the day you plan to leave (check the ‘expiry date’)
We are asking the European Commission to clarify the 10-year rule. Their guidance for Schengen border guards may not be updated until the spring of 2022. Until then, for some Schengen countries your passport may need to be less than 10 years old during your whole visit, and the 3 months at the end of your visit may need to be within 10 years of your passport’s issue date.
Check both the issue date and the expiry date in your passport. If you renewed your passport early, extra months may have been added to its expiry date. This could affect the requirement for your passport to be less than 10 years old.
Contact your travel provider or embassy of the country you are visiting if you think that your passport does not meet both these requirements. Renew your passport if you need to.
Travelling with children
Portuguese Border Control (SEF) advise that a child under the age of 18 who are travelling to Portugal alone or without a parent or legal guardian should either:
be met at the airport or point of entry by their parent or guardian, or
carry a letter of authorisation to travel from their parent or guardian. The letter should name the adult in Portugal who will be responsible for them during their stay. There is no legal requirement for the letter to be notarised. However, the onus is on the parent or legal guardian to provide reasonable evidence, including contact details, to confirm that adequate care arrangements are in place.
Resident minors leaving Portugal
A child under the age of 18 who is resident in Portugal must carry a notarised letter of authority from their parent or guardian if they’re travelling out of the country alone or without a parent or legal guardian. The letter of authority can be issued by:
one of the child’s parents (if the parents are married)
the parent the child lives with (if the parents are separated or divorced)
one of the adoptive parents (if the child is adopted) or
the child’s legal guardian
Further information in English, together with a standard form of words (in Portuguese), are available on the Portuguese immigration service website
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK ETDs are accepted for entry, airside transit and exit from Portugal.
