At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Coronavirus
Cases of coronavirus (COVID-19) have been confirmed in Portugal. The Portuguese authorities have put in place a series of measures to limit the spread of the virus. If you are currently in Portugal, follow the advice of local authorities. Anyone planning to travel to Portugal should consult their airline or tour operator.
Portugal declared a state of emergency on 18 March. This activated a a series of measures including significant restrictions on movement throughout the country in response to the corornavirus outbreak. These measures affect:
Public places and transport
Public gatherings are banned, most shops other than those selling food or other essential items such as pharmacies will be closed. All citizens have been instructed to remain at home unless they need to carry out one of the following activites:
• To buy food or other essential items
• To go to work if unable to work from home
• To go to hospital or health centres
• To carry out caring or similar duties or in case of real need
• To return to their primary residence
Public transport services will be operating at reduced levels.
Land borders
From 16 March until 15 April, there will be border controls on the land border with Spain. Cross border workers, goods traffic and people entering or leaving Portugal to return to their place of residence will be allowed to travel.
British nationals can still drive through Spain and France to return to the UK. While driving through France, they will need to complete an ‘attestation’ (declaration) specifying the reason for being outside.
If you are planning to use this route, check the latest travel advice for Spain and France ahead of your journey.
Since 19 March flights from Portugal to countries outside the EU/EEA, with the exception of the UK, USA, Canada, Venezuela, South Africa and Portuguese speaking countries have been suspended. Flights to Brazil will be limited to Rio de Janeiro and São Paulo. Flights to and from Italy and Spain remain suspended.
While flights to the UK are not affected by these measures, airlines have cancelled a number of flights between the UK and Portugal. If your travel plans are likely to be affected or you want to check on the status of your flight, contact your airline or travel company for the latest information.
We recommend that British Nationals who wish to leave the country make arrangements to do so as soon as possible.
Further information
While you are in Portugal, your safety and security is the responsibility of the Portuguese authorities. You should follow their advice and comply with the measures they have put in place. For more information, see the Portuguese Ministry of Health website (available in English by clicking on the green globe symbol). If you are feeling unwell and need assistance, call the Ministry’s helpline on (+351) 808 24 24 24 and press 9 for English. If you are in the Azores, call (+351) 808 24 60 24.
On 18 March, Portugal declared a state of emergency due to coronavirus (COVID-19.) The precise nature and scope of the emergency measures are expected to be announced on 19 March. In the meantime, British nationals in Portugal should limit their movements outside their accommodation wherever possible.
While you are in Portugal, your safety and security is the responsibility of the Portuguese authorities. You should follow their advice and comply with the measures they have put in place. For more information, see the Portuguese Ministry of Health website (available in English by clicking on the green globe symbol). If you are feeling unwell and need assistance, call the Ministry’s helpline on (+351) 808 24 24 24 and press 9 for English. If you are in the Azores, call (+351) 808 24 60 24.
On 15 March, the Regional Governments of Madeira and the Azores recommended against all but essential travel to and from the archipelagos until further notice. Travellers arriving in the regions will be subject to health screening and mandatory self-quarantine for a period of 14 days.
Cruise ships and yachts will not be permitted to dock at any of the ports in Madeira, Porto Santo or the Azores. Cruise ships can berth at ports on mainland Portugal, but passengers can only disembark if they are Portuguese nationals or residents.
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website
Healthcare
The rules on access to healthcare will stay the same until 31 December 2020.
You should get a free European Health Insurance Card (EHIC) before leaving the UK. After 31 December 2020, your UK-issued EHIC might not be valid.
The EHIC entitles you to state provided medical treatment that may become necessary during your trip. Any treatment provided is on the same terms as Portuguese nationals. If you don’t have your EHIC with you or you’ve lost it, you can call the Department of Health Overseas Healthcare Team (+44 191 218 1999) to get a Provisional Replacement Certificate.
It is important to take out comprehensive travel insurance that includes cover for emergency medical treatment and associated costs. The existing EHIC arrangements are not an alternative to travel insurance, as some health-related costs, including for medical repatriation, ongoing medical treatment and non-urgent treatment, are not covered. Read more about what your travel insurance should cover.
If you’re living in Portugal, you can also find more information on healthcare for residents in our Living In Portugal guide.
If you feel unwell, seek medical attention or check the Portuguese health service website for information on how you can get advice in English. Consider carrying an Emergency ID Card to help the health services assist you in an emergency.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 112 and ask for an ambulance. If you are referred to a medical facility for treatment you should contact your insurance/medical assistance company immediately.
