Earthquakes
The Portuguese Civil Protection authorities in the Azores are monitoring an increase in seismic activity on the island of São Jorge. Developments can be followed on the Earthquake Information and Surveillance Centre’s website (in Portuguese).
If you are travelling to São Jorge, follow local authority advice on the Civil Protection authority’s website or download the Prociv Azores app. Check also the municipal Facebook pages for Velas and Calheta for advice that is specific to these municipalities (in Portuguese).
Further general advice on what to do in the event of a tremor is also available online in Portuguese.
Forest fires
Mainland Portugal is currently in a state of contingency due to exceptionally high temperatures and a heightened risk of forest fires. Measures in place include a ban on:
Walking through or remaining in woodland areas, including forest, woodland and rural trails
Burning garden and other agricultural waste
Clearing agricultural land by resorting to burning
Using garden and farm machinery in or near woodland areas
Setting off fireworks
During the state of contingency, you can be prosecuted if you do not comply with these restrictions or if you do not follow the instructions of the civil protection and police authorities.
Forest fires can occur anywhere in Portugal during the summer months. In recent years, fires have become more frequent due to drought and high temperatures. Forest fires are highly dangerous and unpredictable. The Portuguese authorities may evacuate areas and close roads for safety reasons.
If you are travelling in Portugal during the summer period, you should familiarise yourself with local safety and emergency procedures, remain vigilant and follow the advice of the Portuguese authorities. Causing a forest fire is treated as a criminal offence in Portugal, even if unintentional.
For information on the risk of forest fires (interactive map), visit the pages on the Portuguese Met Office website for continental Portugal and Madeira. For severe weather warnings, visit the European Meteorological Services website
If you see a wild fire, call the emergency services on 112.
