Coronavirus guidance is being updated.
Read the Prime Minister’s statement for the latest information.

There remain commercial options to return to the UK from Portugal.
If you live in the UK and are currently visiting Portugal, you’re strongly advised to return now by commercial means. Don’t run the risk of getting stranded.
UK special charter flights will only operate for priority countries where commercial flights are not possible. You should not assume that these flights will become available in countries where commercial routes are operating.
Passenger ferries between Spain and the UK are scheduled to start operating on 30 June. For the latest information on sailings and availability, check Brittany Ferries website.
Flights
There are regular flights operating between Portugal and the UK:
British Airways and TAP Air Portugal from Lisbon to London Heathrow
WizzAir from Lisbon, Porto and Faro to London Luton
Ryanair from Lisbon, Porto and Faro to London Stansted
Easyjet from Faro to Belfast.
These flights may be subject to change, and availability may reduce at any time.
For latest information on flight status and availability, check the British Airways, Ryanair, WizzAir, Easyjet and TAP Air Portugal websites.
Travelling to the airport
Travel to Lisbon airport is permitted. There are rail and bus links to Lisbon city centre from most parts of the country. Taxis are operating.
If you are coming to Lisbon by train, check availability and buy your ticket in advance online from CP, the Portuguese railway company. You may not be able to buy a ticket at the station. Get off the train at Entrecampos or Oriente.
If you are coming to Lisbon by bus, check availability and buy your ticket in advance online from the Rede Expressos, the Portuguese coach company. You may not be able to buy a ticket at the bus station or from the driver. Get off the bus at Sete Rios or Oriente.
Returning home from the Azores
If you have completed a period of self-quarantine in the Azores and you are now planning to return home, complete and submit this form to the health authorities. The health authorities will sign and return it to you so you can show it at the airport on departure.
Road travel
There are border controls on the land border with Spain until further notice. Cross border workers, goods traffic and people entering or leaving Portugal to return to their place of residence will be allowed to travel.
Travel via Spain
You can drive through Spain to return to your country of residence. You should carry your passport, proof of your country of residence and of onward travel (ie ferry or Eurotunnel booking). This letter in English, Spanish and French may also help you to explain to border authorities that you are travelling on to the UK.
Check FCO travel advice for Spain before travelling.
Travel via France
You can also drive through France to return to your country of residence. The French government have implemented their own measures, including the requirement to carry documentation justifying entry to and transit through France. Check the latest travel advice for France ahead of your journey.
Future travel options
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK.
For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Your journey home: re-entering the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK. You:
need to provide your journey and contact details up to 48 hours before you’re due to arrive in the UK
are not allowed to leave the place you’re staying for the first 14 days you’re in the UK except in very limited situations (known as ‘self-isolating’)
See also the list of people who are exempt from the border rules.
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) also provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British Embassy on +351 21 392 4000 (press 1 for English, then 2 for consular assistance, then 1 for urgent Coronavirus-related assistance).
The Embassy cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone.
Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British Embassy on Twitter and Facebook.
If you cannot leave Portugal
See advice on staying in Portugal during coronavirus.
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
