You should also read FCDO’s overall travel advice.
Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. You should remain vigilant at all times.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Portugal
Terrorist attacks in Portugal cannot be ruled out.
Attacks could be indiscriminate, including in places visited by foreigners. The Portuguese authorities take measures to protect visitors. Be aware of your surroundings and follow the instructions of the local authorities.
Crime
Protecting your belongings
Crime rates are low but pickpocketing, handbag snatching, and theft from holiday properties are common in major tourist areas. Foreign-registered and hire cars are often targeted by thieves. Thieves can use violence, you should:
keep sight of your belongings at all times
beware of thieves using distraction techniques
avoid carrying all your valuables together in handbags or pockets
leave spare cash and valuables in a safe place
avoid leaving items in an unattended car
Public transport
Pickpocketing is a risk. Take care on public transport and at busy stations and crowded bus and tram stops. Be particularly vigilant on the number 15 and 28 trams in Lisbon.
Passport theft
Report the loss or theft of your passport immediately to the local police and get a police report. You will need the report for insurance claims.
Holiday accommodation
Check your holiday accommodation is secure. Lock all doors and windows at night and when you go out.
If you’re worried about security at your accommodation, speak to your tour operator or the owner.
If you are worried about the security at your accommodation, speak to your tour operator or owner, or contact the local police at PSP (city police) or GNR (rural and small town police).
Personal safety
Attacks or assault, including sexual assaults are rare, but do occur. Buy your own drinks and keep sight of them at all times to make sure they aren’t spiked. Drinks served in bars overseas are often stronger than those in the UK. Stay with your friends, and don’t go off with people you don’t know.
World Youth Day 2023
World Youth Day 2023 will take place in Lisbon from 1-6 August 2023. If you are travelling for the event, make sure you read this travel advice and the useful information (under Participate) on the WYD Lisbon 2023 website.
If you are travelling to Lisbon during this period, you should expect an increase in the number of visitors using public transport and other facilities. Be aware that there may be restrictions on moving around the city on certain days when major events are taking place. Check the programme of events and read more about the gathering on the WYD Lisbon 2023 website.
Laws and cultural differences
Personal ID
By law, you must show some form of identification, if asked by the police or judicial authorities.  Sometimes a photocopy of the data page of your passport could be enough, but you may be asked to produce the original document.
Gambling
Gambling is only legal in places licensed by the government, such as official casinos. Games of chance, including bingo, are illegal if they’re held on unlicensed premises.
The police may act on reports of illegal gambling in unauthorised premises without warning. Organisers, participants and anyone on the premises may be arrested, charged with a criminal offence and fined or imprisoned. If in doubt, ask if the venue is legally licensed.
Illegal drugs and prison sentences
Selling or trafficking drugs is illegal and can have severe penalties. If you are caught taking, buying or in possession of drugs for personal use, you may be fined or arrested. Any substance you have will be confiscated.
Transport risks
Road travel
If you plan to drive in Portugal, see information on driving abroad and read the RAC guide.
If you hire a car, make sure you have the appropriate insurance.
Licences and permits
You can drive on a full, valid UK driving licence in Portugal.
If you’re living in Portugal, read living in Portugal for information on requirements for residents.
Driving a British car abroad
You may need a UK sticker to drive your car outside the UK. UK stickers have replaced GB stickers. Check the government guidance on displaying number plates for more information on what to do if you are driving outside the UK.
Bringing a vehicle to Portugal
Tourists can bring their own vehicle to Portugal for up to 183 days in any 12-month period. You must not use your vehicle for any other purpose than tourism or loan it to anyone else.
If you plan to stay longer, you must apply to the Portuguese Customs authority to have the car legally imported. You’ll be fined if you leave the country without your car.
Outdoor activities
Beaches and swimming
Every year, people drown in the sea and in swimming pools in Portugal.
Take care when walking close to the water’s edge especially along unsupervised stretches of beaches. Waves can be unpredictable and have a strong undertow. Do not:
swim at beaches that connect to or from rivers as they can have strong undercurrent
swim at beaches without lifeguards
dive into unknown water as hidden rocks or shallow depths can cause serious injury or death
Be aware of rip tides, which can cause drowning. If you are caught in a rip tide, do not try to swim against it. Swim parallel to the coastline until you no longer feel the current, then try to swim towards the shore.
Follow any lifeguard instructions and warning flags:
the red flag means danger: do not go into the water
the yellow flag means caution: you can walk in the water, but you cannot swim
More tips can be found on ABTA’s swim safe pages.
Look out for signs warning of cliff erosion. Falling rocks are a hazard, particularly in the Algarve. The authorities can fine people who ignore warning signs.
Walking the levadas in Madeira
Walking the levadas (ancient irrigation channels) can be challenging. Choose paths that suit your fitness and experience.
Be prepared for narrow, uneven paths and heights. Wear suitable clothing and walking boots. Take extra care if it has rained as the ground may be slippery and unstable. Check with your tour guide or local organiser that it is safe before you set off.
Leave details of where you are going with your hotel reception and take a phone with you. Reduce the risk by walking with a group or following a guide.
See more information about walkway closures and access restrictions on Visit Madeira.
Extreme weather and natural disasters
Forest fires
Forest fires can occur anywhere in Portugal. Risk of fires is higher when the weather is hot and dry. Fires have become more common due to drought and high temperatures.
Forest fires are highly dangerous and unpredictable. The Portuguese authorities may evacuate areas and close roads for safety reasons. You should:
familiarise yourself with local safety and emergency procedures
follow the advice of the Portuguese authorities
call the emergency services on 112 if you see a wildfire
Starting a forest fire, even if it is by accident, is illegal in Portugal.
For information about active forest fires and forecasts, visit the Portuguese Met Office website for information on Portugal and Madeira.
Earthquakes
Earthquakes can happen in Portugal. For more information, see the Portuguese Met Office website (mainland Portugal) or the Earthquake Information and Surveillance Centre (the Azores).
There is more advice on what to do during an earthquake on the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website.
Extreme weather warnings
For severe weather warnings, visit the European Meteorological Services website.
