Coronavirus guidance is being updated.
Read the Prime Minister’s statement for the latest information.

This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Portugal as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Portugal to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Portugal
For information on entering Portugal, see Entry Requirements
Portugal declared a state of emergency on 18 March. This activated a series of measures including significant restrictions on movement throughout the country. On 30 April, the Portuguese government announced the transition to a ‘state of public calamity’ and started a phased de-escalation plan. See the Portuguese government’s COVID-19 de-escalation plan (in Portuguese) for more information.
Social distancing measures
You are subject to mandatory confinement if you are:
suffering from or infected with coronavirus (COVID-19), or
being actively monitored by the health authorities for COVID-19 symptoms
Everyone else can leave their homes or accommodation provided they respect the measures in place on social distancing, occupancy and hygiene. This means remaining 2m apart from other people when in public, respecting rules on maximum capacity on public transport, in shops and other establishments and practising good hand hygiene. The use of non-surgical masks is mandatory in enclosed spaces, such as supermarkets, shops, beauty salons, schools, public services, at the airport, in taxis and on public transport.
Services that can now resume, subject to strict measures on social distancing and hygiene, include:
local shops
large stores and shopping centres
restaurants, cafés and bars (last orders at 11pm)
museums, art galleries, monuments and buildings of historical interest
cinemas, theatres and auditoria
hairdressers, barbers and beauty salons
bingo halls and casinos
Gatherings are limited to 20 people, except for religious ceremonies and family events, such as weddings and christenings. Attendance at funerals is limited to the space available at each cemetery or crematorium. Visits to retirement and convalescence homes are permitted. Public services are available by appointment only. Markets and fairs are subject to local authority approval. Beaches are subject to measures on capacity and social distancing. Check these measures and beach occupancy levels on the Portuguese Environment Agency website or download the “Info Praia” app.
Restrictions in the Greater Lisbon Metropolitan Area
Given the localised outbreaks of COVID-19 in the Greater Lisbon area, tighter restrictions will be in place in this area until further notice:
private and public gatherings are limited to a maximum of 10 people
reduced occupancy of shopping centres
shopping centres, shops and services will close at 8pm
restaurants can remain open until 11pm but only for serving food
the consumption of alcohol in public places, except on pavement cafes and restaurants, is banned
The sale of alcohol is banned at petrol and service stations Madeira and the Azores.
The regional governments of Madeira and the Azores are implementing similar phased de-escalation measures. You can consult full details (in Portuguese) of the regional governments’ de-escalation plans here:
Government of the Azores
Government of Madeira
If you are travelling to Madeira or Porto Santo, you will be subject to health screening on arrival and 14-days’ mandatory quarantine in a hotel. If you are resident in Madeira or Porto Santo and you can show evidence of a negative COVID-19 test, carried out 72 hours prior to arrival, you will be allowed to quarantine in your own accommodation. Complete and submit this form 24-48 hours before you arrive in the archipelago.
Cruise ships are allowed to dock in Madeira and Porto Santo for a maximum period of 48 hours, but passengers and crew are not allowed to embark or disembark.
If you are travelling to the Azores, you will be required to:
show proof of a negative COVID-19 test which was carried out 72 hours prior to arrival. If you are staying for more than 7 days, you will have to repeat the test locally 6 days after the date of the first test, or
take a test on arrival and await the results within a maximum of 48 hours in voluntary quarantine. If you are staying for more than 7 days, you will have to repeat the test after 6 days, or
agree to 14 days’ voluntary quarantine during which you will be required to be tested for COVID-19
If you cannot fulfil the entry requirements, you will be required to return to your country of origin.
Yachts are permitted to dock in the Azores, but crew members will be subject to the same health screening and voluntary quarantine measures as airline passengers.
For information on entering Portugal, see Entry Requirements
Accommodation
Campsites and motorhome parks are allowed to reopen to visitors provided capacity and hygiene measures are met.
Health
While you are in Portugal, your safety and security is the responsibility of the Portuguese authorities. You should follow their advice and comply with the measures they have put in place. For more information, see the Portuguese Ministry of Health website (available in English by clicking on the green globe symbol). If you are feeling unwell and need assistance, call the Ministry’s helplines on:
Mainland Portugal: (+351) 808 24 24 24, press 9 for English
Madeira, call (+351) 800 24 24 20
Azores, call (+351) 808 24 60 24 (available from 8.30am to 6.30pm)
You can only be tested for COVID-19 if you have a Portuguese prescription. Tests are carried out by appointment at hospitals and laboratories. Tests are free of charge if your prescription has been issued by a national health service doctor. You will have to pay for the test in full if your prescription has been issued by a private doctor. If you have health or travel insurance, check whether it will cover any expense you incur.
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers and healthcare for UK nationals visting Portugal.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Portugal.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Portugal and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
