Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Colombia on the TravelHealthPro website.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
Commercial flights are now operating to and from Colombia on a limited number of routes.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Colombia.
Returning to the UK
Travelling from and returning to the UK
Check what you must do to travel abroad and return to England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
If you plan to pass through another country to return to the UK, check the travel advice for the country you’re transiting.
You should contact local authorities for information on testing facilities (only available in Spanish).
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Public places and services
The health emergency will end on 30 June 2022.
Face masks are no longer mandatory in open spaces, in municipalities with a record of complete vaccination coverage greater than 70%.
In municipalities with a record of vaccination coverage greater than 70% and at least 40% booster doses, masks will also not be required in closed spaces, with the exception of health services, nursing homes and all modes of transport. From 15 May, this will also include educational institutes.
Consumption of alcoholic beverages is prohibited in public spaces.
Regional, departmental and city authorities may be implementing local measures. These may be introduced at short notice. You should check official guidance from the relevant local authority (please see websites for key cities below) as well as national COVID-19 regulations and updates by MinSalud (Ministry of Health):
Barranquilla
Bogota
Cali
Cartagena
Medellín
Santa Marta
Healthcare in Colombia
If you present symptoms in Colombia, you should contact your health care provider or call the national health line for coronavirus in your area
For contact details for English speaking doctors, visit our list of healthcare providers.
Pharmacies in Colombia are known as “droguerías”. They can be identified with a cross on the logo and can be easily accessed in the main cities in Colombia, but are less accessible in rural areas. Most pharmacies in Colombia will have a delivery service. You should note that prescriptions must be written in Spanish, in the metric system and using the medicine’s generic name.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Colombia.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Colombia
We will update this page when the Government of Colombia announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Colombian national vaccination programme started in February 2021 and is using the AstraZeneca, Janssen (Johnson and Johnson), Moderna, Pfizer-BioNTech and Sinovac vaccines.
Foreign nationals residing in Colombia are able to access the national vaccination programme if they choose to do so. This is currently only available to those registered on an EPS (state-mandated national health insurance scheme), which require a Colombian-issued identification. There is a process in place to register those who do not have access to a Colombian ID, in order to access the vaccination programme. You can find out more information about this on the Colombian government’s ‘Mi Vacuna’ platform (website may not be accessible outside Colombia).
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in Colombia, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
