This page has information on travelling to Colombia.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport from the UK, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Colombia set and enforce entry rules. If you’re unsure how Colombia’s entry requirements apply to you, contact its UK embassy, high commission or consulate.
All travellers
You will be required to show an onward or return ticket valid within the 90 day period allowed for their entry into Colombia as a visitor.
Between 24 hours and 1 hour before departure, you must fill out the ‘Check-Mig’ form, available on the Migración Colombia website. You will receive a confirmation email that you will need to present upon arrival in Colombia.
Surgical masks must be used by all passengers above 2 years of age throughout the journey, from entering the air terminal, during the flight and at the port of arrival. N95 masks (and their equivalents) are recommended for passengers above 60 years of age and those with pre-existing health conditions.
Colombia’s land, sea and river borders are open. Neighbouring countries may still implement their own border closures.
If you’ve had COVID-19
If you or someone in your household tested positive for COVID-19 within the last 14 days before your trip, you cannot enter Colombia.
If you’re fully vaccinated
If you’re fully vaccinated, you can enter Colombia without needing to test or quarantine for flight arrivals. For cruise ship arrivals, you must be fully vaccinated and show a negative PCR test taken no longer than 72 hours prior to your intended entry to the country.
Colombia will accept vaccines approved by the WHO, or those officially approved by a country or territory recognised by the United Nations. At least 14 days must have passed since your second dose of the vaccine to be considered fully vaccinated.
Proof of vaccination status
Colombia will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 recovery and vaccination record and proof of COVID-19 vaccination issued in the Crown Dependencies. Your final vaccine dose must have been administered at least 14 days prior to travel. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
If you’re not fully vaccinated or are unvaccinated
Foreign nationals who have started but not completed their vaccination scheme, have had their final dose less than 14 days before travel or are unvaccinated will be able to enter Colombia showing proof of a negative PCR or Antigen test issued no later than 72 hours prior to boarding.
Children and young people
Children aged 17 and under do not need to show proof of vaccination or negative PCR test to enter Colombia.
If you’re transiting through Colombia
Transiting through Colombia on your way to another country is permitted as long as you comply with all of the standard mandatory COVID-19 entry requirements.
For further information about transiting through Colombia please contact your airline or tour operator.
Exemptions
Local authorities have not set out any exemptions to the above stated standard COVID-19 entry requirements for Colombia.
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
Passport validity
If you are visiting Colombia, your passport should be valid for 6 months from the date you arrive.
Check with your travel provider to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Visas
British nationals can enter Colombia for up to 90 days as a visitor without a visa at the discretion of the Colombian Immigration Officer on arrival. You may need to provide evidence of return or onward travel. If you’re issued with a Colombian visa with more than 90 days’ validity, you must register the visa at a Migración Colombia office or online within 15 days of arrival in Colombia, or face fines. Check the latest entry requirements with the Colombian Consulate General in London before you travel.
You may be able to extend your stay once you are in Colombia by up to 120 days by applying at the immigration office Migración Colombia. As a visitor, you can’t remain in Colombia for more than 180 days in any 12 month period. Don’t overstay your visa, you will be fined or risk deportation at your own cost.
If you’re a British/Colombian dual national, you must enter and leave Colombia using your Colombian passport and Colombian identification card (Cedula).
If you enter Colombia by land, you should make sure your passport is stamped by the immigration authorities. Failure to do so may result in a fine on departure. If the immigration office on the border is closed, seek help at the nearest office of Migración Colombia.
Departure tax
An airport tax is charged for international departures. The cost is usually included in the price of the airline ticket, but you should check with your airline prior to your travel.
Customs regulations
You can carry up to US$10,000 in cash, or its equivalent in any currency, with you when you enter or leave Colombia. Anything in excess of this amount may be confiscated.
Travelling with children
Children under the age of 18 years who have resident status in Colombia and who are travelling on a British passport will need written permission when leaving the country without both parents. The non-accompanying parent(s) must write a letter giving permission for the child to leave Colombia. The letter must be authenticated by a notary or by a Colombian Consulate. It must mention the proposed destination, the purpose of the trip, the date of departure and the return date. You can get more information about Colombian emigration requirements from Migración Colombia or by contacting the Colombian Consulate in London.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website. Under International Health Regulations (2005), a yellow fever vaccination certificate is required for travellers aged 1 year or over arriving from Angola, Brazil, Democratic Republic of the Congo, and Uganda and for travellers having transited for more than 12 hours through an airport of a country with risk of yellow fever transmission.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are accepted for entry, airside transit and exit from Colombia. Your ETD should be valid for a minimum period of 6 months from the date of entry into Colombia. If you are a dual British/Colombian national you must have a valid Colombian travel document (passport) in order to be allowed to depart – a UK Emergency Travel Document cannot substitute this requirement.
San Andres Archipelago
If you’re travelling to the Islands of San Andres, Providencia or Santa Catalina you must purchase a tourist card from the airport you are travelling from, usually at the boarding gate, on the day of the flight. Tourists staying less than 24 hours on the islands, and children under 7 years, are exempt. Check with your airline to confirm the details prior to your travel.
