At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Coronavirus
Cases of the coronavirus (COVID-19) have been confirmed in Colombia. The Colombian government has declared a health emergency and introduced a number of measures to limit the spread of the virus.
Colombia’s land and sea borders are now closed, including the border with Ecuador. Airports remain open for the time being, though only Colombian nationals or foreigners with residence or work visas are allowed to enter Colombia. Those allowed entry would need to self-isolate for 14 days.
The FCO strongly encourages non-resident British nationals in Colombia to consider leaving to avoid difficulties they will face if flights out of the country and the region are further restricted and they are unable to get home.
All national or foreign citizens who intend to enter the country should complete the Preventive Control Against Coronavirus form. All gatherings of more than 500 people have been cancelled, and cruise ships are not being allowed to dock at Colombian ports.
Ecuador has closed its border to arrivals from Colombia though is currently allowing people to leave. You should monitor local authority statements on social media (@Migracioncol). The Colombian border with Venezuela is now closed.
You should comply with additional screening measures put in place by the authorities, which can include quarantine requirements for travellers considered a risk. These regulations are subject to change at short notice and you should check with your travel provider before your journey.
If you present symptoms upon arrival at an airport in Colombia, you should inform a representative of the Ministry of Health or Migracion Colombia present at the airport. If you present symptoms after having entered the country, you should contact your heath care provider or call the national healthline for coronavirus on 018000- 955590 or (57-1) 3305041 in Bogota (in Spanish). For further information, please check the Ministry of Health website and/or social media channels (@MinSaludCol).
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
Medical facilities in Colombia vary widely in quality. In large cities and state capitals, private clinics provide good quality care for routine treatments and complex treatment. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation. Not all travel health insurance policies provide cover for private or emergency medical care so check your policy before travelling. Public health facilities and those in smaller cities are generally ill equipped and poorly funded. Ambulance services in remote areas are unreliable and public hospitals often lack adequate medical supplies.
You can find most medication in pharmacies in large cities, but medicine for complex treatment may be unavailable in rural areas and small towns. You may need a prescription from a local doctor to get some controlled medicine.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, you should dial 123 to ask for assistance (in Spanish). Contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
UK health authorities have classified Colombia as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For more information and advice, visit the website of the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
Dengue fever, malaria and yellow fever are present throughout the country, although the coastal and southern states with lower altitudes are the most affected, especially during or shortly after the rainy season between April and November. You should take steps to avoid being bitten by mosquitoes.
Cases of Chikungunya virus have been confirmed in Colombia. You should take steps to avoid being bitten by mosquitoes.
Tap water is safe to drink only in Bogota. You should drink only bottled water and avoid ice in drinks.
