

Carry a colour photocopy of the data page and Colombian visa from your passport at all times for identification.
Homosexuality is legal but not widely accepted, especially in rural areas. See our information and advice page for the LGBT community before you travel.
Photographing of military or strategic government sites is not allowed.
It is a serious criminal offence to have sex with a minor.
Drugs
Don’t get involved with illegal drugs of any kind. Colombian drug trafficking detection methods are sophisticated and anyone attempting to traffic drugs should expect to be arrested. Conviction leads to severe penalties. British nationals have been arrested and detained for trying to smuggle cocaine out of the country. Prison conditions are harsh. Pack your own luggage and keep it with you at all times. Don’t carry items for other people.
Colombia has severe penalties for possession, use or trafficking of illegal drugs. Conviction leads to severe penalties.
Colombian drug trafficking detection methods are sophisticated and anyone attempting to traffic drugs should expect to be arrested.
Do not get involved with illegal drugs of any kind.
British nationals have been arrested and detained for trying to smuggle cocaine out of the country. Prison conditions are harsh.
Pack your own luggage and keep it with you at all times.
Lock your luggage to protect it from tampering and theft from carousels or hotel staff.
Do not carry any items for other people (packages, bags, suitcases, etc.)
Never exchange money for strangers, as this is a common practice among money launderers.
Incapacitating drugs
Criminals in Colombia may use drugs to subdue their victims. This usually includes the use of scopolamine, a drug that temporarily incapacitates the victim who become quickly disoriented and are vulnerable to robbery, sexual assault and other crimes. These drugs can cause serious medical problems, including loss of consciousness and memory loss.
They often work in teams, with women easing the victim into a false sense of security. They then steal the valuables once the victim has been incapacitated.
Robberies and assaults take place after victims accept spiked food, drinks, cigarettes or chewing gum. Thieves also administer these drugs by aerosol spray or paper handouts.
Dating applications and websites are also often used by criminals to identify and lure foreigners travelling alone and looking to meet local people to commit these crimes. Hotspots also include nightclubs, bars, restaurants, public transportation (including taxis) and city streets.
Avoid leaving food or drinks unattended and do not take anything from strangers.
Be wary of accepting snacks, beverages, gum, cigarettes or anything else from new acquaintances or someone in the street.
Avoid accepting invitations from or inviting strangers to their or your accomodation
Spiritual cleansing
Traditional hallucinogens , often referred to as Yagé/Ayahuasca are found in Colombia. These substances are often marketed to tourists as ‘spiritual cleansing’, and typically contain dimethyltryptamine (DMT), a strong hallucinogen that’s illegal in the UK and many other countries.
There are many risks involved. Consumption isn’t regulated. Intoxicated travellers have been assaulted and robbed. There have also been reports of sexual assault during these ceremonies.
Health risks are not well understood and on occasions people have suffered serious illnesses and in some cases deaths after taking these drugs, which are often taken a long way from medical facilities making the risks even greater. Some retreats have basic medical services, including first aid, but others don’t. Some don’t even have an established plan for how clients can access medical facilities in case of an emergency.
