

Earthquakes
Earthquakes occur regularly in Colombia. In the event of an earthquake, monitor local media reports and follow the advice of the local authorities. You can find a real-time earthquake map and further information about earthquakes in Colombia on the US Geological Survey website. To learn more about what to do before, during and after an earthquake, visit the US Federal Emergency Management Agency website.
Hurricanes/tropical storms
Although uncommon, hurricanes and tropical storms can affect the Caribbean coast and the Archipelago of San Andres, Providencia and Santa Catalina. You should monitor local and international weather updates from the World Meteorological Organisation, the US National Hurricane Centre, the National Unit for Disaster Risk Management (UNGRD) and the Institute of Hydrology, Meteorology and Environmental Studies (IDEAM). See our tropical cyclones page for advice about what to do if you are caught up in a storm.
Rainy season
There is a risk of floods and landslides after heavy rains throughout the Colombian Andes. Seek local advice before travelling on mountain roads after heavy rain.
Volcanoes
Volcano activity in Colombia is monitored by Colombia’s Geological Services (Servicio Geologico Colombiano, SGC). If you’re planning to visit areas of known volcanic activity, pay careful attention to all warnings and follow the advice of the local authorities.
Update April 2023 - The Nevado del Ruiz volcano is one of the 25 active and monitored volcanoes in Colombia.
There has been a warning issued by Colombia’s Geological Services (Servicio Geologico Colombiano, SGC) about the change in volcanic activity of Volcan Nevado del Ruiz.
Colombian authorities continue to monitor its activity.
The departments of Tolima, Caldas, Risaralda, Quindio, and Cudinamara might be affected.
If you are in the areas mentioned, you should be prepared to make travel arrangements or even follow evacuation plans at short notice. If you are planning to visit affected areas, you should avoid the area and consider altering travel plans.
Volcanic ash may impact flight availability and airport operations.
You should notify friends and family of your safety, remain vigilant and follow the advice of the local security authorities and/or your tour operator.
Monitor local media and seek information and advice from the local authorities before travelling on the Pan-American highway, which passes near the volcano. Call #767 for information (in Spanish) from the Colombian Highway Police about road closures.
To learn more about The Nevado del Ruiz volcano (in Spanish), visit Servicio Geologico Colombiano SGC. To check the latest daily bulletins about the volcano activity (in Spanish), visit Boletín extraordinario page on the SGC website.
This page will be updated as the situation develops.
