!
Warning
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to parts of Colombia.

This section has safety advice for regions of Colombia. It only covers regions where the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) has specific advice.  
You should also read FCDO’s overall travel advice and safety and security advice.  
Colombia-Venezuela border and northern Colombia 
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to: 
the Catatumbo region of Norte de Santander Department 
all of Arauca Department, except for the department capital, Arauca  
the municipality of Puerto Carreño in Vichada Department, except for the department capital, Puerto Carreño  
within 5km of the rest of the border with Venezuela, except for the city of Cúcuta 
FCDO currently advises against all travel to Venezuela’s border regions with Colombia. You should not use any of the Colombia-Venezuela land crossings. 
Pacific coast and Colombia-Panama border 
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to: 
Chocó Department, except for the department capital Quibdó, the whale-watching towns of Nuquí and Bahía Solano and the tourist site of Capurganá 
the western part of Valle del Cauca Department, including Buenaventura  
the western part of Cauca Department 
the South Pacific, Sanquianga and Telembi regions of Nariño Department 
the southern part of Córdoba Department 
the Urabá and Bajo Cauca regions of Antioquia Department 
the southern part of Bolívar Department 
The Pacific coast of Chocó is a popular eco-tourist destination. However, much of Chocó is remote. Illegal armed groups are active and involved in the drugs trade throughout the department and particularly near the border with Panama. If you intend to travel to the whale-watching towns of Bahia Solano and Nuqui, only do so by air and do not travel inland or along the coast out of town. 
Darien Gap 
The ‘Darien Gap’ is a dangerous area renowned for the presence of several illegal armed groups, illegal migration and drugs trafficking. There’s no road crossing between Colombia and Panama. Avoid crossing between Panama and Colombia by land. 
Colombia-Ecuador border and southern Colombia 
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to within 5km of the border with Ecuador except for: 
the border crossing on the Pan-American highway at the Puente Internacional de Rumichaca  
the city of Ipiales in Nariño Department 
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to Orito, San Miguel, Valle del Guamuez, Puerto Caicedo, Puerto Guzmán, Puerto Asis and Puerto Leguizamo in Putumayo Department. 
Central Colombia 
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to: 
all of Guaviare Department, except for the department capital San José de Guaviare 
Cartagena del Chairá, San Vicente del Caguan, Puerto Rico, El Doncello, Paujil and La Montañita in Caquetá Department 
the Ariari region of southern Meta, except for Caño Cristales 
If travelling to the tourist site of Caño Cristales, travel by air from the town of La Macarena with a reputable tour company.
Water rationing in Bogota
Bogota’s Mayor announced plans for water rationing across the city. The rationing plan may affect residential properties, businesses and access to water in different areas of Bogota every 10 days. More information can be found on the Bogota Mayor’s website (in Spanish). FCDO encourages British Nationals to review and follow the rationing pattern for neighbourhoods, towns, or any areas that you will visit. Fines may be imposed for irresponsible actions that lead to water waste. For example, washing cars, vehicles, motorcycles, bicycles.
Ciudad Perdida – ‘Lost City’ 
If you travel to the ‘Lost City’ in the Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta, only do so as part of an organised tour.
San Agustín Archaeological Park  
The San Agustín Archaeological Park (‘Parque Arqueológico de San Agustín’) is in the department of Huila. Enter and leave the park on the main road through Neiva or Popayán. 
