Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

UK special flights
From Friday 1 May, the UK will operate 2 special flights from Bogotá and Cartagena for British tourists, short term visitors and their direct dependants to return to the UK.
Friday 1 May: Bogotá – Honduras – London Heathrow
Monday 4 May: Bogotá – Cartagena – London Heathrow
the flight costs £800 per person.The price is the same whether you are starting from Bogota or Cartagena
to be eligible to take one of these flights, you must be normally resident in the UK. Your eligibility will be checked before your tickets are issued
If you’re a British national in Colombia, you are eligible for both the flight departing on 1 May and the flight departing on 4 May. You will not be able to choose the date of your flight. You will be allocated a seat on the first available flight, and in accordance with your current location. You will be told your flight date and time once your booking has been confirmed.
If you wish to travel, register to book tickets on the CTM website as soon as possible.
If you have difficulty booking online, send an SMS text message containing ONLY your full name to +44 7537 416 124 and someone from the CTM booking team will get in touch to assist you.
To book flights, you will need:
full passport and contact details of each traveller for whom you are registering
the means to pay the cost of the flight, and credit or debit card details
your UK home address and postcode
your full current address in Colombia
Your seat on a flight is not confirmed until you receive an email confirmation telling you so.
Tickets will not be on sale at the airport. Do not travel to the airport without a confirmed ticket.
If you are located outside the metropolitan areas of Bogota, Cartagena or Santa Marta, you must complete the online booking form no later than 8:30pm Colombia time on Monday 27 April, so the British embassy can make overland travel arrangements for you to get to the airport in time. If you miss this deadline, you may not get a seat on either flight.
If you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
You may find it helpful to read our guide to eligibility and the booking process for special charter flights.
Travel to the airport
To facilitate the departure of British nationals located outside of Bogota and Cartagena, the British embassy will run buses from Medellin, Pereira, Bucaramanga, Cali and Santa Marta, as well as transfers from smaller cities. The cost of these buses is included in your ticket.
When travel arrangements are confirmed, the British embassy will obtain the necessary transport permits from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Colombia. We will confirm these details with you separately once flight registration has closed. In the meantime if you have any questions, contact Bogota.Escalations@fco.gov.uk.
Masks are required to be worn where large numbers of people are being transported, such as on public transport, buses, coaches, as well as at the airport.
Your journey home
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Future travel options
The British embassy is in contact with airlines, the Colombian authorities and other governments to make sure commercial options for returning to the UK are available as soon as possible.
This travel advice will be updated when departure options become available. For additional updates see the British embassy Twitter page.
If you cannot leave Colombia at this time, you should:
email your details to Bogota.Escalations@fco.gov.uk, so we can alert you when options become available
follow the advice of local authorities, including local measures to help minimise your risk of exposure to coronavirus
find safe accommodation that is suitable for your needs
keep in regular contact with family and friends at home, so they know you are safe and well
See more information and advice about staying where you are if you cannot return to the UK.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British embassy. Please call +57 13268300, and select the consular option or email Bogota.Escalations@fco.gov.uk with your:
full name
location
description of your situation
If you have sent your contact details to the embassy we will notify you of any flights that become available. This page will be updated should any future commercial departure options become available. To get the latest information, sign up for travel advice email alerts.
For additional updates in English on potential travel options, see the British embassy Twitter page.
Further information
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
