!
Warning
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to parts of Colombia.

Terrorism  
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times. 
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad. 
Terrorism in Colombia 
Terrorists are very likely to try to carry out attacks in Colombia. 
Armed actors 
Despite the landmark peace agreement agreed between the government and the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC) in 2016, many armed groups remain active throughout the country. 
These groups may attack with little or no warning. The focus is predominantly in areas where there are active illicit economies and narco-trafficking and have historically targeted some tourist locations, including:  
transportation hubs including airports 
markets and shopping malls 
local government facilities 
hotels, clubs and restaurants 
places of worship 
parks and other public areas 
major sporting and cultural events 
educational institutions 
Police and military personnel and installations are frequently targeted.  
The principal intended target of these attacks is not usually foreign tourists. However, the pattern of these attacks means that incidents in public spaces and other areas visited by foreigners cannot be ruled out. Past methods of attack have included car bombs, grenade attacks and explosive devices left in buildings. You should always remain vigilant and follow the advice of the local security authorities should an incident occur. 
Kidnapping 
Kidnapping rates remain high and widespread in Colombia. Illegal armed groups kidnap hostages – both for ransom and for political purposes. While foreign nationals are not the primary target, there is an increasing trend in the number of foreigners being kidnapped in recent years, particularly those working for (or believed to be working for) oil, mining and related companies where armed groups operate. 
Express kidnappings – short-term opportunistic abductions, aimed at extracting cash from the victim – also happen (see section below on Crime – ATMs and Express Kidnappings).  
Regularly reassess your security arrangements and consider carefully any travel around the country.  
COP16 Biodiversity Conference 
The United Nations Biodiversity Conference, COP16, takes place in Cali from 21 October to 1 November. If you are attending COP16, check the COP16 website for attendance requirements, including information on accreditation and visas. 
All visitors to Cali during this time can expect an increased security presence and road closures. The likely high number of attendees will create pressure on availability of accommodation and transport. Visitors should prepare for this in advance of their visit to Cali.  
Pre-planned and authorised demonstrations are likely, including in the proximity of the conference areas.
Political situation  
Colombia has suffered from internal armed conflict for over 50 years. In 2016, Colombia’s then-President Juan Manuel Santos signed a peace agreement with the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC) movement to end the civil war.  
The peace agreement is still in place today, but Colombia remains seriously afflicted by conflict. Delays in the implementation of the peace agreement has led to a resurgence in violence in various parts of the country. Much of this is now between armed groups fighting for control of territory, the cocaine trade, and other illicit economies. 
Protests 
Protests and demonstrations can happen regularly throughout the country and often start at short notice. These events can turn violent and may lead to an increase in police and military presence. Road closures and roadblocks can cause travel disruptions for visitors.  
Avoid protests, strikes and demonstrations and follow the advice of local authorities or tour operators if you are affected. Allow extra time to reach your destination and monitor local media, including social media channels. 
There is a heightened risk of violence across the country when elections are held due to the interference of armed groups and criminal gangs in the electoral process. During national and state elections, avoid large gatherings or political rallies and remain vigilant around polling stations.   
Crime 
Drugs, organised crime and terrorism are inextricably linked in Colombia. There’s evidence of high levels of coca cultivation in: 
Nariño Department 
Cauca Department 
Putumayo Department 
Caquetá Department 
Meta Department 
Guaviare Department 
the Catatumbo region in Norte de Santander Department 
northern Antioquia Department 
southern Bolivar Department 
There’s a risk to your safety in any area where coca, marijuana or opium poppies are cultivated and near to cocaine processing labs. 
Illegal armed groups and criminal gangs are active in all of the departments where coca is cultivated, processed or transported, as well as in many cities. The risk is particularly significant in:  
rural areas near to the borders with Panama, Venezuela and Ecuador 
the Parque Nacional Natural de La Macarena in the Department of Meta 
the port towns of Buenaventura in the Department of Valle de Cauca, Turbo in the Department of Antioquia and Tumaco in the Department of Nariño 
Money laundering, extortion and prostitution rackets are all part of organised crime activity. 
Street crime 
Pickpocketing, mugging and armed robbery are a problem, especially in major cities, including Bogotá, Medellín, Cali and the Caribbean coast. British nationals have been robbed at gunpoint in the Candelaria area of Bogotá and across many cities in Colombia.
Be vigilant, particularly if you are in public places used by foreigners, or near official buildings. Avoid deprived areas of cities. Take care on city streets, especially after dark or if you are on your own. Do not carry large amounts of money or wear expensive jewellery.  
ATMs and Express Kidnappings
Use an ATM during business hours inside a bank, supermarket or large commercial building. Be aware before and after using an ATM on the street – robberies are common, especially at night. 
Victims of express kidnappings can be targeted or selected at random. They are held while criminals empty their bank accounts using their cash cards. Most cases in major cities involve victims that have been picked up by taxis hailed from the street. There have been incidents where those who have resisted the kidnappers’ demands have been killed. Dating applications are also increasingly being used as a vehicle for robbery, kidnappings and extortion.
Drug-induced robberies and sexual assaults 
The British Embassy has received reports of criminals in Colombia using drugs to subdue their victims. This includes the use of scopolamine, which temporarily incapacitates victims. Criminals can administer drugs through food, drinks, cigarettes, aerosols and even paper flyers. Victims become disoriented quickly and are vulnerable to robbery, sexual assault, rape and other crimes. 
Dating applications and websites are often used by criminals to identify and lure foreign nationals who are travelling alone and looking to meet local people. Criminals work in teams, with women easing the victim into a false sense of security. Victims are incapacitated and robbed. Incidents have been reported in nightclubs, bars, restaurants, public transportation (including taxis) and on city streets. Do not accept invitations from strangers to their accommodations, and do not invite strangers to your accommodation.  
Do not leave food or drinks unattended and do not take anything offered by strangers. These drugs can cause serious medical problems, including loss of consciousness, memory loss and can be fatal if administered in large quantities. Get local medical attention as soon as possible. 
Where possible, plan how you will travel to and from your destination. Only use pre-booked taxis.  
Public offences 
The law against the sexual abuse of children (aged 13 and under) is strictly enforced, especially when it involves tourists. If convicted you could face a long prison sentence.  
The 141 national toll-free line and the Child and Adolescent Police are available for 24-hour protection, emergencies and orientation of children and young people. 
Bogus police scams 
Bogus police are known to operate in Bogotá and elsewhere. They may ask to inspect money to see if it is counterfeit. If approached, ask them to escort you to the nearest local police station (CAI or ‘Centro de Atención Inmediata’).  
Rural areas 
In many rural areas, the authority of the Colombian state is limited, and the British Embassy’s ability to help British nationals in trouble in these areas will also be limited. Mobile and internet connection in rural areas is often limited. 
Laws and cultural differences  
Personal ID 
Carry a colour printout of the photo page and Colombian visa from your passport at all times for identification. 
Alcohol  
It is illegal to consume alcohol in public spaces. 
Illegal drugs  
Do not get involved with illegal drugs of any kind. Colombian drug trafficking detection methods are sophisticated and anyone attempting to traffic drugs can expect to be arrested. British nationals have been arrested and detained for trying to smuggle cocaine out of the country. Prison conditions are harsh. Pack your own luggage and keep it with you at all times. Lock your cases to protect them from tampering. Never carry items for other people. Never exchange money for strangers, as this is a common practice among money launderers. 
Colombia has severe penalties for possession, use or trafficking of illegal drugs. 
Spiritual cleansing 
Traditional hallucinogenic tea, known as Yagé or Ayahuasca, is brewed and marketed to tourists as spiritual cleansing. The various preparations typically contain dimethyltryptamine (DMT), a strong hallucinogen that’s illegal in the UK and many other countries. 
There are many risks involved. Consumption is not regulated. Intoxicated travellers have been assaulted and robbed. There have also been reports of sexual assaults during these ceremonies. 
Health risks are not well understood and on occasions people have suffered serious illnesses and in some cases death after taking these drugs. The jungle retreats are often a long way from medical facilities making the risks even greater. Some have basic medical services, but others do not. Some do not have an established plan for how you can access medical facilities in case of an emergency. 
Using cameras in secure areas 
Photographing of military or strategic government sites is illegal. 
LGBT+ travellers 
Same-sex sexual relationships are legal but not widely accepted, especially in rural areas. 
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers. 
Money 
US dollars and euros are easy to exchange, but only use recognised banks and money exchanges. Do not change money on the street. 
Credit and debit cards are widely accepted in hotels, shops and restaurants. Keep the receipts in case you need to show customs what money you have spent when you leave. 
Transport risks  
Road travel 
If you are planning to drive a hire car or a UK vehicle, see information on driving abroad. 
You can use a UK photocard driving licence to drive in Colombia. If you still have a paper driving licence, you may need to update it to a photocard licence or get the correct version of the international driving permit (IDP) as well.  
Hire car companies often have stricter requirements for their customers, such as: 
a year of driving experience 
being aged 18 years and over   
holding an IDP 
a citizenship card or passport 
a credit card to guarantee the vehicle hire 
Carry all vehicle documents in physical form, in case you are pulled over by local authorities. 
Driving standards 
Driving standards are poor and traffic accidents are common. Avoid driving at night, which can be particularly hazardous. Do not hitch-hike. The risk of violence and kidnapping is higher in some rural areas, and there is a risk of being caught in roadblocks set up by illegal armed groups. Main roads are generally safe during daylight hours. 
Public transport  
Be cautious when using public transport in Colombia.  
There have been several recent incidents of armed robbery on buses. Avoid displaying valuable items like laptops, cameras and mobile phones. Do not wear jewellery and only carry minimal amounts of cash. Avoid travelling on your own or at night, especially at border crossings or areas where there are few other people around. When travelling to remote areas, it may be safer to travel with others or take part in a tour with a reputable company. 
Taxis 
There have been reports of express kidnappings, assaults and robberies in unlicensed taxis. Use licensed telephone or internet-based taxi services whenever possible or book through your hotel. Many restaurants in Colombia will book a taxi for you. Do not hail taxis on the street. 
El Dorado International Airport in Bogotá only allows authorised taxis to pick up passengers at its terminals. Authorised taxis are yellow with white licence plates and plate numbers on doors and roof. The driver’s information will be shown inside the vehicle. Well-known taxi companies can be booked via Uber and Cabify. Authorised taxi booths are present in El Dorado and most airports in Colombia. 
Landmines 
There is a risk from landmines throughout Colombia, especially in rural and remote areas. Mined areas are often unmarked. Be vigilant when visiting remote areas or travelling off the main roads. 
Air travel 
The departmental capitals of Amazonas, Vaupes and Guainía are only accessible by air due to the lack of road infrastructure in these departments. 
Extreme weather and natural disasters 
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards.
Hurricanes  
Although uncommon, hurricanes and tropical storms can affect the Caribbean coast and the Archipelago of San Andres, Providencia and Santa Catalina. 
Monitor local news and check World Meteorological Organization weather reports for Colombia, the US National Hurricane Center, the National Unit for Disaster Risk Management (UNGRD) and the Institute of Hydrology, Meteorology and Environmental Studies (IDEAM). 
Earthquakes 
There is a high risk of earthquakes across Colombia. Earthquakes occur regularly, particularly in Santander Department and the Andean Region.  
Familiarise yourself with safety procedures and any instructions in your hotel or accommodation. 
If an earthquake happens, monitor local media reports, follow instructions from the authorities and keep essential belongings, such as your passport and money, with you.  
Get real-time information (in Spanish) following an earthquake from the: 
National Unit for Disaster Risk Management (UNGRD) 
Colombia’s Geological Services 
You can find a real-time earthquake map and further information about earthquakes in Colombia on the Colombia’s Geological Services. 
The US Federal Emergency Management Agency website has advice about what to do before, during and after an earthquake.  
Flooding  
There is a risk of floods and landslides after heavy rains throughout Colombia, especially in the Colombian Andes. Get local advice before travelling on mountain roads after heavy rain. 
Volcanic eruptions 
There are 25 active and monitored volcanoes in Colombia. Check the latest daily bulletins about volcanic activity (in Spanish).
If you are in areas of volcanic activity, be prepared to make travel arrangements or even follow evacuation plans at short notice. If you are planning to visit affected areas, avoid the area and consider altering travel plans. 
Notify friends and family of your safety, remain vigilant and follow the advice of the local security authorities or your tour operator. 
Monitor local media and get information and advice from the local authorities before travelling on the Pan-American highway, which passes near a volcano. Call 767 for information (in Spanish) from the Colombian Highway Police about road closures. 
If you’re planning to visit areas of known volcanic activity, pay careful attention to all warnings and follow the advice of the local authorities. 
