This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Colombia as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Colombia to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Colombia
President Duque announced a State of Emergency on 18 March.
Nationwide isolation measures are in effect until 1 August. These measures restrict social contact and movement to essential activities only. This also applies to the use of private vehicles.
During this period, one individual per household may leave his or her home or accommodation to:
Buy essential goods such as food, beverages, medicines, medical devices, sanitary and cleaning products
Walk a pet for 20 minutes in the vicinity of one’s residence
Access emergency services, including veterinarians
Attend a necessary medical appointment
Visit an ATM or bank to access financial services or to visit a notary
Take a licensed taxi or public bus when necessary to leave the house for one of these approved reasons.
Individual sports activity and outdoor exercise can be authorised by local administrations under certain conditions and time restrictions and are dependent on age categories of 2-5 years, 6-17 years, 18-69 years and over 70 years. Regulations vary between regions, but social distancing rules continue to apply. Check with your local authority for more information on the specific restrictions in your area.
There are further non-essential exemptions to the lockdown, including visiting museums and libraries and accessing hairdressers and barbers. The timetable for this may differ regionally. Check with your local authority for more information on the specific restrictions in your area.
Consumption of alcoholic beverages is prohibited in open spaces and commercial establishments.
The use of masks is mandatory when using public transport and in areas with a high concentration of people. Cloth masks are acceptable. Those with respiratory symptoms and at risk groups (including those with pre-existing health conditions and adults over the age of 70) must always use masks in public. Certain regional authorities (e.g. in Bogota) require masks to be worn at all times when outside. Check with your local authority for more information on the specific restrictions in your area.
Regional measures
Regional authorities are implementing significant further measures, including restrictions based on gender and/or identification numbers, curfews, as well as not permitting certain exemptions to the lockdown, including outdoor exercise. This includes Bogota, which is operating a system of enhanced restrictive measures by area. You should check official guidance from the relevant local authority, local news and the British Embassy Twitter page (updates in English).
Some municipalities without confirmed coronavirus cases will be allowed to ease their lockdowns. Please check with your local authority for restrictions in your area.
Travel to the airport
Permits from the local authorities to travel to the airport are no longer required. Your booking confirmation will suffice.
Visas
The Colombian government has issued a decree stating that visas that expire during the emergency will be automatically renewed for the length of the lockdown period plus one month. This means that if your tourist visa expired during the period of 25 March to 1 August, you will need to renew your visa, request an extension, or depart from Colombia before 3 August. There will be no penalty for not renewing your visa if it expired during these dates. For more information, visit the Migración Colombia website.
Health
If you present symptoms in Colombia, you should contact your health care provider or call the national health line for coronavirus in your area.
For contact details for English speaking doctors, visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Colombia.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Colombia, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
For further information, you can check the Ministry of Health website or follow their social media channels.
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
