The Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) advise against all but essential travel to:
the whole of Colombia based on the current assessment of COVID-19 risks
In addition and for security reasons the FCDO advise against all but essential travel to:
the departments of Arauca and Guaviare (except their capital cities)
the department of Chocó (except its capital Quibdó, the whale-watching towns of Nuquí and Bahía Solano, and the tourist site of Capurganá)
the Ariari region of southern Meta (except the tourist site of Caño Cristales - if travelling to Caño Cristales, travel by air to and from the town of La Macarena with a reputable tour company)
the South Pacific, Sanquianga and Telembi regions of Nariño
the Western region of Cauca
Buenaventura in the department of Valle del Cauca
the Urabá and Bajo Cauca regions of Antioquia
the region of Southern-Bolívar
the region of Southern-Córdoba
the Catatumbo region of Norte de Santander
Orito, San Migue, Valle del Guamuez, Puerto Caicedo, Puerto Guzmán, Puerto Asis and Puerto Leguizamo in Putumayo
Cartagena del Chairá, San Vicente del Caguan, Puerto Rico, El Doncello, Paujil and La Montañita in Caquetá
the municipality of Puerto Carreño in Vichada, except the departmental capital
within 5km of the Venezuelan border and within 5km of the Ecuadorian border, except for the border crossing on the Pan-American highway, at Ipiales.
From 4am on 15 January, visitors who have been in or transited through Colombia in the previous 10 days cannot enter the UK. British and Irish nationals, and third country nationals with residence rights in the UK arriving in the UK from Colombia will need to self-isolate with their households on their return. Check the latest guidance for England, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales.
From 1 January onwards people with residence rights include: holders of Indefinite Leave to Remain; holders of existing leave to enter or remain (i.e those with biometric Residence permits) or an entry clearance/visa that grants such leave e.g. students, workers, etc (excluding visit visas); holders of EU Settlement Scheme (“EUSS”) leave; those who have rights of entry under the Withdrawal Agreements (including returning residents with a right of residence under the EEA Regulations and EEA frontier workers); family members of EEA nationals with rights under the Withdrawal Agreement.
Following the announcement on 20 December by the Colombian Government to restrict flights to and from the UK you cannot enter Colombia if your journey started in the UK, but there are some exceptions to this (see Entry requirements). Direct flights to and from London have been suspended until further notice.
Travel is subject to entry restrictions
Arrivals to Colombia are subject to mandatory entry requirements:
For air travel into Colombia, a negative PCR test issued within 96 hours prior to boarding will be required for all passengers (children included)
Travellers without a negative PCR test will need to fill out a written form explaining why they were unable to get a test or the results in time prior to being allowed to board by the airline. Passengers will be required to take the test upon arrival and to self-isolate either for 14 days or until a negative test result is received
Between 24 hours and 1 hour before departure, you must fill out the ‘Check-Mig’ form, available on the Migración Colombia website. You will receive a confirmation email that you will need to present upon arrival in Colombia. You will need to also complete this form 24 hours before your departure from Colombia.
You must not present a fever or respiratory symptoms associated with Covid-19 prior to boarding the aircraft.
The use of a mask is mandatory for everyone over two years of age throughout the flight. You must bring spare facemasks and follow the airline’s instructions on how regularly to change them during the flight.
You should stay in your assigned seat during the entire flight.
If you develop any Covid-19 symptoms within 14 days of arriving in Colombia, you must inform the health secretary in the area you are staying, as well as the airline(s) you travelled on. *Land and river borders will remain closed until 16 January.
See Entry requirements before you plan travel.
Preparing for your return journey to the UK
If you’re returning to the UK from overseas, you will need to:
provide your journey and contact details before you travel
check if you need to self-isolate on your return
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
If you’re travelling to Colombia during coronavirus, see the Coronavirus page for more information.
During the COVID-19 pandemic it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check your cover. See the FCDO’s guidance on foreign travel insurance.
There have been large scale protests in recent months which could recur at any time. These demonstrations can be confrontational and may turn violent. A number of people have been killed and injured. You should remain vigilant, avoid all demonstrations, and monitor local media for the latest information.
Terrorists are very likely to try to carry out attacks in Colombia. The security situation can change very quickly in many areas of the country. You should pay close attention to warnings issued by the Colombian authorities. See Terrorism
Despite high levels of crime, most visits to Colombia are trouble-free. See Crime
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission. Consular support is limited in parts of Colombia where we advise against all but essential travel and areas where there is a limited state presence. When consular support is unavailable, the British Embassy will liaise with local authorities to request assistance.
If you need to contact the emergency services, call 123 (in Spanish).
UK health authorities have classified Colombia as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For more information and advice, visit the website of the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
The Overseas Business Risk service offers information and advice for British companies operating overseas on how to manage political, economic, and business security-related risks.
