

Terrorists are very likely to try to carry out attacks in Colombia.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Armed Actors
The threat comes from the National Liberation Army (ELN), dissidents from the demobilised FARC guerrilla group (Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia), and other illegal armed groups.
The National Liberation Army (ELN) terrorist organisation continues plotting possible attacks in Colombia. On 17 January 2019, the ELN conducted a vehicle-bomb attack on a police academy in Bogota, killing 23 people.
The FARC handed its weapons in, as part of Colombia’s 2016 peace deal, on 27 June 2017, marking the end of their status as an armed group. However, dissident groups of the FARC still exist, including one led by prominent ex-commander Ivan Marquez thought to be operating from inside Venezuela.
These groups may attack with little or no warning, targeting tourist locations, transportation hubs, markets/shopping malls, local government facilities, hotels, clubs, restaurants, places of worship, parks, major sporting and cultural events, educational institutions, airports, and other public areas. Police and military personnel and installations, are frequently targeted.
The principal intended target of these attacks is not usually foreign tourists. However, the pattern of these attacks means that incidents in public spaces and other areas visited by foreigners can’t be ruled out. Past methods of attack have included car bombs, grenade attacks and explosive devices left in buildings. You should always remain vigilant and follow the advice of the local security authorities should an incident occur.
In many areas of Colombia, the security situation can change very quickly. You should pay close attention to warnings issued by the Colombian authorities and monitor this travel advice. You should be particularly cautious and vigilant during any major events.
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. You should remain vigilant at all times.
Kidnapping
There is a high risk of kidnap from both terrorist and criminal groups. While Colombians are the primary targets, foreigners can also be targeted, especially those working for (or believed to be working for) oil, mining and related companies.
You should regularly reassess your security arrangements and consider carefully any travel around the country.
The long-standing policy of the British government is not to make substantive concessions to hostage takers. The British government considers that paying ransoms and releasing prisoners increases the risk of further hostage taking.
