!
Warning
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to parts of Colombia.

Your travel insurance could be invalidated if you travel against advice from the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO). 
Areas where FCDO advises against all but essential travel  
Colombia-Venezuela border and northern Colombia 
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to: 
all of Norte de Santander Department, including Cúcuta.
all of Arauca Department, except for the department capital, Arauca  
the municipality of Puerto Carreño in Vichada Department, except for the department capital, Puerto Carreño 
within 5km of the rest of the border with Venezuela.
FCDO currently advises against all travel to Venezuela’s border regions with Colombia. You should not use any of the Colombia-Venezuela land crossings. 
Pacific coast and Colombia-Panama border
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to: 
Chocó Department, except for the department capital Quibdó, the whale-watching towns of Nuquí and Bahía Solano and the tourist site of Capurganá 
the western part of Valle del Cauca Department, including Buenaventura  
the western part of Cauca Department
the South Pacific, Sanquianga and Telembi regions of Nariño Department
the southern part of Córdoba Department
the Urabá and Bajo Cauca regions of Antioquia Department
the southern part of Bolívar Department
Central Colombia 
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to: 
all of Guaviare Department, except for the department capital San José del Guaviare 
Cartagena del Chairá, San Vicente del Caguan, Puerto Rico, El Doncello, Paujil and La Montañita in Caquetá Department 
the Ariari region of southern Meta, except for Caño Cristales 
If travelling to the tourist site of Caño Cristales, travel by air from the town of La Macarena with a reputable tour company. 
Colombia-Ecuador border and southern Colombia 
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to within 5km of the border with Ecuador except for: 
the border crossing on the Pan-American highway at the Puente Internacional de Rumichaca  
the city of Ipiales in Nariño Department 
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to Orito, San Miguel, Valle del Guamuez, Puerto Caicedo, Puerto Guzmán, Puerto Asis and Puerto Leguizamo in Putumayo Department. 
Find out more about why FCDO advises against travel.
Explosive devices detonated around Cauca and Valle de Cauca departments, including in the city of Cali
On 10 June, several explosive devices were detonated in and around Cauca and Valle de Cauca departments, including the city of Cali. Local authorities are investigating. Road closures and obstructions should be expected. Monitor media and follow advice from local authorities. See safety and security.
Before you travel 
No travel can be guaranteed safe. Read all the advice in this guide. You may also find it helpful to: 
see general advice for women travellers
read our guide on disability and travel abroad
see general advice for LGBT+ travellers
read about safety for solo and independent travel
see advice on volunteering and adventure travel abroad
Travel insurance 
If you choose to travel, research your destinations and get appropriate travel insurance. Insurance should cover your itinerary, planned activities and expenses in an emergency. 
About FCDO travel advice 
FCDO provides advice about risks of travel to help you make informed decisions. Find out more about FCDO travel advice.  
Get travel advice updates 
Sign up to get email notifications when this travel advice is updated.  
Follow FCDO:    
travel advice on X 
travel advice on Facebook 
Travel Aware on Instagram
