Coronavirus guidance is being updated.
Read the Prime Minister’s address for the latest information.

Czech Republic has put measures in place to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
For information on how to return to the UK from Czech Republic, see Return to the UK
The Czech Government has declared a State of Emergency, which is currently in place until 17 May. Under the State of Emergency, the Czech government has introduced measures to control the spread of the virus, including:
Restrictions on entry
You can enter the Czech Republic as long as you have either temporary or permanent residency. You will need to provide evidence of residency (ideally your residence card but there are other ways of demonstrating residency, see the Ministry of Interior’s website for further details).
As well as proof of residency, you will be required to either show that you have tested negative for Covid-19 within the last four days of your arrival (presenting your test at the point of entry into the Czech Republic) or you will need to self-isolate for a period of 14 days. You will be exempt from the self-isolation requirements if you test negative for Covid-19 within 72 hours of arrival in the Czech Republic. Even if you have a negative test result and are not required to self isolate, you will still be subject to a free movement limitation for 14 days, which means you should restrict your travel to journeys necessary for work, buying essential supplies or visiting the doctor.
You will need to show your residency card when boarding flights or an international coach or when crossing a land border into the Czech Republic. Family reunification is possible, but subject to restrictions. Up to date guidance, including the certificate template with which to present your test results at the border, can be found on the website of the Czech Ministry of Interior.
In line with requirements from the Czech authorities, as a British resident of the Czech Republic you will need to notify the Czech authorities of your intention to travel before entering the country. Please see guidance on the Czech Embassy in the UK’s website for more information.
You may also be able to enter the Czech Republic if you don’t have residency for certain purposes of travel, including business and study at university. Details outlining valid reasons for entry, along with information on the documents you will need to present and the restrictions you will need to follow are available on the website of the Czech Ministry of the Interior (See the first bullet point in section two ‘Conditions for entry to the territory of the Czech Republic and quarantine measures (from May 1st, 2020)’).
Transit through the Czech Republic from a third country
UK nationals can transit from a third country through the Czech Republic without Czech residency if they have a letter of confirmation from the British Embassy and can demonstrate their purpose is to travel straight back to the UK. Alongside an official letter from the Embassy, those intending to transit the Czech Republic must provide evidence of onward travel and meet the requirements set out below to cover their mouth and nose.
If you would like to transit through the Czech Republic from another country in order to return to the UK, contact the British Embassy in Prague on +420 257 40 2111 (choosing option 1 for English, then option 4 for consular assistance) at least 24 hours before making your journey, to request a letter of confirmation to allow you to transit the Czech Republic. You will need to provide:
Full name, date of birth, and passport/ID number for each individual making the journey
Intended route, including date, time (approximate) and location of entry to, and exit from, the Czech Republic
Number plate of any vehicle to be used to cross the border
Flight details for those seeking a flight connection, or intended route for those seeking to drive across the Czech Republic
You should also contact your travel provider to confirm your journey can go ahead.
Further information is available on Ministry of Interior’s website.
Transport restrictions
From Saturday 14 March, emergency measures restricting international transport entered into effect. The Czech Government Office website (in English) has further information.
There are limited options for returning to the UK from the Czech Republic; for more information, see Return to the UK
Restrictions on freedom of movement and social distancing measures
From 27 April, there are no restrictions on movement within the Czech Republic.
From 18 March, anyone leaving their homes must have their mouth and nose covered. This should be done using a face mask if available, although scarves are allowed if a face mask cannot be obtained. Individual outdoor sport activities may be undertaken without a face mask, as well as eating and drinking, but you must keep a distance of two metres from other people.
Restaurants, bars and pubs are closed, but can sell food to take away. From April 27, shops, excluding those in large shopping centres, are permitted to reopen.
From 10 March, schools and universities have been ordered to close, although since 20 April some schools and universities have reopened to specific year groups. Kindergartens remain open in some areas. UK nationals in need of specific information on education are advised to contact their local Czech authority. School re-opening depends on current infection rates.
On the 14 April, the Czech Government announced plans for a phased re-opening of businesses and services from 20 April, dependent on infection rates. For further information, follow local media and the British Embassy in Prague’s twitter page.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
You can find more information about cases in the Czech Republic on the TravelHealthPro country page.
Further advice and information is available from the Czech Ministry of Interior, on the main English language site of the Government of the Czech Republic.
