This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Czech Republic set and enforce entry rules. For further information contact their embassy, high commission or consulate. You may also check with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and travel documents meet their requirements.
Entry rules in response to coronavirus (COVID-19)
People who have been fully vaccinated or have recovered from COVID-19
If you have been fully vaccinated under the UK government’s vaccination programme at least 14 days prior to travel, or if you have a certificate of recovery from COVID-19 valid for the entire length of your stay, you are able to enter the Czech Republic for any reason, including tourism. If you have had two doses but no booster, your vaccine certificate will expire after 270 days. If you have had a booster dose, your certificate has no expiry date.
If you have a COVID recovery certificate issued by a third country, it is valid from 11 days after your positive test date, and lasts for a period of 180 days.
All travellers entering the Czech Republic are required to fill in a Passenger Locator Form and present it upon arrival. You should consult your airline operator before travelling.
Children below the age of 12 travelling with their legal guardian may enter the country without a pre-departure test or a Passenger Locator Form. Children under 12 do not need to self-isolate if the parent or legal guardian they are travelling with is fully vaccinated or has a recovery certificate.
Children aged 12-18 are allowed to enter the Czech Republic if they are travelling with their parent or legal guardian. They will need to have proof of vaccination or recovery from COVID-19 or to take a pre-departure PCR test. They will also need to complete a Passenger Locator Form. Vaccination certificates for children aged 12-18 have no expiry date.
Demonstrating your COVID-19 status
The Czech Republic will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 vaccination record and proof of COVID-19 vaccination issued in the Crown Dependencies. Your final vaccine dose must have been administered more than 14 days prior to travel. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
People who have not been fully vaccinated or previously had COVID-19
If you have not been fully vaccinated or previously had Covid-19, you are only allowed to enter the Czech Republic for essential reasons, such as for medical treatment or to attend a funeral, or if you hold a residency permit issued by the Czech Republic, or a permanent or long term residency permit issued by an EU+ country (EU plus Andorra, Iceland, Liechtenstein, Monaco, Norway, San Marino, Switzerland and Vatican City).
If you are the spouse or long-term partner of a Czech or EU national, you may be able to enter the Czech Republic under certain conditions. More information can be found on the website of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. UK nationals resident in the Czech Republic who applied for a residence permit before 31 December 2020 but haven’t received the Certificate of Residence yet can request a “confirmation for entry” from the website of the Czech Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
On arrival in the Czech Republic, you must undertake a further PCR test between 5-7 days after arrival and wear a FFP2 standard facemask or higher (available in Czech pharmacies and known in Czech as a “respirátor”) when you are outside your accommodation until you receive a negative test result, unless you are exempt (see below). You are also required to fill in a Passenger Locator Form and present it upon arrival. You should consult your airline operator before travelling.
You are allowed to transit the Czech Republic, but you need to present a negative PCR test result upon entry, taken no more than 72 hours before departure.
Details on regulations in place for travellers, permitted reasons for entry, and more information on entry requirements, exemptions from testing and self-isolation after arrival for certain categories of people and local restrictions can be found on the website of the Czech Ministry of Interior.
More information on how to get tested can be found on the website of the Czech Government Portal. The list of testing centres is available on this link (in Czech only).
If you are legally permitted to travel, check our advice for the country you are visiting and each country that you would transit.
You should not use the NHS testing service to get a test in order to facilitate your travel to another country. You should arrange to take a private test.
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
The information on this part of the page covers the most common types of travel and reflects the UK government’s understanding of the rules currently in place. Unless otherwise stated, this information is for travellers using a full ‘British Citizen’ passport.
The authorities in the country or territory you’re travelling to are responsible for setting and enforcing the rules for entry. If you’re unclear about any aspect of the entry requirements, or you need further reassurance, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
All UK visitors who don’t have a residence permit in the Czech Republic are required to register the address of their accommodation with the nearest Foreign Police Department, or through their hotel or other accommodation service, within the first 3 days after arrival. If you have not been registered through your hotel or accommodation service, registration must be done in person. Failure to comply could result in a fine of up to 3000 CZK. See details of Czech Foreign Police offices.
You should also consider checking with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Passport validity
If you are planning to travel to an EU country (except Ireland), or Switzerland, Norway, Iceland, Liechtenstein, Andorra, Monaco, San Marino or Vatican City, you must meet the Schengen area rules.
Your passport must meet 2 requirements. It must be:
less than 10 years old on the day you enter (check the ‘date of issue’)
valid for at least 3 months after the day you plan to leave (check the ‘expiry date’)
We are asking the European Commission to clarify the 10-year rule. Their guidance for Schengen border guards may not be updated until the spring of 2022. Until then, for some Schengen countries your passport may need to be less than 10 years old during your whole visit, and the 3 months at the end of your visit may need to be within 10 years of your passport’s issue date.
Check both the issue date and the expiry date in your passport. If you renewed your passport early, extra months may have been added to its expiry date. This could affect the requirement for your passport to be less than 10 years old.
Contact your travel provider or embassy of the country you are visiting if you think that your passport does not meet both these requirements. Renew your passport if you need to.
Visas
You can travel to countries in the Schengen area for up to 90 days in any 180-day period without a visa. This applies if you travel as a tourist, to visit family or friends, to attend business meetings, cultural or sports events, or for short-term studies or training.
If you are travelling to the Czech Republic and other Schengen countries without a visa, make sure your whole visit is within the 90-day limit. Visits to Schengen countries within the previous 180 days before you travel count towards your 90 days.
To stay longer, to work or study, for business or for other reasons, you will need to meet the Czech government’s entry requirements. Check with the Embassy of the Czech Republic what type of visa and/or work permit you may need.
If you are travelling to the Czech Republic for work, read the guidance on visas and permits.
If you stay in Czech Republic with a residence permit or long-stay visa, this does not count towards your 90-day visa-free limit.
Passport stamping
Check your passport is stamped if you enter or exit the Schengen area through the Czech Republic as a visitor. Border guards will use passport stamps to check you’re complying with the 90-day visa-free limit for short stays in the Schengen area. If relevant entry or exit stamps are not in your passport, border guards will presume that you have overstayed your visa-free limit.
You can show evidence of when and where you entered or exited the Schengen area, and ask the border guards to add this date and location in your passport. Examples of acceptable evidence include boarding passes and tickets.
You may also need to:
show a return or onward ticket
show you have enough money for your stay
If you are resident in the Czech Republic, read our Living in the Czech Republic guide for passport stamping information.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are accepted for entry, airside transit and exit from the Czech Republic.
Returning to the UK
Check what you must do to return to the UK.
