At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Coronavirus
The Czech authorities have put in place a series of measures in response to the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic.
On 12 March, the Czech government declared a 30-day State of Emergency in response. Following the measures taken by the Czech Government under the State of Emergency, disruption to transport services is anticipated.
Transport restrictions
From 0001 on Saturday 14 March, emergency measures restricting international transport entered into effect. The Czech Government Office website (in English) has further information.
International air travel is now limited to Prague airport, which remains open, but flights are bring cancelled. . If you’re currently in the Czech Republic and want to leave the country, you should travel as soon as possible to ensure departure. Please check with your carrier before travelling to Prague airport to see if your flight is affected.
From 0001 on Saturday 14 March, cross-border bus, train and ferry services are suspended. From 0001 on Monday 16 March, Czech nationals will be prevented from leaving the country by car. UK and other foreign nationals will still be allowed to travel out of the Czech Republic by car after that time but will not be allowed to re-enter.
Road travel into Germany and Austria is currently restricted to 11 designated border crossings. Countries neighbouring the Czech Republic, including Slovakia, Germany, Austria and Poland, are also affected by restrictions. Please check country-specific FCO Travel Advice for details.
Self-isolation requirements
The Czech government has confirmed that anyone who enters the Czech Republic from the UK (and other designated ‘at risk’ countries) will be required to self-isolate with effect from 1pm (GMT) on 13 March.
Restrictions on travel over the weekend of 14-15 March
From 12.01am on Saturday 14 March to the end of Sunday 15 March, travel to and from the Czech Republic from a list of 15 ‘at risk’ countries, including the UK, will not be permitted.
Foreign tourists will not be allowed to enter the Czech Republic, but will be able to travel home if they are already in the Czech Republic. However, there are exemptions to this rule, including UK nationals with permanent or temporary residency in the Czech Republic, who will be permitted to enter the Czech Republic. They will also be able to leave, but will not be able to re-enter during the state of emergency.
There are other exceptions, for example for cross-border workers and members of certain professions; check with Czech authorities for detailed advice.
Restrictions on travel from 16 March
On 13 March, new measures were announced on travel to and from the Czech Republic. From 12.01am on Monday 16 March, Czech citizens and those with permanent or temporary residency in the Czech Republic can return to the Czech Republic from abroad.
The Czech government has said that no Czech citizen can leave the Czech Republic during the state of emergency. UK nationals with permanent or temporary residency in the Czech Republic are permitted to leave, but will not be able to re-enter the Czech Republic during the state of emergency.
The government has confirmed that foreign tourists already in the Czech Republic will be able to return home.
Local measures
The Czech government has put in place other measures alongside the restrictions on travel. Events with more than 30 people are prohibited. This is in addition to measures announced on the 10 March, which included the closure of schools and universities. Kindergartens remain open in most areas, but there are exceptions, such as in Prague 6, where local authorities have announced closures. UK nationals in need of specific information on education are advised to contact their local Czech authorities.
From 0600 on Saturday 14 March, all shops will be closed for 10 days, with the exception of supermarkets, pharmacies, opticians, newsagents, shops selling electronics, petrol stations and e-shops with home delivery. Restaurants, bars and pubs are closed, but can sell food to take away. Canteens in workplaces are exempted and can continue to operate.
Further information
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
You can find more information about cases in the Czech Republic on the TravelHealthPro country page.
Further advice and information is available from the Czech Ministry of Interior, on the main English language site of the Government of the Czech Republic, from the Czech Ministry of the Interior, and from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. There is further information on prevention measures and travel information from the Czech government.
Healthcare
The rules on access to healthcare will stay the same until 31 December 2020.
You should get a free European Health Insurance Card (EHIC) before leaving the UK. After 31 December 2020, your UK-issued EHIC might not be valid.
The EHIC entitles you to state provided medical treatment that may become necessary during your trip. Any treatment provided is on the same terms as Czech nationals. If you don’t have your EHIC with you or you’ve lost it, you can call the Department of Health Overseas Healthcare Team (+44 191 218 1999) to get a Provisional Replacement Certificate.
It is important to take out comprehensive travel insurance that includes cover for emergency medical treatment and associated costs. The existing EHIC arrangements are not an alternative to travel insurance, as some health-related costs, including for medical repatriation, ongoing medical treatment and non-urgent treatment, are not covered. Read more about what your travel insurance should cover.
If you’re living in the Czech Republic, you can also find more information on healthcare for residents in our Living In the Czech Republic guide.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 112 and ask for an ambulance. If you are referred to a medical facility for treatment you should contact your insurance/medical assistance company immediately.
