You should carry your passport with you at all times for identification. The police may fine you or arrest you if you fail to do so.
Some city centre bars and restaurants don’t allow entry to stag groups. Drunken or offensive behaviour is dealt with according to Czech law and may result in detention and or fines.
If you travel on public transport you must buy a ticket before you travel and validate it via the machine when you board a bus or tram, or at the entrance to a metro or train platform. You can also buy a ticket on all Prague trams using contactless credit card. These do not have to be validated. You’ll be fined on the spot if you are travelling with a ticket that has not been validated. The fine, usually 1000 crowns (around £35.00), is paid directly to the ticket inspector. You should get a receipt. If you can’t pay the fine the police will be called and you may go through identity checks. The fine can be higher if you’re unable to pay on the spot. You can buy tickets at most large hotels, metro stations and at many newspaper stands (‘Trafika’) and convenience stores.
The 30 and 90 minute journey tickets for bus, tram and Metro are not valid for rides on the Petřín Hill funicular railway in Prague. Unless you have a longer-term ticket (24 hours or longer), a specific ticket costing CZK60 is required for the funicular railway. These tickets are available for purchase at vending machines at funicular railway stops.
You may be fined if you attempt to cross a road or tram tracks within 50 metres of a designated crossing point (commonly marked by ‘zebra’ style crossing or traffic lights). You may also be fined if you cross at a pedestrian crossing if the green pedestrian crossing light is not lit.
Same-sex relationships and civil partnerships are legal in Czech Republic but same-sex marriages aren’t recognised in Czech law. Public displays of affection may be frowned upon or attract unwanted attention. See our information and advice page for the LGBT community before you travel.
Surrogacy
It is a criminal offence in the Czech Republic to place a child into the hands of another for profit (gain). You may be liable to prosecution if you are: a surrogate mother; a British national, who intends to take a child born through a surrogacy arrangement; and/or any agent facilitating the handover.
Because of this, we advise against commissioning surrogacy arrangements in the Czech Republic, or relocating ongoing surrogacy arrangements from other countries to here.
You should ensure you have sought UK and in–country specialised legal advice, and read the information for British nationals on surrogacy arrangements in foreign countries.
Taking food and drink into the Czech Republic
You cannot take meat, milk or products containing them into EU countries. There are some exceptions for medical reasons, for example certain amounts of powdered infant milk, infant food, or pet food required for medical reasons. Check the rules about taking food and drink into the EU on the European Commission website.
