Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

There are currently extremely limited commercial options available to return to the UK from the Czech Republic.
If you live in the UK and are currently visiting the Czech Republic, you’re strongly advised to return now. Don’t risk getting stranded.
If you’re trying to get back to the UK and need financial help, see the FCO’s guide on financial assistance.
Flights
International air travel is now limited to Prague Airport, which remains open, but few flights are operating. There are currently no direct flights between Prague and the UK, and indirect flights are limited and expensive, and subject to last-minute cancellations. You should check with your carrier before travelling to Prague Airport to see if your flight is affected. If you are currently in the Czech Republic and want to leave the country, you should make arrangements to do so as soon as possible to ensure departure.
UK special charter flights will only operate for priority countries where commercial flights are not possible. You should not assume that these flights will become available in the Czech Republic because some commercial routes are operating.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Road
There are a limited number of coaches which are taking passengers periodically from Prague to London. The journey takes roughly 17 hours and costs CZK1,950, which must be paid in cash to the driver. The British Embassy will need to secure your seat on these coaches in advance; if you would like to reserve a place on one of these coaches, please contact the British Embassy in Prague on +420 257 402 111 and request consular assistance. Please be aware that these journeys are not operated by the British Government and any journey is undertaken at your own risk.
You are able to drive back to the UK from the Czech Republic. Road travel into neighbouring countries is currently restricted to the 11 designated border crossings listed on the Ministry of Interior’s website. Please check the travel advice in other countries along your route before you make the journey; many countries are asking to see proof of onward travel such a ferry ticket, or in the case of Austria, a certificate proving you are healthy.
The government has confirmed that foreign tourists already in the Czech Republic will be able to return home.
Arrival in the UK
Follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British Embassy on +420 257 402 111 and request consular assistance. The Embassy cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone.
Further information
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately
