Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. You should remain vigilant at all times.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in the Czech Republic
Although there is no recent history of terrorism in the Czech Republic, attacks cannot be ruled out.
You should be aware of the global risk of indiscriminate terrorist attacks which could be in public places, including in places frequented by expatriates and foreign travellers.
Political situation
Protests
Public protests may happen at short notice. These have been peaceful, but take care in crowded places and follow the instructions of local authorities.
Crime
Protecting your belongings
Take care of yourself and your belongings in the same way as you would do in the UK. Take precautions against pickpockets and bag snatchers and avoid leaving your belongings, food or drinks unattended.
Petty theft is a problem, especially in major tourist areas in Prague. There is a risk of pickpocketing on busy metro and bus routes from Prague airport to the city centre and trams to popular tourist sites like Prague castle. Keep your passport and valuables with you at all times.
Report any thefts in person to the Czech police within 24 hours, and get a police report crime number. Prague police station (Jungmannovo namesti 9, Prague 1, nearest metro stop is Mustek) is open 24 hours and has English translators. You can also get a police report from the police station at the airport.
Every lamppost in Prague has a 6-digit number posted at eye level. These codes will help you tell the police where you are if you cannot give them an exact address.
Scams
Be aware of criminals pretending to be plain clothes policemen who ask to see your foreign currency and passport. Czech Republic police officers do not have the right to do this. Do not show them your money. Instead, offer to go with them to the nearest police station. You can also call 158 or 112 to check their identity.
Laws and cultural differences
Personal ID
Carry your passport with you at all times for identification. The police may fine or arrest you if you do not.
Prague safety issues
Prague city police advise visitors to:
always change money at a currency exchange or bank rather than on the street as this money is often counterfeit
take care when using cash machines
avoid contact with sex workers
be aware of consumption charges in night clubs as they are often high
be careful with consumption cards, which carry high financial penalties if you lose them before you pay your bill
Drunken and offensive behaviour
Stag groups are not allowed to enter some city centre bars and restaurants. You may be arrested or fined for drunken or offensive behaviour. Police may take you to ‘Sober-up’ facilities for a temporary period and you may be charged for your stay.
Illegal drugs
The possession, sale and distribution of drugs is illegal, and the drugs are often dangerous counterfeits. Penalties for drug offences are severe, convictions carry sentences of up to 18 years. Some shops, particularly in Prague, advertise ‘cannabis products’, which contain trace amounts of THC permissible under Czech law. However, possessing marijuana remains illegal in the Czech Republic.
LGBT+ travellers
Same-sex relationships and civil partnerships are legal in the Czech Republic but same-sex marriages are not recognised in Czech law. LGBT+ travellers should be aware that showing affection in public could receive unwanted attention. Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Surrogacy
It is illegal to earn money from a surrogacy arrangement.
The police may charge you if you are:
a surrogate mother
a British national who plans to take a child born through surrogacy
an agent organising the handover
FCDO advises against making surrogacy arrangements in the Czech Republic or moving surrogacy arrangements from other countries.
You should get specialist legal advice in the UK and the Czech Republic. Read the information for British nationals on surrogacy arrangements in foreign countries.
Travelling in groups
If you’re travelling in a group, keep a note of your hotel phone number and address in case you are separated. Leave contact details with a friend or relative in the UK.
Transport risks
Cars
If you are planning to drive a hire car or a UK vehicle, see information on driving abroad and check the rules of the road in the RAC’s Czech Republic guide. The guide lists driving regulations and other legal requirements you need to be aware of.
Hire car companies often have stricter requirements for their customers, such as a year of driving experience, a higher minimum age and holding an IDP.
You can use a UK photocard driving licence to drive in the Czech Republic. If you still have a paper driving licence, you may need to update it to a photocard licence or get the correct version of the international driving permit (IDP) as well.
You need a UK sticker to drive your car outside the UK.
In Czech Republic you are not allowed to drive with any alcohol or drugs in your system. The Czech police (‘policie’) can ask any driver to take a breathalyser test on the spot. If they detect any alcohol or drugs, you could face a fine of up to 50,000 Czech koruna, confiscation of your licence and possibly imprisonment.
Taxis
It’s safer to use a major taxi company rather than picking one up in the street. Some taxis charge high prices. Always check the rates on the side of the taxi before getting in.
Buses and trams
Be careful near tram tracks and make sure you look both ways as trams cannot stop quickly. Trams have the right of way on zebra crossings.
You may get a fine if you do not cross roads and tram tracks at pedestrian crossings. You can also get a fine if you cross when the pedestrian crossing light is not green.
You must validate your tickets on public transport in a ticket machine before you start a journey. Officials patrol public transport and will issue an on-the-spot fine of 1,000 koruna (around £35) if you do not hold a validated ticket. You should get a receipt. The police can get involved and will increase the fine if you cannot pay immediately.
The 30 and 90 minute journey tickets for bus, tram and Metro are not valid on the Petřín Hill funicular railway in Prague. You need a specific 60 koruna ticket from the vending machines at funicular railway stops.
