This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Czech Republic as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Czech Republic to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Czech Republic
For information on entering Czech Republic, see Entry Requirements
The Czech Government has declared a State of Emergency until 17 May. From 17 May, the Ministry of Health will have new enhanced powers. Under these, there are various measures in place to control the spread of the virus. The details of these measures can be found in the sections below.
From 27 April, there are no restrictions on movement within the Czech Republic.
From 18 March, anyone leaving their homes must have their mouth and nose covered. This should be done using a face mask if available, although scarves are allowed if a face mask cannot be obtained. Individual outdoor sport activities may be undertaken without a face mask, as well as eating and drinking, but you must keep a distance of two metres from other people.
Restaurants, bars and pubs are closed, but can sell food to take away or consume in outdoor areas. From 11 May, shops are permitted to reopen.
From 10 March, schools and universities have been ordered to close, although since 20 April some schools and universities have reopened to specific year groups. Kindergartens remain open in some areas. UK nationals in need of specific information on education are advised to contact their local Czech authority. School re-opening depends on current infection rates.
On 14 April, the Czech Government announced plans for a phased re-opening of businesses and services from 20 April, dependent on infection rates. For further information, follow local media and the British Embassy in Prague’s twitter page.
Health
Further advice and information is available from the Czech Ministry of Interior, on the main English language site of the Government of the Czech Republic.
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Czech Republic.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Czech Republic, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
