Coronavirus: stay up to date
This page will be updated with country-specific information for travellers to the Czech Republic. Sign up for email alerts.
See our coronavirus travel advice for guidance on travel during the COVID-19 outbreak, including on cruise ship travel.
The Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advise against all but essential travel to the Czech Republic, due to the ongoing outbreak of coronavirus (COVID-19) and in line with various controls and restrictions imposed by the Czech authorities. British nationals in the Czech Republic should follow the advice of the Czech authorities.
There is an ongoing outbreak of coronavirus (COVID-19) in China and elsewhere, including the Czech Republic.
On 12 March, the Czech government declared a 30-day State of Emergency in response.
From midnight on Friday 13 March, (i.e. between Friday 13 March and Saturday 14 March), travel to and from the Czech Republic from a list of 15 ‘at risk’ countries, including the UK, will not be permitted. There are exemptions to this rule, including UK citizens with permanent or temporary residency in the Czech Republic. There are other exceptions, for example for cross-border workers and members of certain professions; please check with Czech authorities for detailed advice. There is no exemption for tourists, who will not be able to travel to the Czech Republic.
The Czech government also confirmed that anyone who is eligible to enter from the UK (and other designated ‘at risk’ countries), will still be required to self-isolate with effect from 1300 (GMT) on 13 March.
UK tourists will still be allowed to travel home from the Czech Republic. If you have questions regarding your onward travel arrangements, please contact your travel provider.
The Czech government has put in place other measures alongside the restrictions on travel. These include the closure of pubs and restaurants between 20:00 and 06:00, and the outlawing of events with more than 30 people. This is in addition to measures announced on the 10 March, which included the closure of schools and universities (except kindergartens, which remain open).
Further advice and information is available from the Czech Ministry of Interior, on the main English language site of the Government of the Czech Republic, from the Czech Ministry of the Interior, and from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. There is further information on prevention measures and travel information from the Czech government.
The Czech government has put border restrictions in place between the Czech Republic and Germany, Austria and Slovakia. Travellers exempt from the new measures can only use specified border crossings, at restricted times. There are enhanced controls at the borders. More information can be found on the Ministry of Interior website. See Health.
The rules on travel to EU countries will stay the same until 31 December 2020. This page will be updated with country-specific information for travellers to the Czech Republic as things change. Sign up for email alerts and view the latest updates for UK nationals travelling to and living in Europe.
Over 300,000 British nationals visit the Czech Republic every year. Most visits are trouble-free.
If you’re living in or moving to the Czech Republic, visit our Living in the Czech Republic guide in addition to this travel advice.
When using public transport you must validate your ticket when you board or you could be fined. See Local laws and customs
Only buy alcohol from legitimate places like supermarkets or bottle shops. Make sure the bottle has an original, untouched seal around the cork or cap. See Crime
Carry your passport with you at all times for identification. See Local laws and customs
Although there is no recent history of terrorism in the Czech Republic, attacks can’t be ruled out. See Terrorism
If you need to contact the emergency services call 112.
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.
You should take out comprehensive travel and medical insurance before you travel. For information on the European Health Insurance Card see Health.
The Overseas Business Risk service offers information and advice for British companies operating overseas on how to manage political, economic, and business security-related risks.
