Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Canada on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Canada.
Returning to the UK
Travelling from and returning to the UK
Check what you must do to travel abroad and return to England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
If you plan to pass through another country to return to the UK, check the travel advice for the country you’re transiting.
You should contact local authorities for information on testing facilities.
As of 20 June 2022 (at 00:01 EDT), vaccination will no longer be a requirement to board a plane or train in Canada. There will no longer be any vaccination requirements for domestic and outbound travel.
Before 20 June 2022, if you’re 12 years of age plus 4 months, or older, you must be fully vaccinated in order to board domestic or international flights departing from most airports in Canada, and to travel on VIA Rail and Rocky Mountaineer trains.
Foreign nationals are allowed to depart Canada even if they don’t qualify as fully vaccinated and don’t permanently reside in Canada. However, they must show proof of a valid COVID-19 test result at the time of boarding.
Foreign nationals departing Canada on a cruise ship must be fully vaccinated and must take a COVID-19 molecular test within 72 hours of their scheduled boarding time OR an antigen test taken no more than 1 day before the scheduled departure. Alternatively, they can also provide proof of a positive molecular test taken at least 10 calendar days and no more than 180 calendar days before entering Canada.
Further information is also available on the Government of Canada’s travel pages.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Canada
To help curb the spread of coronavirus, provincial governments have introduced a number of measures. There are some regional variations, but they generally include:
limit on numbers in bars and restaurants and at large gatherings in affected cities and regions
mandatory wearing of face masks in certain indoor public settings
Public spaces and services
Travellers aged 12 and above must be fully vaccinated to depart from Canadian airports on both domestic and international flights, or travel on VIA Rail and Rocky Mountaineer trains. There are very limited exceptions. Non-medical face masks or face coverings are required for all flights to and from Canadian airports, and within airport terminals. Anyone who cannot wear a face mask for medical reasons must be in possession of a medical certificate. The Canadian authorities recommend the use of non-medical masks/facial coverings when it is not possible to consistently maintain a 2-metre physical distance from others, including on public transportation. Some local transport authorities are making this a mandatory requirement. You should ensure that you are in possession of a mask/facial covering when using public transport in the event you are requested by transport operators to wear one.
Federal, provincial and local authorities may introduce further restrictions at short notice, including the requirement to wear a face mask or face covering in public or enclosed spaces, closing provincial borders, internal travel restrictions, a provisional ban on temporary foreign workers, or mandatory self-isolation for people arriving from other provinces. You should comply with the rules and advice of local authorities in relation to coronavirus. Check guidance for each province.
Healthcare in Canada
If you develop coronavirus symptoms whilst in Canada, you should seek medical assistance and follow the advice of local authorities. Public Health Canada is publishing updates and guidance. There is also an information service at +1-833-784-4397. These Twitter accounts are also official sources of information and guidance:
@GovCanHealth
@CPHO_Canada
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Canada.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Canada
Wherever possible British nationals should aim to be vaccinated in the country where they live. We will update this page when the Government of Canada announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Canadian national vaccination programme started in December 2020 and is using the AstraZeneca, Moderna, Pfizer-BioNTech vaccines. British nationals resident in Canada are eligible for vaccination. The Canadian authorities have issued guidance on how to get a vaccine in Canada.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in Canada, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
