This page has information on travelling to Canada. Check what you must do to return to the UK.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport from the UK, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Canada set and enforce entry rules.
All travellers
Electronic Travel Authorisation (eTA)
Visitors travelling to Canada by air are now expected to get an electronic travel authorisation (eTA) to enter Canada.
If you’re visiting Canada you’ll need an eTA to board your flight unless you’re otherwise exempted (for example, if you have a valid Canadian visa or a permanent resident card). If you have British-Canadian dual nationality you won’t be able to apply for an eTA and you’ll need to present a valid Canadian passport to board your flight to Canada.
If you’re travelling by land or sea, you won’t need an eTA when you enter Canada. However, you must travel with acceptable travel documents and identification.
For more information about the eTA system, and to apply online, visit the Electronic Travel Authorization (eTA) website.
If you’re fully vaccinated
Fully vaccinated foreign nationals may enter Canada for discretionary (non-essential) reasons, such as tourism. Use the online tool ‘Find out if you can travel to Canada’ to find out if you are eligible to enter Canada.
As well as being fully vaccinated, you must
be admissible under the Immigration and Refugee Protection Act; and,
have no COVID symptoms;
submit your mandatory information via ArriveCAN (App or website), including proof of vaccination in English or French; and
take a test on arrival, if selected
wear a face mask during the flight and in airport terminals. If you cannot wear a face mask for medical reasons, you must be in possession of a medical certificate.
From 19 July, arrivals testing will take place outside of airports either via an in-person appointment at select testing provider locations and pharmacies, or a virtual appointment for a self-swab test – further information is available on the government of Canada’s travel pages . If selected for arrivals testing, you are not required to quarantine while awaiting the result.
If your arrival test is positive, you must isolate for 10 days.
If you do not have your vaccine certificate, you may be denied boarding or entry.
Further details are available on the COVID-19 vaccinated travellers entering Canada web page. For questions about travel during the coronavirus pandemic, contact Health Canada.
Proof of vaccination status
To qualify as a fully vaccinated traveller to Canada, you must have received at least 2 doses of a vaccine accepted for travel, a mix of 2 accepted vaccines or at least 1 dose of the Janssen/Johnson & Johnson vaccine. You must have received your second dose at least 14 calendar days before you enter Canada. And you must have no signs or symptoms of COVID-19. Your proof of vaccination must be in English or French. If your proof of vaccination is not in English or French, you will need a certified translation in English or French.
Currently, accepted vaccines are Pfizer-BioNTech, Moderna, AstraZeneca/COVISHIELD, Covaxin, Novavax, Janssen (Johnson & Johnson), Sinopharm, Sinovac and Medicago Covifenz.
Full details about proof of vaccination status can be found on the COVID-19 vaccinated travellers entering Canada web page.
If you’re not fully vaccinated
Foreign nationals who don’t qualify as fully vaccinated will only be allowed to enter in specific circumstances. Check the Government of Canada’s travel pages to find out if you can enter Canada.
If you’re not fully vaccinated but have been granted an exemption to enter Canada, you’ll need to:
be admissible under the Immigration and Refugee Protection Act;
(if 12 years or older) present proof of:
a negative COVID-19 molecular test result taken 72 hours before your scheduled flight to Canada, or arrival at the land border or marine port of entry or
a negative COVID-19 antigen test result, taken no more than one calendar day before your scheduled flight to Canada, or arrival at the land border or marine port of entry or
a positive COVID-19 molecular test result received in the previous 10 to 180 days before your scheduled flight to Canada, or arrival at the land border or marine port of entry
positive antigen tests will not be accepted
have no COVID symptoms;
submit your mandatory information via ArriveCAN (App or website), including: a credible quarantine plan; confirmation of a negative pre-entry test (or positive test taken 10 to 180 days before entering Canada); COVID-19 symptom self-assessment;
take a test on arrival, and a further test on day 8
wear a face mask during the flight and in airport terminals. If you cannot wear a face mask for medical reasons, you must be in possession of a medical certificate.
Self-isolate for 14 days (You are legally required to self-isolate for 14 days. Heavy penalties apply if you fail to comply).
If you do not have a valid test result, you will be denied boarding or entry. Final determination regarding entry and quarantine is made by a government representative at the port of entry based on the information presented to them at the time of entry into Canada.
You must follow the handout given to you at time of entry, as well as all additional federal, provincial/territorial and local public health measures, including wearing a well-constructed mask en route to your place of quarantine. If you have symptoms or an unsuitable quarantine plan, follow the directions provided by the government representative.
From 19 July, arrivals testing will take place outside of airports either via an in-person appointment at select testing provider locations and pharmacies, or a virtual appointment for a self-swab test – further information is available on the government of Canada’s travel pages .
Dependents 18 years of age or over who are unvaccinated because of mental or physical limitation may enter but must follow all testing and quarantine requirements, even when they are accompanied by parents or guardians who qualify as a fully vaccinated traveller.
Children aged 5 -11, who are accompanied by a fully vaccinated parent, step-parent, guardian or tutor, are no longer required to complete a pre-entry COVID-19 test for entry to Canada.
Canadian citizens (including dual citizens), people registered under the Indian Act, permanent residents of Canada, or protected persons (refugee status) are allowed to enter Canada if not fully vaccinated.
Further information about unvaccinated travellers entering Canada during COVID-19 is available on the Public Health Agency of Canada’s website. For questions about travel during the coronavirus pandemic, contact Health Canada.
If you’ve had COVID-19 in the past year
If you’ve recovered from COVID-19, you still need at least 2 doses of an accepted COVID-19 vaccine, a mix of 2 accepted vaccines or 1 dose of the Johnson & Johnson vaccine to enter Canada for discretionary (non-essential) purposes.
If you’ve only had one dose of an accepted vaccine other than Janssen (Johnson & Johnson), you don’t qualify for the fully vaccinated traveller exemption.
Children and young people
Children aged 12 to 17 years must follow the rules for fully vaccinated travellers to enter Canada. Unvaccinated and partially vaccinated children aged 12 to 17 are subject to the 14-day quarantine, and all testing requirements for pre-entry, arrival and Day-8 tests, whether or not they are accompanied by travellers who qualify as a fully vaccinated traveller.
Unvaccinated asymptomatic travellers 12 years of age and over are not required to quarantine upon entering Canada if they meet have a medical contraindication against getting a COVID-19 vaccine and comply with certain measures. See Public Health Canada’s website for further information.
Unvaccinated or partially vaccinated children aged 11 and under accompanied by a partially vaccinated or unvaccinated adult must complete pre-entry, arrival and Day-8 tests, unless you have evidence that the child had a positive COVID-19 test taken 14 to 180 days prior to arrival in Canada or the child is aged 4 and under. There are additional rules that must be followed for the first 14 days of their visit, such as not attending school and limiting contact with others. Further details are available on the Government of Canada’s travel pages.
If you qualify as a fully vaccinated traveller, your unvaccinated or partially vaccinated children aged 11 and under will be exempt from taking a pre-departure test and quarantine, without any limitations on their activities, and are no longer required to produce a quarantine plan. This means, for example, they no longer need to wait 14 days before attending school, camp or day care.
Adults travelling with fully vaccinated children between the ages of 5 to 11 have the option to upload their proof of vaccination into ArriveCAN.
The benefit of uploading the child’s proof is that if they are travelling with an adult who does not qualify as fully vaccinated, the child will qualify for an exemption from quarantine and mandatory testing on Day 1 and Day 8.
Further information is available on the government of Canada travel pages.
If you’re transiting through Canada
You may be permitted to transit through Canada to reach another country. If you are transiting through Canada, you must obtain an Electronic Travel Authorisation (eTA), unless you are otherwise exempted (for example, if you have a valid Canadian visa or a permanent resident card). You must also:
plan your travel so you arrive and depart from the same Canadian airport within 24 hours. Domestic transfers are not permitted
make sure your baggage is checked through to a destination outside of Canada
connections must occur on the same day at all Canadian airports except Toronto Pearson (YYZ)
Overnight connections are not possible at:
Montréal-Trudeau (YUL)
Calgary International (YYC)
Vancouver International (YVR)
During your connection you must remain in the secure transit area to complete your connection. This means that you will not be allowed to collect your baggage, or check-in for your next flight anywhere but at your scheduled gate of departure.
You are exempt from testing and quarantine requirements, as long as you remain in the se-cure transit area to complete your connection within 24 hours. If you need to leave the airport or the secure transit area due to a flight cancellation or delay, you become subject to mandatory quarantine until your flight departs.
You must follow all flight requirements and comply with any guidelines provided by the Airport Authority, such as wearing a face mask. If you cannot wear a face mask for medical reasons, you must be in possession of a medical certificate.
Further information about transiting through Canada can be found on the Transit through Canada webpage. If you have any further questions, you should contact your airline, Immigration, Refugees and Citizenship Canada, or your nearest Canadian high commission, embassy or consulate.
Exemptions
Certain categories of visitors are exempt from being fully vaccinated. You should use the online tool available on the Government of Canada’s travel pages to check if you may be eligible to enter Canada.
Compassionate reasons
Exemptions to the entry rules may apply for:
Dependents 18 years of age or over who are unvaccinated because of mental or physical limitation
attending the funeral of a close family member or caring for or visiting the critically ill
Receiving essential medical services or treatments for a condition other than COVID-19
You should use the online tool available on the Government of Canada’s travel pages to check if you are eligible to enter Canada. If you believe that you meet the criteria for a compassionate exemption, you must apply for compassionate entry before entering Canada, bring all required issued compassionate approvals, and meet testing and quarantine requirements.
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
Passport validity
If you are visiting Canada, your passport should be valid for the proposed duration of your stay. No additional period of validity beyond this is required.
Check with your travel provider to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Visas
British Citizens don’t usually need a visa to visit Canada for short periods, but you’ll need to get an Electronic Travel Authorisation before you travel (see below).
If you have a different type of British nationality or intend to travel for a longer period, such as for work or study, check entry requirements with the Canadian High Commission. Effective from 31 July 2018, you may need to give your fingerprints and photos (biometrics) at a visa application centre when applying for a study or work permit, or permanent residence. When you arrive in Canada, you will need to be able to show that you have enough funds available to support yourself during your stay, even if you’re staying with family and friends.
If you have any doubts about whether you’re eligible to enter Canada (eg if you have a criminal record or have been arrested even if it did not result in a conviction), or about visa matters generally, contact the Canadian High Commission before you travel.
Some unauthorised websites charge for submitting visa applications. These websites are not endorsed by or associated with the Canadian government. Be wary of such sites and businesses, particularly those that seek additional fees.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are accepted for entry, airside transit and exit from Canada. You can apply for an Electronic Travel Authorisation using an ETD.
Travelling with children
If you’re travelling with children and only one parent is present, you should carry a letter of consent from the non-travelling parent. Immigration officers have the right to question children using simple and appropriate language to establish whether there are any concerns about child abduction. A letter of consent may help to dispel potential concerns.
For further information check with the Canadian High Commission or the Canada Border Services Agency.
