At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Coronavirus
Cases of coronavirus (COVID-19) have been confirmed in Canada. The Canadian authorities have introduced a number of travel restrictions in response to the coronavirus pandemic. These are likely to affect commercial flight schedules to the UK and we recommend that British travellers who wish to leave by air make appropriate arrangements to ensure their travel plans can be met. Non-resident British nationals already in Canada should consider contacting airlines and/or tour operators in order to arrange departure as soon as practicably possible.
The Canadian authorities have introduced a number of measures to limit the spread of the virus, including barring foreign nationals from entering the country. This includes a ban on large social gatherings and closure of schools, colleges and many public facilities, museums, cinemas and theatres. Some public transport is offering only a limited service. The authorities are urging people to stay at home where possible. You should keep up to date with information from your tour operator, transport or accommodation provider on the impact of any measures introduced by the authorities on existing travel plans.
The Canadian authorities are now barring entry to Canada to most foreign nationals, including UK Nationals. This exclusion will not apply to: Canadian citizens and permanent residents or their immediate families; Diplomats; and US citizens. If you need further information about entry requirements, contact the local immigration authorities or the nearest Canadian High Commission or consulate. You should also check with your airline or travel company for the latest information.
At the point of departure, air operators will be required to complete a basic health assessment of every passenger. No passengers (regardless of citizenship) who are showing symptoms of coronavirus, will be allowed to board.
From 18 March, international flights will be directed to only Toronto Pearson (YYZ); Montreal Pierre Elliott Trudea (YUL); Calgary International Airport (YYC); and Vancouver International Airport (YVR) to allow for enhanced screening. Flights from the US, Mexico and the Caribbean, and Canadian domestic flights will not be affected by this change. You should check with your airline before you travel.
All travellers arriving in Canada are being asked to self-isolate for 14 days as a precaution and will have to acknowledge that they have been asked to do so. You should comply with any additional screening measures put in place by the authorities.
Boats and cruise ships carrying more than 500 people will be banned from docking at Canadian ports until July. Public Health Canada’s website has a dedicated page on the coronavirus providing updates and guidance. There is also an information service at +1-833-784-4397
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website. You can find more information about cases in Canada on the TravelHealthPro website.
Medical treatment
The cost of medical treatment can be very expensive and there are no special arrangements for British visitors. For emergency health care you can go to a hospital’s emergency room or to a large number of walk-in clinics where an appointment is not required beforehand.
Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation.
If you have dual British-Canadian citizenship you may still have to pay for medical treatment if you don’t meet provincial residency requirements for health care. Check with the relevant province or territory for more information.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 911 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
