Hurricanes
From July to November coastal areas are sometimes affected by hurricanes. For the latest weather conditions and hurricane activity check the National Hurricane Centre, Environment Canada and The Weather Network websites. See Tropical cyclones.
Post-Tropical Storm Fiona passed through Atlantic Canada on Saturday 24 September 2022, causing significant damage to infrastructure. If you have been affected by the storm and need consular assistance, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission . If you are concerned about a friend or relative, contact the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) in London on 020 7008 5000 (24 hours).
Winter conditions
During the winter, highways are often closed in Alberta, British Columbia and other Provinces because of snow storms and avalanches. You can check local weather conditions on The Weather Network website.
Even when roads remain open during a winter storm, driving conditions may still be treacherous. Take care, follow any local restrictions or guidelines, and make sure your vehicle has snow tyres and emergency supplies.
Avalanches
Avalanches can occur in mountainous regions, especially in Alberta and British Columbia. Always comply with avalanche advisories and stay away from closed trails. Follow the directions of local nature guides or instructors. For more information and updated avalanche bulletins visit the Canadian Avalanche Foundation.
Earthquakes and tsunamis
British Columbia and Yukon are located in an active earthquake zone with the coast of British Columbia being most at risk from a major earthquake. Parts of the British Columbia coastline are also at risk from tsunamis. For up to date information please visit Earthquakes Canada and West Coast and Alaska Tsunami Warning Center websites.
You should familiarise yourself with safety procedures in the event of either of an earthquake or tsunami. Further information on emergency preparedness can be found on the Government of Canada’s ‘Get Prepared’ website.
Thunderstorms
Summer thunderstorms are fairly frequent in most parts of Canada. A small number of these intensify causing property damage, and threatening lives.
Tornadoes
Tornadoes can occur almost anywhere in Canada. May to September are the main tornado months with the peak season in June and early July in southern Ontario, Alberta, south eastern Quebec, and a band stretching from southern Saskatchewan and Manitoba through to Thunder Bay. The interior of British Columbia and western New Brunswick may also experience tornadoes. Monitor local and international weather updates on television and radio and follow any instructions from Canadian officials or law enforcement personnel. You can also find updates on the National Hurricane Centre website.
Forest fires
Forest fires can break out at anytime, regardless of the season. In the grasslands and forests of western Canada the fire hazard is higher. Generally Canada has cold dry winters and warm dry summers. Follow any local warnings and monitor news bulletins for latest details on outbreaks.
For more information visit the Environment Canada website.
