Coronavirus guidance is being updated.
Read the Prime Minister’s address for the latest information.

There are still commercial options to return to the UK from Canada. Check travel advice for any country that you will transit on the way back to the UK. The Canada-US land border is closed to non-essential travel.
If you live in the UK and are currently visiting Canada, you are strongly advised to return now by commercial means. Don’t risk getting stranded.
UK special charter flights will only operate for priority countries where commercial flights are not possible. You should not assume that these flights will become available in countries where commercial routes are operating. Please do not contact the contracted travel management company if no flight is advertised here.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
International flights
Only the following airports are operating international flights:
Toronto Pearson (YYZ)
Montreal Pierre Elliott Trudeau (YUL)
Calgary International Airport (YYC)
Vancouver International Airport (YVR)
Whilst other airlines have either suspended all international flights or are no longer flying to the UK, Air Canada is continuing flights to London, at a reduced schedule. These are the current details (subject to change):
Toronto-London: 7 flights per week
Vancouver-London: 3 flights per week
For the most up to date information on specific options for returning to the UK, you should contact airlines directly. For flight status information, check airline websites or call:
British Airways (1 800 247 9297)
Air Canada (1 888 246 2262)
Air Transat (1 877 872 6728)
WestJet (1 888 937 8538)
Due to the high volume of calls, airlines are experiencing longer than normal wait times.
Transit via Canada
If you’re planning to transit via Canada to reach the UK, you should be aware that exceptions apply. A person “in transit” means that they:
arrive and depart from the same airport within a reasonable time frame (the Canadian authorities advise this means as short as possible, and certainly less than 24 hours)
remain on the air side or sterile area of the airport
do not have to go through Customs and formally enter Canada and pick up their bags so they can take their next flight
do not move between terminals at an airport, unless they can do so without going through Customs and formally entering Canada
do not take a domestic flight to get to another airport so they can catch their next international flight
You should also check Transport Canada’s guidance.
The Canadian authorities require visitors transiting through Canada to obtain an Electronic Travel Authorisation (eTA) see Entry requirements, unless you are otherwise exempted (for example, if you have a valid Canadian visa or a permanent resident card).
If you have any further questions, you should contact your airline, Transport Canada, or your nearest Canadian High Commission, Embassy or Consulate.
Your journey home
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
For information about travel options from London to destinations in Scotland, please consult the TravelineScotland website or call +44 (0)1414651878
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British High Commission on +1 613 237 1530. When calling, you may hear a message stating that our offices are closed. However, we remain available 24/7. If you are in need of urgent assistance, please stay on the line and select the option for ‘calling about an emergency involving a British National’ to speak to an officer.
The High Commission cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone.
Further information
The situation is liable to change with little or no notice. Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British High Commission on Twitter and Facebook.
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
