

Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Canada
Terrorists are likely to try to carry out attacks in Canada. 
Attacks could be indiscriminate, including in places visited by foreign nationals. You should remain aware of your surroundings, keep up to date with local media reports and follow the advice of local authorities.
Recent attacks include:
in 2023, one person stabbed and injured in Surrey, British Columbia
in 2021, 4 people killed and one injured by a vehicle in London, Ontario
in 2020, one person killed with a hammer in Scarborough, Ontario
in 2020, one person killed and 2 wounded in a machete attack in Toronto, Ontario
See the Canadian government’s national terrorism threat level.
Crime
Take precautions to protect yourself from petty crime, including:
not leaving your bag or luggage unattended
keeping luggage out of sight in cars
keeping valuables and passport in a safe location
leaving copies of important documents with family and friends in the UK
carrying a copy of your passport for ID
Laws and cultural differences
Cannabis
Recreational cannabis is legally available in Canada. Laws vary depending on the province or territory you are visiting. It is illegal to take cannabis across the Canadian border without a permit or exemption authorised by Health Canada. Those who attempt to take cannabis out of Canada without the relevant permit face arrest.
See the Canadian Border Services Agency website for more information.
Wildlife
If you are hiking or camping, be considerate and cautious of local wildlife. You should:
take all rubbish with you including food items to avoid attracting animals to your site
be careful around animals with nearby young or nests – they may be aggressive when protecting their territory
research the region to learn about the local wildlife
take particular care if you’re in an area where bears have been sighted
keep a safe distance from any wildlife including marine animals and birds
follow park regulations
Outdoor activities and adventure tourism   
See advice on visitor safety when planning outdoor activities and adventure tourism in Canada, and on preparing for winter sports abroad.
Transport risks
Road travel
If you are planning to drive in Canada, see information on driving abroad.
See driving in Canada for information on traffic and safety laws. Laws vary between provinces and territories, including:
whether you are allowed to turn right on a red light
driving licence requirements – you may need to get an international driving permit (IDP)
Take extra care when travelling on country roads and watch out for wild animals. For more information on road conditions and road safety, see Transport Canada, the Canadian Automobile Association and Travel Canada.
Hire car companies often have stricter requirements for their customers, such as a year of driving experience, a higher minimum age and holding an IDP. 
Driving in winter
In winter, highways are often closed because of snowstorms and avalanches in Alberta, British Columbia and other provinces. Check local weather conditions on The Weather Network.
Driving conditions can be dangerous, even when roads remain open during a winter storm. Take care, follow local restrictions or guidelines and make sure your vehicle has snow tyres and emergency supplies. See winter driving advice, including vehicle preparation and using winter tyres.
Extreme weather and natural disasters
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards. 
Hurricanes
From July to November, hurricanes can affect coastal areas. Check the US National Hurricane Center, Environment Canada and The Weather Network websites for the latest weather conditions.
Avalanches
Avalanches can happen in mountainous regions, including Alberta and British Columbia. Always follow avalanche advice and stay away from closed trails. Follow the directions of local guides or instructors. For more information and avalanche news, see the Canadian Avalanche Foundation website. 
Earthquakes and tsunamis
Familiarise yourself with safety procedures in the event of an earthquake or tsunami. The Canadian government has information about emergency preparedness.
Thunderstorms
Summer thunderstorms are frequent in most parts of Canada, particularly between April and September. They can damage property and threaten lives.
Winter storms
Winter storms, including freezing rain, blizzards and hail, are frequent in many parts of Canada, particularly from November to April. They can make driving conditions dangerous, damage property and threaten lives. Follow local warnings or news for details.
Tornadoes
Tornadoes can happen anywhere in Canada from May to September, but June to July is the peak season in:
southern Ontario
Alberta
south-eastern Quebec
southern Saskatchewan and Manitoba through to Thunder Bay
the interior of British Columbia and western New Brunswick
Follow instructions from Canadian officials or law enforcement. Check the US National Hurricane Center for weather updates.
Wildfires
Wildfires can start at any time, whatever the season, although there is particular risk of fire in the grasslands and forests of western Canada during the summer months.
In summer 2023 there were also significant fires in eastern Canada, including parts of Ontario, Quebec and Nova Scotia.
You should follow local warnings or news for details on the latest outbreaks. The Canadian Wildland Fire Information System shows active wildfires and forecasts. You can also monitor wildfire smoke and air quality on the Government of Canada’s website.
Arctic travel
Parts of Canada are in the Arctic Circle, including some very remote areas of land and sea. Emergency medical assistance and search and rescue are limited in these areas. See Arctic travel safety advice.
