Coronavirus guidance is being updated.
Read the Prime Minister’s statement for the latest information.

This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Canada as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Canada to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Canada
To help curb the spread of coronavirus, provincial governments have introduced a number of measures. There are some regional variations, but they generally include:
a ban on social gatherings
closure of schools, colleges and many public facilities, museums, cinemas and theatres
closure of bars, restaurants and non-essential stores in many cities and regions
some public transport offering only a limited service
The authorities are urging people to stay at home where possible, and many businesses are closed.
Anyone showing symptoms associated with coronavirus will be barred from domestic flights and some inter-city train services. From 20 April, non-medical face masks or face coverings are required for all flights to and from Canadian airports. The Canadian authorities recommend the use of non-medical masks/facial coverings when it is not possible to consistently maintain a 2-metre physical distance from others, including on public transportation. Some local transport authorities are making this a mandatory requirement. You should ensure that you are in possession of a mask/facial covering when using public transport in the event you are requested by transport operators to wear one.
Both the federal and provincial governments may introduce further restrictions at short notice, including closing provincial borders, internal travel restrictions, a provisional ban on temporary foreign workers, or mandatory self-isolation for people arriving from other provinces. You should comply with the rules and advice of local authorities in relation to coronavirus. Check guidance for each province.
See also Entry requirements.
Visas
If you are already in Canada and your visa has expired, or is about to expire, see the guidance on Immigration, Refugees and Citizenship Canada’s website.
Health
If you develop coronavirus symptoms whilst in Canada, you should seek medical assistance and follow the advice of local authorities. Public Health Canada is publishing updates and guidance. There is also an information service at +1-833-784-4397. These Twitter accounts are also official sources of information and guidance:
@GovCanHealth
@CPHO_Canada
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Canada.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Canada, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
