The Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) advises against all but essential travel to Canada based on the current assessment of COVID-19 risks
The requirement to self-isolate on return to the UK from Canada remains in place. See guidance on entering or returning to the UK.
The FCDO is not advising those already travelling in Canada to leave at this time. Travellers should follow the advice of the local authorities on how best to protect themselves and others, including any measures that they bring in to control the virus. You should contact your tour operator or airline if you have any questions about your return journey. From 31 January to 30 April 2021, Air Canada, WestJet, Air Transat and Sunwing have suspended flights to Mexico and the Caribbean.
Travel to Canada is subject to entry restrictions
Entry to Canada is limited, except for temporary foreign workers, most international students, Canadian citizens and permanent residents or their immediate and extended families, provided they remain in Canada for 15 days or more.
If you’re eligible to enter Canada, you will need to self-isolate for 14 days after arrival, and from 7 January, prior to departure you must present the airline with a negative test performed within 72 hours of boarding your flight.
See Entry requirements for more information before you plan to travel.
Preparing for your return journey to the UK
If you’re returning to the UK from overseas, you will need to:
provide your journey and contact details before you travel
check if you need to self-isolate on your return
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
If you’re planning travel to Canada, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCDO’s guidance on foreign travel insurance.
Around 724,000 British nationals visit Canada each year. Most visits are trouble free.
Visitors travelling to Canada by air are now expected to get an electronic travel authorisation (eTA) to enter Canada. See Entry requirements
Terrorists are likely to try to carry out attacks in Canada. See Terrorism
Severe snow storms are a regular occurrence during winter. Monitor local news and weather reports and visit Environment Canada. See Local travel and Natural disasters
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.
