Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for St Maarten on the TravelHealthPro website.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in St Maarten.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements. Contact the local authorities on St Maarten to receive information on getting tested for travel purposes.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in St Maarten
The Government of St Maarten has put measures in place in response to the coronavirus pandemic. See the website of the Government of St Maarten for updates and details of these measures, including guidance on what you should do if you test positive for COVID-19 during your stay.
Accommodation
Travellers must familiarise themselves with the guidelines and protocols of their accommodation and activity providers and adhere to them.
Healthcare in St Maarten
If you think you have COVID-19 symptoms, you should:
Seek medical care. Call ahead before you go to a doctor’s office or emergency room
Contact the public health authorities by dialling 914
Tell your doctor about your recent travel and your symptoms
Avoid contact with others
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in St Maarten.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in St Maarten
Wherever possible British nationals should aim to be vaccinated in the country where they live. As further information is available about the national vaccination programme, this page will be updated. Sign up to get email notifications.
The vaccination programme in St Maarten started in February 2021. The vaccine is available to all St Maarten residents and is being rolled out in stages according to priority group. More details on the vaccination programme and how to register can be found on the website of the Government of St Maarten.
The Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) is the UK authority responsible for assessing the safety, quality and efficacy of vaccines. It has authorised the Pfizer/BioNTech, Oxford/AstraZeneca and Moderna vaccines for temporary supply and use in the UK. Find out more about MHRA approval for these vaccines.
British nationals living overseas should seek medical advice from their local healthcare provider in the country where they reside. Information about vaccines used in other national programmes, including regulatory status, should be available from the local authorities. This list of Stringent Regulatory Authorities recognised by the World Health Organisation may also be a useful source of additional information. Find out more information about the COVID-19 vaccines on the World Health Organization COVID-19 vaccines page.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
