This page has information on travelling to St Maarten.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport from the UK, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in St Maarten set and enforce entry rules. If you’re unsure how St Maarten’s entry requirements apply to you, contact its UK embassy, high commission or consulate.
All travellers
All travellers should complete and submit the health declaration form (EHAS process) 72 hours prior to travel. Part of the application process is the purchase of a mandatory COVID-19 insurance. Further information on entry requirements can be found on the website of the Government of St Maarten.
There are no border formalities when crossing St Maarten from the Dutch side to the French side.
If you’re fully vaccinated
If you’re fully vaccinated, you can enter St Maarten without needing to test or quarantine.
At least 14 days must have passed since your last dose of the vaccine and the vaccine must be approved by the government of St Maarten.
Find out if you qualify as fully vaccinated in St Maarten on the website of the Government of St Maarten.
Proof of vaccination status
You must present proof that you have been fully vaccinated to enter St Maarten. The proof of vaccination needs to be uploaded as part of the Electronic Health Authorization System (EHAS) process. This applies to all travellers aged five years and above.
If you’re not fully vaccinated
If you’re not fully vaccinated, you’ll need to show proof of a negative PCR test, taken no more than 48 hours before departure, when entering St Maarten. See information on getting a test before entry.
For children between 5 and 10 years, a throat swab is accepted.
If you’ve had COVID-19 in the past year
If you’re not fully vaccinated but have tested positive for COVID-19 recently, you can enter St Maarten. You’ll need to show evidence of a positive PCR test taken not more than 9 months before your departure. You will not need to take an additional COVID-19 test.
If your positive test was more than 9 months ago before departure, you need to take a pre-departure test.
Children and young people
Children aged 5 and above can follow the rules for adult travellers to enter St Maarten.
For children between 5 and 10 years, a throat swab is accepted as pre-departure test.
Children aged 4 and under do not need to show proof of vaccination or a negative PCR test to enter St Maarten.
If you’re transiting through St Maarten
Transiting passengers are required to complete the EHAS application form but do not need to take out the mandatory insurance.
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
Passport validity
Your passport should be valid for a minimum period of 6 months from the date of entry into St Maarten.
Visas
British passport holders do not need a visa for stays of up to 3 months. For further information about entry requirements, contact the Embassy of the Kingdom of the Netherlands.
Further information on visa requirements can be found at the Netherlands and You website.
There are no border formalities when crossing St Maarten from the Dutch side to the French side.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are accepted for entry, airside transit and exit from St Maarten.
