

Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.    
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in St Maarten
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in St Maarten, attacks cannot be ruled out.
Crime
Protecting yourself and your belongings
There is a risk of petty theft and street crime. The main tourist areas are generally safe.
To reduce the risk to yourself and your belongings:
avoid isolated areas, particularly after dark
use licensed taxis
avoid taking valuables to the beach
avoid carrying large amounts of cash or jewellery
make sure purses and handbags are closed and not easy to snatch
leave valuables in a safety deposit box or secure hotel safe
Drug-related crime
St Maarten is used as a drug passageway from South America to Europe and North America. There can be drug-related violent crime, but this rarely affects tourists. Do not leave bags unattended or agree to carry a package for anyone.
The authorities use body scanners and baggage screening for passengers. There are severe penalties for possessing and trafficking narcotics.
Prostitution  
Prostitution is not illegal, but facilitating prostitution without a licence is illegal. St Maarten has adopted a ‘tolerance approach’ to foreign workers in certain establishments on the island. This means that criminal law is not enforced in those locations as long as people follow set requirements.
Laws and cultural differences
Personal ID
It is a legal requirement to carry ID with a photo, for example a passport or photocard driving licence. A printed copy of your ID is not usually acceptable.
LGBT+ travellers
St Maarten is generally accepting of the LGBT+ community. There have been no reports of incidents directed against members of the LGBT+ community.
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Transport risks
Road travel
If you are planning to drive in St Maarten, check local requirements. See information on driving abroad and check the rules of the road in the Dutch motor association guide (in Dutch).
If you plan to hire a car, check ahead for the requirements of the hire car company.  
Driving conditions
Main roads are in relatively good condition. Roads can become slippery in wet weather and potholes can appear, especially on unsurfaced roads. 
Be alert in traffic on St Maarten, as it can be crowded and lacks traffic signs. Adapt your driving as much as possible.
Drink-driving is a serious offence in St Maarten. If you are tested and found to have more than two-thirds the legal limit for England and Wales in your system, you could get a fine and possible imprisonment.
Taxis
Use registered taxis with the word ‘taxi’ on the number plate. Taxis are not metered, but there are fixed rates for standard routes. Always agree the fare before setting off.
Extreme weather
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards.
Hurricanes
The hurricane season in St Maarten normally runs from June to November. Monitor local and international weather updates from:
US National Hurricane Center
Meteorological Department Curaçao
World Meteorological Organization
