The FCDO advises against all but essential travel to:
the whole of St Maarten based on the current assessment of COVID-19 risks.
If you are returning to the UK from St Maarten, you will need to self-isolate on your return (unless you are exempt). Check the latest guidance for England, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales.
Travel to St Maarten is subject to entry restrictions
Before arrival in St Maarten, passengers must:
Complete self health declaration form online 72 hours prior to arrival;
Provide a certified COVID-19 (PCR) Negative Test Result dated no older than 72-hours of your arrival date;
Travel with masks and hand sanitizer;
Wear a face mask during travel;
Research and read the guidelines and protocols of the airline you are travelling on and your airport of embarkation and visit the SXM Airport website for any updates.
See Entry requirements for more information before you plan to travel.
Preparing for your return journey to the UK
If you’re returning to the UK from overseas, you will need to:
provide your journey and contact details before you travel
check if you need to self-isolate on your return
If your return journey to the UK transits another country, you should check whether it is subject to a travel ban or any other additional requirements. If so, contact your travel provider.
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
If you’re planning travel to St Maarten, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCDO’s guidance on foreign travel insurance.
For information about COVID-19 vaccines, see the Coronavirus page.
The hurricane season in the Caribbean normally runs from June to November. You should monitor local and international weather updates from the US National Hurricane Centre and follow the advice of local authorities, including any evacuation orders. See Natural disasters
The island was severely affected by the passage of Hurricanes Irma and Maria in September 2017. Many buildings were destroyed and parts of St Maarten were affected by flooding. Reconstruction has begun, but due to the size of the devastation, the effects are still noticeable. The tourism sector was severely affected and room capacity is reduced; it is advisable to make prior reservations.
St. Maarten is used as a drug passageway from South America to Europe and North America. Do not leave bags unattended or agree to carry a package for anyone. See Crime
UK health authorities have classified St Maarten as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For information and advice about the risks associated with Zika virus, visit the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in St Maarten, attacks can’t be ruled out. See Terrorism
Consular support may be limited in St Maarten. However, the British Consulate General Amsterdam in the Netherlands can provide consular support to British nationals.
If you need to contact the emergency services in the Dutch part of the island, call 911 (police), 912 (ambulance), 919 (fire) or 913 (Coastguard).
