Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Costa Rica on the TravelHealthPro website.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
Commercial flights are not running normally. United Airlines, Iberia, Air France and Lufthansa are operating some flights and other airlines are resuming operations on certain dates. Check with the airlines or a travel agent. If you are in Costa Rica and need consular assistance, please use the Online Contact page.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Costa Rica.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements. You should contact local authorities for information on testing facilities (only available in Spanish).
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Costa Rica
The use of private vehicles is currently restricted for the entire country. Restrictions vary as the COVID-19 risk levels change. The restrictions are usually based on the last number of the licence plate. You should check local information.
You can drive in Costa Rica on a UK Driving Licence or an International Driving Permit while visiting as a tourist (max 90 days). Due to COVID-19, those who entered the country since 17 December 2019 have had their permission to use a UK Driving Licence extended while they are lawfully in the country.
If resident for longer periods, you may need to obtain a Costa Rican licence. Drivers should produce their licence and passport if requested to do so by a police officer.
There is a requirement for use of face masks on public transport, which can vary with COVID-19 risk levels. Check official information.
The supply of hire cars may be reduced, as rental companies have been asked to lend their vehicles for deliveries of medical equipment and goods. Public transport is operational with some restrictions. Taxis can operate at all hours.
Accommodation
You should find accommodation that is suitable for your needs. Hotels and many other types of establishment are now being allowed to operate at varying levels of capacity (at 50 or 100%) depending on the level of COVID-19 alert in their location. Check Local Information. For tourist advice, including accommodation and travel, call +506-2299-5827 or via WhatsApp messaging at +506-8628-3247.
Public spaces and services
There are restrictions on beaches, restaurants, bars and other places where people gather. These are subject to change as COVID-19 risk levels vary. Take note of official advice and information.
Healthcare in Costa Rica
If you think you have COVID-19 symptoms you should call 1322, a national telephone number, and follow the advice of the authorities.
British-issued prescriptions cannot be used locally. To find a pharmacy (“farmacia”) look for one of the big national chains such as Farmacia Fischel, Farmacia Sucre, FarmaValue, Farmacia Saba, or Farmacia Santa Lucia, among others; a quick search online should help you to identify the nearest one open.
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers. Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
See Health for further details on healthcare in Costa Rica.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Costa Rica
Wherever possible British nationals should aim to be vaccinated in the country where they live. As further information is available about the national vaccination programme, this page will be updated. Sign up to get email notifications.
The Costa Rican authorities have issued information on their national vaccination programme with further information available on the Ministry of Health’s website. This information is only available in Spanish. If you are a legal resident and are registered for healthcare, you will be eligible to be part of the programme and will be contacted to receive your vaccination through your local clinic. You should make sure that you have your current contact details registered with your local public clinic.
The Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) is the UK authority responsible for assessing the safety, quality and efficacy of vaccines. It has authorised the Pfizer/BioNTech, Oxford/AstraZeneca and Moderna vaccines for temporary supply and use in the UK. Find out more about MHRA approval for these vaccines.
British nationals living overseas should seek medical advice from their local healthcare provider in the country where they reside. Information about vaccines used in other national programmes, including regulatory status, should be available from the local authorities. This list of Stringent Regulatory Authorities recognised by the World Health Organisation may also be a useful source of additional information. Find out more information about the COVID-19 vaccines on the World Health Organization COVID-19 vaccines page.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British Embassy, High Commission or Consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
You should not visit the Embassy in person unless you have arranged this by calling the Embassy number (+506) 2258 2025 and been given an appointment.
Useful telephone numbers:
in an emergency, dial 911
for COVID-19 related issues the Costa Rican Tourism Institute has provided a non-emergency number: 1322
for tourist advice, including accommodation and travel, call +506-2299-5827 or via WhatsApp messaging at +506-8628-3247
