At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Coronavirus
There is an ongoing outbreak of coronavirus (COVID-19) worldwide and cases have been confirmed in Costa Rica. The Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advise against all but essential travel to Costa Rica due to the ongoing Coronavirus pandemic and in line with travel restrictions imposed by the Costa Rican authorities.
On 16 March 2020 the Costa Rican government announced a state of emergency and that from midnight on Wednesday 18 March 2020 until midnight on Sunday 12 April 2020 only Costa Rican citizens and legal residents will be allowed entry to the country by land, sea or air. These categories of people, entering during this time, will be required to self-isolate for 14-days.We advise British nationals in Costa Rica to follow the advice of the local authorities. The FCO strongly encourages - British nationals in Costa Rica to consider leaving to avoid difficulties they will face if flights out of the country and the region are further restricted and they are unable to get home. British Airways have indicated that their direct flights to and from Costa Rica will cease after their last flight on Monday 30 March 2020 and are scheduled to resume on 27 June 2020. Resident and Non-resident British nationals in Costa Rica who wish to leave should contact their airline or tour operator, and travel insurance company.
The Costa Rican authorities have introduced a number of measures to limit the spread of the virus and have made a hotline number available - 1322 - with information and advice for people affected by the outbreak. You should comply with any additional screening measures put in place by the authorities.
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website. You can find more information about cases in Costa Rica on the TravelHealthPro country page.
UK health authorities have classified Costa Rica as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For more information and advice, visit the website of the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
There has been a significant increase in the number of reported cases of dengue fever in the Central American region. The number of reported cases in Costa Rica increased from approximately 2700 cases in 2018, to more than 6300 cases during 2019.
Cases of Chikungunya virus have been confirmed in Costa Rica and the number of reported cases in the region is increasing. You should take steps to avoid being bitten by mosquitoes.
Medical care in Costa Rica is of a generally high standard. Ambulance services in remote areas may vary. Only initial emergency medical treatment is available without charge for visitors. Subsequent treatment will be charged. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 911 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
