Hurricane Eta, which struck Central America on 4–6 November caused flooding and landslides to occur in several areas, –leading to closures on key routes. A further weather system, Tropical Depression 31, is forecast to develop into a Tropical Storm-or Hurricane, affecting again the northern Atlantic Coast of Nicaragua from early Monday 16 November 2020. This is likely to cause further adverse weather in Costa Rica. It may bring rainfall and possible landslides on major routes. You should plan any essential travel carefully. You should monitor local travel reports and international weather updates from the US National Hurricane Centre, who also publish key messages. Follow the advice of local authorities, including any evacuation orders.
Keep up to date with FCDO travel advice and social media. You can sign up for our email alert service to be notified of any updates to our travel advice.
Hurricanes
The hurricane season normally runs from June to November. You should monitor the local and international weather updates from the World Meteorological Organisation and the National Hurricane Centre.
See our tropical cyclones page for advice about what to do if you are caught up in a storm.
Flooding
The rainy season in Costa Rica normally runs from May to November, coinciding with the hurricane season in the Caribbean. Flooding can occur and heavy rains or hurricanes can cause landslides.
Monitor local and international weather updates from the World Meteorological Organisation and the National Hurricane Centre.
Earthquakes and volcanic eruptions
Costa Rica experiences regular seismic activity. The last major earthquake occurred in November 2017 and measured 6.5. Three deaths by heart attack were linked to this event. Another major earthquake measuring 7.6 happened in September 2012 near the Pacific coastal area of Nicoya Peninsula. The US Federal Emergency Management Agency website has advice about what to do before, during and after an earthquake or tsunami.
Costa Rica has 16 volcanoes, several of which are considered active. The possibility of eruptions always exists.
