There are currently no commercial options available to return to the UK from Costa Rica.
UK special flight
A special flight will depart from Juan Santamaria Airport in San Jose, Costa Rica, on 11 June to London Heathrow.
The flight cost is £800 per person.
This flight is for:
British nationals, normally resident in the UK
dependants travelling with a British national
Vulnerable British nationals will be prioritised.
Vulnerable non-British UK residents with Indefinite Leave to Remain, and other foreign nationals, may be accommodated if there is sufficient capacity.
Your eligibility will be checked before your tickets are issued.
How to book
CTM is working on behalf of the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) to manage special flight bookings.
If you wish to travel, book on the CTM website as soon as possible.
To book flights on the CTM website, you will need:
full passport and contact details for each traveller
your UK home address and postcode
your means of payment, such as credit or debit card details
The booking website is only available to British nationals. If you have difficulty booking online, or if you are a vulnerable non-British UK resident with Indefinite Leave to Remain, or another foreign national, then you will need to contact us. To do so, send an SMS text message containing only your full name to +44 (0)7537 416 125. A member of the CTM team will then be in touch.
Tickets will not be on sale at the airport. Do not travel to the airport without a confirmed ticket.
You may find it helpful to read our guide to eligibility and the booking process for special charter flights.
Financial support for a flight
If you have exhausted all other options available to you for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government to cover the cost of the ticket.
You would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK.
Our partner CTM is also authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO and details will be available when you are asked to pay.
Travel to the airport
Using private vehicles is currently restricted:
from 5am to 10pm, the usual registration plate restriction for San Jose has been extended to the entire country
the authorities have also announced a ban on the use of private vehicles between 10pm and 5am, except those used by officials, diplomats or people categorised as ‘essential workers’
on weekends, vehicles are restricted according to odd/even license plate number, and only for visits to supermarkets, pharmacies and medical centres
You should check vehicle guidance for further details.
The supply of hire cars may be reduced, as rental companies have been asked to lend their vehicles for deliveries of medical equipment and goods. Public transport is operational from 4 am to 11pm. Taxis can operate at all hours.
Your journey home
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
If you’re returning home before 8 June, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others. From 8 June there will be new rules for entering the UK.
If you cannot leave Costa Rica at this time
If you cannot leave Costa Rica at this time, see advice on staying in Costa Rica during coronavirus.
Resident and non-resident British nationals in Costa Rica who have been unable to leave due to flight cancellations should contact their airline or tour operator urgently to find out what support they can offer. You should review updates provided by the airport authorities. You should also contact your insurance company about your cover.
Future travel options
United Airlines are operating repatriation flights to Houston on several dates in June. Details are available through the United Airlines website. There are currently no direct flights from Houston to UK, but connections are available to other US airports with suitable onward travel options. This may involve a lengthy or overnight transit. You will require a valid ESTA or visa and to comply with the relevant US entry requirements.
British Airways is scheduled to resume flights to/from Costa Rica in July 2020.
Until recently it had been possible to leave Costa Rica by land via Nicaragua to catch flights from Managua airport. However, all commercial flights from Managua have ended and Nicaragua has reportedly closed its borders.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
This travel advice will be updated when departure options become available. Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British Embassy on Facebook and Twitter.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British Embassy at Consular.CostaRica@fco.gov.uk or on (+506) 2258 2025.
