

Terrorism  
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times. 
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad. 
Terrorism in Costa Rica 
Although there’s no history of terrorism in Costa Rica, attacks cannot be ruled out.  
Attacks involving an explosive device occurred in front of a parliamentary office building and a TV station in San José in June and July 2019 respectively. 
Attacks could be indiscriminate including in places visited by foreigners. Stay aware of your surroundings, keep up to date with local media reports and follow the advice of local authorities.
Crime 
Protecting your belongings 
Muggings and theft are significant problems, particularly on the Atlantic coast. You should: 
be aware of who is around you when using ATMs 
be vigilant on buses and keep your luggage in view if possible – thieves are likely to try and distract you 
watch wallets and valuables when on the beach 
avoid leaving luggage in a parked car, either in view or in the boot 
There have been incidents where thieves slash a tyre and then offer to help change it, while an accomplice steals from the car.  
Violent crime  
Avoid walking alone in poorly lit or remote areas at night. Gangs occasionally carry out muggings and armed robberies. A number of foreign nationals including one British national have gone missing in recent years, with some incidents related to criminal activity. 
If you’re using a hire car, do not stop your car for strangers signalling for help – they could be carjackers.  
Criminals sometimes cause deliberate collisions to stop vehicles and commit robberies or other crimes. If you think a collision was a deliberate act by another driver to make you stop, drive on until you reach a safe place like a police station or garage. You will need to be able to explain your actions to the traffic police.
Spiked drinks and sexual assault 
Rapes and sexual assaults have increased, some of which appear targeted toward tourists. Avoid leaving drinks unattended in bars as there have been reports of ‘spiked’ drinks resulting in assault and theft. 
Women travelling alone have reported having to pay extra attention to their personal safety. 
See advice for women travelling abroad.
Methanol poisoning 
There have been a number of deaths and cases of serious illness caused by alcoholic drinks containing methanol. Criminal gangs have apparently used methanol in the manufacture of cheap brands of local spirits, including vodka and ‘guaro’ (cane liquor). You should take care when buying spirit-based drinks. 
The Pan American Health Organisation (PAHO) says that methanol can cause headaches, dizziness, nausea and vomiting, and can seriously damage the optic nerve. Chronic exposure may cause respiratory or cardiac failure. If you, or someone you are travelling with, shows signs of methanol poisoning, seek immediate medical attention.
Laws and cultural differences  
Personal ID 
As a foreigner, you must carry ID such as a passport. The police will usually accept a photocopy. Make sure you have the original available somewhere safe in case they ask to see it. 
Illegal drugs and prison sentences 
Do not get involved with drugs of any kind. The Costa Rican authorities treat the possession of drugs and drug trafficking severely. The minimum sentence is 8 years imprisonment. 
LGBT+ travellers 
Costa Rica is generally welcoming of LGBT+ travellers. Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Outdoor activities and adventure tourism  
Swimming safety 
While swimming on any beach in Costa Rica, bear in mind that rip currents are very common and there are often no lifeguards. Seek reliable local advice. Drownings are the second most common cause of accidental death and in recent years have averaged 50 to 60 per year, a third of whom were tourists. 
Take extra care if participating in tours involving snorkelling or similar activities. There have been recent fatalities. 
There are regular sightings of crocodiles along the Pacific coast near beaches popular with surfers, from Playa Azul down to Playa Esterillos, and there have been attacks in recent years.
Water sports 
Safety standards for adventure activities and on small boats are variable. There have been several incidents involving small boats in the Tortuguero area, including a fatality due to a falling tree. If you plan to take part any of these activities, use an established company with experienced staff.
Rainforest tours 
If you are visiting jungle areas, go with an experienced local guide.
Transport risks  
Road travel  
If you’re planning to drive in Costa Rica, see information on driving abroad. 
Private cars are only allowed to enter the capital of San José on certain weekdays, allocated using the last digit of the licence plate number. Your hire car company can give you more details. 
You can use a UK photocard driving licence to drive in Costa Rica for up to 3 months. If you still have a paper driving licence, you may need to update it to a photocard licence or get an  international driving permit. Border authorities may refuse entry to right-hand drive vehicles as they’re illegal and do not qualify for local insurance. 
The standard of driving is lower than in the UK. Drivers cause accidents by speeding, overtaking irresponsibly or ignoring traffic lights. Take care when approaching bridges over the road as these often narrow the road to a single lane. 
Road conditions are generally good on main routes. However, in the rainy season, heavy rains can cause potholes and landslides that block the roads.  
If you have an accident where somebody has been injured or where the other driver does not accept blame, you must not move your vehicle until the traffic police have arrived. Contact the traffic police (‘transito’ – telephone: 2222 9330 or 2222 9245) and the insurance investigator (INS – telephone: 800 800 8000) immediately.
Taxis 
Avoid using unofficial taxis (‘taxi piratas’). Official taxis are red (or orange at the airport) with a triangular sticker and plastic box on the roof with the name and number of the taxi company. It’s best to use radio-dispatched taxis. Make sure the driver’s ID is clearly visible on the dashboard and that the driver uses the meter.
Extreme weather and natural disasters 
See extreme weather and natural hazards for information about how to prepare, and how to react if there is a warning. 
Hurricanes  
The hurricane season usually runs from June to November – the same as the hurricane season in the Caribbean. Monitor the National Hurricane Center forecasts and the World Meteorological Organization warnings. Follow the advice of local authorities, including any evacuation orders. Keep up to date with FCDO travel advice and social media. Plan any local travel carefully.
Flooding  
The June-November period is also the peak rainy season. Flooding and landslides may occur, resulting in road closures and driving hazards.
Earthquakes 
There is a risk of earthquakes: movements greater than magnitude 6 occur periodically. Local infrastructure is well-prepared, and earthquakes seldom have widespread effects. The US Federal Emergency Management Agency website has advice about what to do before, during and after an earthquake or a tsunami. 
Volcanic eruptions 
Costa Rica has 16 volcanoes, several of which are considered active. The risk of eruptions is always present. The most recent significant eruption was at Volcan Rincon de la Vieja on 21 April 2023. 
Check news reports and follow local advice before travelling to any areas around volcanoes. Avoid volcanic areas during and immediately after heavy rainfall when there’s increased risk of lava flows.
Ash plumes can affect air quality and have an impact on health. If you have any pre-existing respiratory conditions, you might be at increased risk of triggering or worsening your symptoms. A properly fitted face mask may provide some protection.  
