Coronavirus guidance is being updated.
Read the Prime Minister’s statement for the latest information.

This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Costa Rica as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Costa Rica to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Costa Rica
The use of private vehicles is currently restricted for the entire country, as follows: from 5am to 10pm on weekdays, licence plates ending in digits 1 & 2 do not circulate on Mondays: 3 & 4 on Tuesdays: 5 & 6 on Wednesdays: 7 & 8 on Thursdays: 9 & 0 on Fridays. There is also a ban on the use of private vehicles between 10pm and 5am, except those used by officials, diplomats or people categorised as ‘essential workers’.
From 3 June extended driving restrictions (from 5pm to 5am) will enter into force in northern parts of the country (in the areas of La Cruz, Guatuso, Upala, Los Chiles and Rio Cuarto, as well as districts of San Carlos, Guacimo, Pococi, Sarapiqui y Siquirres). Check here for further details.
On weekends, vehicles are restricted according to odd/even license plate number, and only for visits to supermarkets, pharmacies and medical centres. From 5am to 7pm on Saturdays, license plates ending in even numbers do not circulate. On Sundays, this is the case for plates ending in odd numbers. An overnight ban takes effect from 7pm to 5am except for categories set out above. You should check vehicle guidance for further details.
We advise British nationals in Costa Rica to follow the advice of the local authorities. The supply of hire cars may be reduced, as rental companies have been asked to lend their vehicles for deliveries of medical equipment and goods. Public transport is operational from 4 am to 11pm. Taxis can operate at all hours.
See also Entry requirements.
Visas
Any foreigner who entered Costa Rica as a tourist after 17 December 2019 will have their visa waiver (usually 90 days) extended until 17 August 2020. There is no need to apply for this to be processed, it is applied automatically.
Accommodation
You should find accommodation that’s suitable for your needs. The Costa Rican authorities ordered the closure of all hotels, except those providing accommodation to foreign tourists and some essential workers, until 30 April. Some hotels are now being allowed to operate at half their capacity. For tourist advice, including accommodation and travel, call +506-2299-5827 or via WhatsApp messaging at +506-8628-3247.
Health
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Costa Rica.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Costa Rica, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
You should not visit the Embassy in person unless you have arranged this by calling the Embassy number (+506) 2258 2025 and been given an appointment.
Useful telephone numbers:
in an emergency, dial 911
for COVID-19 related issues the Costa Rican Tourism Institute has provided a non-emergency number: 1322
for tourist advice, including accommodation and travel, call +506-2299-5827 or via WhatsApp messaging at +506-8628-3247
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
