Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Vietnam on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Domestic travel
Air Travel
Until further notice all commercial domestic flights to and from areas under social distancing have been suspended. Check on the status of your flight with your travel provider before travelling.
Inter-province public transport
Most inter-provincial public transport services have been suspended and those still operating are likely to be heavily booked. Many provincial borders are closed. Transport services may be cancelled or suspended at short notice. You should check with your travel provider and/or local authorities before travelling including provisions for onward travel after disembarking.
International travel
Commercial flights to and from Vietnam remain very limited. A number of airline websites allow online booking from Vietnam. However, check carefully in advance whether these flights are guaranteed to fly and whether they are passenger flights. Flights and transit arrangements are still prone to changes and cancellation with little notice.
Until further notice, all passengers, including infants and children, departing from Tan Son Nhat airport (Ho Chi Minh City) are required to present a negative COVID-test to board their flight.
You should check with your travel agent or airline before travelling for any last minute change and/or additional travel requirements.
Travel to Noi Bai airport in Hanoi and Tan Son Nhat airport in Ho Chi Minh City is permitted with a boarding pass or ticket, and a passport. For travel to Tan Son Nhat airport (only) during curfew hours (6pm – 6am) you should contact the British Consulate General at Consular.Vietnam@fcdo.gov.uk for a letter enabling travel to the airport. You should be alert to announcements from local authorities/
If you are returning to the UK, a transit stop in the journey may require you to self-quarantine on arrival. See guidance on entering or returning to the UK
There are some restrictions on airside transit at airports you may transit when travelling to and from Vietnam which you should check in advance to ensure you will be able to transit, particularly transit times, visa and transit visa requirements and whether your baggage can be transferred airside at transit points.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Vietnam.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government requirements. The Vietnamese authorities have issued information on testing facilities and procedures (only available in Vietnamese). The testing facilities can be contacted directly.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID-19. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport and/or rule changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Public spaces and services
The measures to combat COVID-19 vary from province to province and can be expected to increase and change at short notice. You should be alert to local variations, take a precautionary approach and be ready to comply with local authorities. You should also ensure that you have your ID /passport with you. Before travelling to another province you should check with your travel provider and/or accommodation what requirements are in place, both where you are travelling to and on return. Mask wearing is compulsory in public settings. Those not wearing masks may be liable to spot fines.
Hanoi
From 6am on 21 September Hanoi will relax some of its COVID-19 prevention and control measures. Travel passes will no longer be required within Hanoi and a wider variety of shops and services are allowed to operate until 9pm, including food takeaway and delivery.. Social distancing rules remain in place and you should follow these strictly. The rules include but are not limited to:
You should remain 2 metres from others, wear a mask and follow hand-washing guidelines
Offices to have no more than 50% of staff present
a ban on gatherings of more than 10 people outside of schools, offices and hospitals
a suspension of public transportation including taxis and motorcycle taxis
Hanoi authorities have deployed checkpoints at major gateways into Hanoi where officials will check temperatures and collect health declarations for those entering Hanoi. All those arriving in Hanoi from Ho Chi Minh City or areas with COVID-19 outbreaks must provide a negative COVID-19 PCR test taken within 72 hours and go to quarantine facilities for 14 days.
Ho Chi Minh City
Current restrictions in most areas of Ho Chi Minh City, including the imposed curfew from 6pm to 6am each day, will last until at least the end of September. Public transportation including taxis and motorcycle taxis remain suspended apart from travel for emergency medical care and to Tan Son Nhat airport.
You should talk to your landlord or local ward authorities for details as to what restrictions are in place, as these may differ according to your ward.
In general, Ho Chi Minh City requires all residents to remain in their homes unless they are travelling to the airport to leave Vietnam; have a serious medical emergency; or need to have a PCR test. Some low risk ‘green’ zones may allow one member of each household to go to local shops and markets once a week.
Mobile medical stations will be in operation for routine medical assistance. If you have a serious medical emergency you should contact the British Consulate General on +84 (0)28 3825 1380
Supermarkets, convenience stores and chemists are now operating delivery services from 6am to 9pm.Food and beverage services, postal and telecom outlets, stationary and school supply shops, vets, agricultural product support services, and maintenance/ repair services are now allowed to operate from 6am to 6pm. There may be different practices for ordering food, depending on the ward you reside in. Some some wards will distribute essential goods, medical supplies and food through local authorities, working with the military and other voluntary organisations. If in doubt you should seek clarity from your landlord, local ward authorities or local residence group (Tổ dân phố).
Mass COVID-19 testing will be carried out in some areas. A helpline is in operation at 1022 (then press option 2), though callers may need to be patient due to demand. We will update this information with further details of the new restrictions as these are made available to us.
All those returning from Ho Chi Minh City to other provinces in Vietnam will be quarantined in state quarantine facilities for 14 days, be tested 3 times and must monitor their health for 14 days afterwards. Other provinces may also apply quarantine, social distancing measures and curfews at short notice and depending on where you are travelling from. You should check current measures in place at your destination before you travel.
Danang
From 8am on Sunday, 5 September, Da Nang will be divided into red, amber and green zones for lockdown provisions.
Red Zone:
Residents are required not to go out, except for medical needs, including vaccinations and tests.
Food and essential supplies will be delivered to residential units (tổ dân phố).
Amber Zone:
One member of each household can go out to local shops once every 5 days with a travel letter and QR code provided by residential units.
Green Zone:
One member of each household can go to local shops every 5 days with a travel letter and QR code.
Restaurants and shops can provide to-go and online services.
Limited outdoor exercise is allowed in public places from 5am to 7am, in adherence with 2-metre social distancing measures.
For the map of the zones (in Vietnamese only), please visit.
You should talk to your landlord or local ward authorities for details, as these may differ according to your ward.
You can also obtain further advice and assistance from the Danang Visitor Centre hotline on 023 6355 0111 and at the following dedicated English speaking hotlines and email contact points:
District Contact person Phone number Email
Son Tra Dang Cao Ky 0935 994 359 kydc@danang.gov.vn
Ngu Hanh Son Nguyen Thuy Linh 0935 240 791 linhnt13@danang.gov.vn
Hai Chau Nguyen Thi Cam Tu 0913 830 038 tuntc@danang.gov.vn
Thanh Khe & Cam Le Nguyen Thi Phuong Huyen 0934 797 275 huyentp@danang.gov.vn
Lien Chieu & Hoa Vang Nguyen Hong Linh 0905 133 664 linhnh@danang.gov.vn
Other provinces and cities may impose or relax similar curfews and social distancing measures at short notice, so you should monitor local media for updates to regulations.
Lockdown periods may be extended, restrictions may be tightened or relaxed and other provinces and cities may impose or relax similar curfews and social distancing measures at short notice, so you should monitor local regulations for updates.
If in doubt, check with your local authorities to make sure that you are in compliance and to avoid being fined.
We will share any official updates from the central and local governments on our Travel Advice and social media pages.
Healthcare in Vietnam
If you think you have COVID-19 symptoms, you should go immediately to a local doctor or hospital.
For contact details for English speaking doctors, visit our lists of healthcare providers for Hanoi and northern provinces of Vietnam or Ho Chi Minh City and southern provinces of Vietnam.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Vietnam
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Vietnam
We will update this page when the Government of Vietnam announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Vietnamese vaccination programme started in March 2021. Currently approved by the Vietnamese Government for use in Vietnam are the AstraZeneca, Pfizer-BioNTech, Moderna, Janssen (Johnson & Johnson), Sinopharm, Sputnik V, Hayat-Vax and Abdala vaccines.
Depending on vaccine availability Vietnam has approved the combination of vaccines: Moderna and Pfizer and Astra Zeneca and Pfizer.
The Vietnamese authorities have confirmed that foreign residents will be offered vaccines as part of the vaccination programme, in line with Vietnam’s priority groups, if they choose to join the programme. You should also check if your employer has their own vaccination programme and check our social media for updates on vaccination availability.
If you are over 18, you can register for vaccination in Vietnam (website in English and Vietnamese) on the Vietnamese National Vaccine Registration Portal or download the e-health app (in Vietnamese only), after which you will receive instructions on how to register for vaccination. Additionally, you can register offline through your local residence group (Tổ dân phố) who will be involved in organising local vaccinations. Please talk to your landlord, local ward authorities, or local residence group for details, as these may differ according to your ward.
If you are aged above 65 or with underlying health conditions, you may be required to be vaccinated in hospital rather than a non-hospital setting.
If you are a British national aged 18+ living in Vietnam and wish us to pass on your details to the Vietnamese authorities running the vaccination programme, please download and complete this word document.
Return the completed document by attachment, to ConsularEnquiries.Vietnam@fco.gov.uk.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the Gov.UK website COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you are a British national living in Vietnam, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. For information about vaccine eligibility when entering the UK please see information on GOV.UK about testing and quarantine rules.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
