This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Vietnam set and enforce entry rules. For further information contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to. You should also consider checking with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Entry rules in response to coronavirus
Entry to Vietnam
When arriving in Vietnam from overseas you must complete a health declaration and provide evidence of a negative COVID-19 PCR test taken up to 72 hours before arrival. You will have to take a quick (e.g. lateral flow) COVID test on arrival at Hanoi International Airport (Noi Bai) and HCMC International Airport (Tan Son Nhat). If you test positive you will be taken to a centralised quarantine facility for a confirmatory PCR test. If you test positive you can expect to spend several days in the centralised quarantine facility.
If you have been fully vaccinated you must self-isolate for three days, have a test on day 3 and then self-monitor for 14 days. If you are not fully vaccinated or are travelling with unvaccinated children you must self-isolate for 7 days and have tests on days 3 and 7 and then self-monitor for 14 days.
These rules are liable to change. Check with local authorities / your travel operator before you travel. Some airlines are also instructing passengers to have a quick COVID test within 24 hours of their flight and there may be additional requirements for transiting passengers.
Vietnam has suspended visa waivers, issuing of visas and the entry into Vietnam for all foreign nationals. There are a very small number of exceptions for diplomats on official business and certain high-skilled workers. These will be processed on a case by case basis. Such applications are required to be led by Vietnamese employers who must work directly through individual provincial government offices. The requirements and process may differ from province to province. The costs of quarantine, both in government centres and designated hotels, must be paid by those arriving or their employers.
Demonstrating your COVID-19 status
Fully vaccinated visitors to Vietnam with negative COVID-19 test results may be permitted to shorten their period of quarantine on entry at an assigned facility to 7 days, followed by another 7 days of medical surveillance at their residence.
For those who have permission to travel, Vietnam will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 recovery and vaccination record and proof of COVID-19 vaccination issued in the Crown Dependencies. Your final vaccine dose must have been administered at least 14 days prior to travel, and no more than 12 months from the day of entry. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
For further information on entry requirements for those visiting Vietnam, visit the Vietnam Embassy website.
Land borders
Borders with China, Cambodia and Laos are currently closed except for the import and export of goods and returning Vietnamese nationals.
Transiting Vietnam
Currently transit in Vietnam is not allowed.
Data collection
Those arriving in Vietnam are required to provide information about recent travel.
Testing on departure
There is no requirement for testing on departure though anyone who has tested positive previously may be asked to show their negative test results and release certificates and airlines may require a negative test certificate to board.
Visas
If you want to stay in Vietnam, you should only do so legally and with the right visa and permission to stay. Immigration offices may close or travel to them may not be possible due to local COVID-19 measures. You should check before travelling whether the immigration offices where you are remain open and working normally.
Those needing to renew their visas can do so by completing the support request form at https://xuatnhapcanh.gov.vn/ or by telephoning the following number: 0283 920 0365 (ideally with the help of a Vietnamese speaker).
Following the resumption of some commercial international commercial flights, from 15 January 2022 those who entered Vietnam on visa waivers, e-visas or tourist visas from 1 March 2020 will no longer be entitled to an automatic visa extension.
If you now plan to leave Vietnam permanently and entered before 1 March 2020 without undergoing mandatory quarantine or treatment for COVID-19, you should contact your local immigration office in order to apply for your exit visa and pay any overstay fees. Going to the airport without an exit visa will result in you being denied boarding for your flight.
Vietnamese visit visas are issued to foreign nationals for a limited duration and on the basis that visitors must leave on or before the date of expiry. Those who come to Vietnam to work are required to apply for a work visa / permit. You should check the visa validity and conditions carefully. Overstaying your Vietnamese visit visa or working illegally is a serious matter and you may be delayed from travel until a fine is paid, deported and may be prevented from visiting Vietnam in the future.
The Embassy and Consulate General will not be able to assist with individual visit visa extensions should you wish to stay in Vietnam, nor sponsor individual applications or sign NA5 forms (which has the same effect) as this involves legal and financial obligations. For those with a valid work visa or resident cards, you can extend these at immigration offices with the assistance and support of your family or employer.
Passport validity
Your passport should be valid for a minimum of 6 months on the date you enter Vietnam.
A number of British nationals have been refused entry and exit due to their passport being damaged. Make sure your passport is in good condition before arriving in Vietnam. Being refused entry can result in significant cost and a long stay at the airport.
In response to the coronavirus pandemic, the Vietnamese Immigration Department has received assurances from the British Government that any passport held by a British national with an expiry date of 1 January 2020 onwards, or with less than 6 months validity, would be valid until 31 December 2021, when submitted for the purpose of renewing a visa or residence permit. This continues to be valid for all passports held by British nationals. However, because you can renew your passport online, we still recommend that you renew your passport if required.
From 1 November the Visa Application Centres (VACs) in Hanoi, Ho Chi Minh City and Danang will operate from 8:30am – 3pm on Monday, Wednesday and Friday for visa / passport submission and from 1pm – 4pm on Monday, Wednesday and Friday for passport collection.
All those visiting the VACs will be required to:
bring your VFS appointment confirmation
wear a mask, use hand sanitiser and have your body temperature checked by the building’s staff/security guards before entering the VACs
For further information on health and safety protocols when visiting VFS, visit the VFSglobal website.
Quarantine requirements on arrival
Quarantine is mandatory for anyone coming to Vietnam or who may have come in to contact with coronavirus inside. Vietnamese government quarantine centres are basic. Most do not meet Public Health England standards. There are provisions for people who are exceptionally allowed to enter the country for work to be allowed to undertake quarantine in a hotel approved by the Ministry of Health. This is not guaranteed, is time consuming and must be arranged by your employer in Vietnam before you enter Vietnam.
The Vietnamese government has confirmed that anyone entering Vietnam from 1 September 2020 must pay for quarantine costs both in government centres and in designated hotels. You will also be responsible for paying for any coronavirus hospital treatment costs.
Vietnam’s quarantine requirements are mandated by the Vietnamese Ministry of Health. The British Embassy and Consulate General are unable to intervene in having these requirements waived, shortened or changed or assist in the reservation of, or transfer to, hotels used for quarantine. Violations carry strict penalties.
You should expect to go into quarantine for at least 14 days. Fully vaccinated visitors may be permitted to leave after 7 days with a further 7 days at a place of residence. Quarantine will be longer if you test positive at any point. If you test positive, you should expect to be treated in a Vietnamese hospital. Asymptomatic patients may be discharged from hospital after 10 days and have 2 back to back negative COVID-19 tests. Once discharged you will be expected to undertake a period of self-isolation for 14 days and should follow the instructions issued by the local authorities. You should expect to be tested at least 3 times prior to release, and will be required to produce at least 2 consecutive negative tests during quarantine and may require further negative tests during self-isolation.
Once you have completed quarantine and self-isolation you should receive a document specifying this. You should keep this, as you may need to present it customs/airport officials when you leave Vietnam.
For information on self-isolation and quarantine measures if you come into contact with COVID-19 whilst in Vietnam please see the Coronavirus page.
Regular entry requirements
Registration
When checking into a hotel, you’ll have to hand over your passport so that the hotel can register your presence with the local police. Make sure your passport is returned and keep it in a safe place. Don’t use your passport as a deposit for renting a hotel room. If you are staying in private accommodation, you will still be expected to register. Ask your host to help you with this as soon as you arrive. You may be fined if you don’t register.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents are accepted for entry, airside transit and exit from Vietnam. Please contact the nearest Vietnamese Embassy to obtain an appropriate visa before travel. If your ETD has been issued in Vietnam, to replace a lost/stolen passport, you will need an exit visa from the Vietnam Immigration Department before you can travel out of Vietnam. This process normally takes 5 working days. Contact the Immigration Department directly for further information.
