At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Coronavirus
There is an ongoing outbreak of coronavirus (COVID-19). The virus originated in China but cases have been confirmed in other countries, including in Vietnam.
The Vietnamese authorities continue to impose various travel restrictions and quarantine measures as part of their attempts to prevent the spread of coronavirus in Vietnam. The number of foreign nationals taken in to quarantine after arriving on flights with confirmed or possible cases of coronavirus has increased.
There is a high risk for British nationals of being put into 14 days of quarantine, either on arrival or during your trip to Vietnam, regardless of your route. Vietnamese quarantine centres are safe but basic, and not guaranteed to meet Public Health England standards. There is also a risk of British Nationals being turned away from, or asked to leave, hotels in Vietnam. You are at risk of being put into quarantine or instructed to self-isolate for 14 days even after you have arrived in Vietnam, if you either develop flu-like symptoms, or it is suspected you have been in contact with some who has tested for coronavirus.
There are also increased restrictions on British nationals wishing to visit Vietnam. From 12 March 2020 Vietnam has suspended its visa waiver programme for British nationals. There are reports that e-visas have also been suspended and the Vietnamese embassy in London will not be processing visa applications until further notice. The Vietnamese embassy in London say that it is possible to get a visa, but there is uncertainty around the replacement process and timeline for such applications.
You are strongly advised to familiarise themselves with these risks before travelling.
The Vietnamese authorities have also announced travel restrictions and quarantine requirements:
From 12 noon on 15 March, anynyone who has visited the UK, any one of the Schengen countries, China, Iran, Italy or Daegu city and Gyeongsangbuk province in South Korea in the previous 14 days will be refused entry to Vietnam. The only exceptions will be people with specific agreement travelling on official government business.
Flights from South Korea are being diverted to alternative airports, some a considerable distance away from the scheduled place of entry in to Vietnam.
There is a high risk of further restrictions implemented at short notice.
The Vietnamese government has recommended that citizens wear masks in public, and it has introduced special permits for anyone seeking to organise large public events.
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available on the TravelHealthPro website.
You can find more information about case in Vietnam on the TravelHealthPro website.
Medication
If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines.
If you’re taking prescription medication into Vietnam, carry it in your hand-luggage with a copy of the prescription. If it has a total import value greater than US$100, you should declare it at customs. Some specific medicines can be hard to find in Vietnam and many medications on sale are counterfeit.
Vietnam has restrictions on medicines which it classifies as “addictive” or “psychotropic” medicine. These include medicine that can be used for the treatment of addiction, to treat anxiety, depression, insomnia and other conditions. The rules say that you must not have more than the quantity prescribed by a doctor for 7 days (addictive medicine) or 10 days (psychotropic medicine). The prescription should be in English or Vietnamese and include your name and age and list the name, volume and dosage of the medicine(s). It must also include the doctor’s signature or address. If you’re unsure if your medication falls within these categories or if you need to bring in more medication than is usually allowed you should contact the Vietnamese Embassy in advance of travelling.
Medical treatment
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 115 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
Healthcare in the cities is adequate for minor injuries. More complicated treatment may require evacuation to another country. Healthcare in rural areas is extremely basic. Many hospitals require guarantees of payment before they’ll start treatment. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation. Complete the next of kin details in the back of your passport.
Air quality
High levels of air pollution, up to and including hazardous levels, occur in Vietnam particularly in the biggest cities and may aggravate heart, lung or respiratory conditions. Children, the elderly and those with pre-existing medical conditions may be especially affected. You can find advice on air quality and possible mitigation on the World Health Organization (WHO) website. You can check air quality levels for some cities in Vietnam in real time on the World Air Quality Index website.
Health risks
Some rice wines sold without recognised brand names have been found to have very high and sometimes fatal levels of methanol.
UK health authorities have classified Vietnam as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For information and advice about the risks associated with Zika virus, visit the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
Dengue fever is prevalent in the summer/wetter months. The majority of cases are in southern Vietnam, but there were higher than normal infections in Northern Vietnam, in particular Hanoi, in 2017 and sensible precautions taken throughout the country. You should follow the advice of the National Travel Health Network and Centre and take precautions to avoid being bitten by mosquitoes.
Further mosquito borne viruses such as malaria and Japanese encephalitis occur in Vietnam particularly in the rainy season. Take precautions to avoid being bitten by mosquitoes.
There have been outbreaks of Avian Influenza (Bird Flu) in Vietnam but the risk to humans is low. Risks can be mitigated by avoiding visiting live animal markets, poultry farms and other places where you may come into close contact with domestic, caged or wild birds, and making sure poultry and egg dishes are thoroughly cooked.
