You should follow the instructions of local authorities. There are penalties for non-compliance.
Penalties for possession, distribution or manufacture of drugs can be severe. Anyone found in possession of even a small amount of drugs can face the death sentence.
Illegal drugs are often tampered with or spiked and can be much stronger than in Europe. There were seven deaths at a music festival in Hanoi in 2018 connected to illegal drugs. A number of British nationals in Vietnam have suffered severe psychiatric problems because of drug use. Don’t take illegal drugs.
Crimes like sex offences can attract very long prison terms, or a death sentence. The Vietnamese legal system is not well developed and the standard of prisons is very poor.
Reporting a crime to the police can be a long and difficult process. You should consider taking a Vietnamese-speaking person with you to assist with the translation. You will usually be required to sign documents in Vietnamese. You should take care to only sign documents that you are confident have been translated accurately.
Foreign nationals subject to criminal investigations can legally be detained for long periods prior to evidence being presented. There can be long delays before contact is allowed with legal advice, British Consular officials or family. Legal representation is also far below the standard you can expect in the UK.
Foreign nationals involved in traffic accidents have been stopped from leaving Vietnam subject to police investigations being completed. This process can take a long time and foreign nationals have been asked to agree out of court financial settlements. British nationals in such situations are advised to seek professional legal advice and representation.
Vietnamese law requires everyone to carry photographic ID at all times. You should carry a photocopy of the pages from your passport with your personal details and visa for ID, and leave the original document in a safe place.
When entering religious or cultural sites respect local customs and dress in appropriate clothing.
Vietnam is a generally tolerant and progressive place for LGBT travellers. Same-sex relationships are not criminalised by law and changing gender is recognised by Vietnam’s Civil Code. Vietnam abolished a ban on same-sex marriage in 2015, although same-sex couples are neither recognised nor protected by law. In parts of society LGBT rights and issues are still more tolerated than accepted, but Vietnamese society has become significantly more tolerant in recent years. See our information and advice page for the LGBT community before you travel.
It’s illegal to buy, sell, kill or collect protected wild animal or plants. Vietnam is a signatory to the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES). Those caught buying or trafficking these items could be prosecuted and receive lengthy prison sentences or fines.
Never take photographs near military installations.
There are restrictions on internet use, which can affect access to social media websites.
