Coronavirus guidance is being updated.
Read the Prime Minister’s statement for the latest information.

There are still – albeit limited – commercial options to return to the UK from Vietnam.
If you live in the UK and are currently visiting Vietnam, you’re strongly advised to return now by commercial means. While some international flights remain, these cannot be fully guaranteed. Don’t run the risk of getting stranded.
UK special charter flights will only operate for priority countries where commercial flights are not possible. You should not assume that these flights will become available in Vietnam.
International flights
There are a small number of scheduled flight options per week from Vietnam to regional transit hubs with viable connecting flights to the UK. These flights are, currently, from Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh City to Incheon, South Korea by Korean Air, Asiana Airlines and Vietnam Airlines and from Ho Chi Minh City to Hong Kong by Cathay Pacific and Dragon Air. There are some restrictions on airside transit which you should check in advance to ensure you can transit. For transit via Korea, there is a 24 hour transit restriction at Incheon airport. You are advised to make sure your connecting flight is within this period VietJet has flights to Incheon but these flights do not have airside transit facilities and anyone travelling with VietJet would be subject to 14 days quarantine on arrival in Korea.
For Hong Kong, airside transit can be allowed for connecting flights to the UK if your flight itinerary is contained in a single booking and if transit is no more than 24 hours.
Please note that, due to COVID, flights and transit arrangements are still prone to changes with little notice. Please check with the airlines and/or travel agents for up to date information on flight times and travel requirements, particularly transit times, visa and transit visa requirements.
You should subscribe to email alerts for our Travel Advice updates for “one-off” commercial flights that might become available.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
If you need to travel from Vietnam, we may be able to issue an Emergency Travel Document (ETD). Information on how to apply can be found at:
http://www.gov.uk/emergency-travel-document
UK Emergency Travel Documents are accepted for entry, airside transit and exit from Vietnam. Please contact the nearest Vietnamese Embassy to obtain an appropriate visa before travel. If your ETD has been issued in Vietnam, to replace a lost/stolen passport, you will need an exit visa from the Vietnam Immigration Department before you can travel out of Vietnam. This process normally takes 5 working days. Contact the Immigration Department directly for further information.
Travelling to the airport
Taxis or private hire cars are available as normal to take you to international airports in Vietnam.
Accessing departure airports
Internal flight routes have resumed.
Your journey home: re-entering the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK. You:
need to provide your journey and contact details up to 48 hours before you’re due to arrive in the UK
are not allowed to leave the place you’re staying for the first 14 days you’re in the UK except in very limited situations (known as ‘self-isolating’)
See also the list of people who are exempt from the border rules.
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) also provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British Embassy in Hanoi on +84 (0) 24 3936 0500 or the British Consulate General in Ho Chi Minh City on +84 (0) 28 3825 1380.
The Embassy and Consulate cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone.
Further information
Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British Embassy on Twitter and Facebook.
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
