This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Vietnam as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Vietnam to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Vietnam
Local measures
On 7 May, the Vietnamese Prime Minister announced the further relaxation of COVID-19 restrictions. The principles of social distancing remain including people being required to wear masks outside offices and schools. With the exception of some museums and karaoke bars, shops,services and schools are open as normal.
Travel within Vietnam is back to normal, although there are a small number of health checks entering some provinces. Larger gatherings, such as sports and religious events are now allowed subject to preventative measures being applied.
Internal flights are operating as normal.
You should be alert to local variations in implementation of social distancing, take a precautionary approach and be ready to comply with local authorities.
Quarantine and testing
Widespread quarantine requirements are in place for anyone who may have come in to contact with coronavirus. The Vietnamese government has confirmed that it will cover quarantine costs, but foreign nationals will be personally responsible for paying for any coronavirus hospital treatment costs, and hotel costs from periods of self-isolation.
Vietnamese quarantine centres are basic, and most do not meet Public Health England standards.
If you come in to contact with someone who has tested positive for coronavirus you must expect to undergo quarantine in a government centre. It lasts a minimum of 14 days and longer if you test positive at any point. In addition, if you test positive, you will be treated in a Vietnamese hospital, following which you will be expected to undertake a period of self-isolation. You should expect to be tested at least 5 times prior to release, and will be required to produce 3 consecutive negative tests during quarantine and a further two consecutive negative tests during self-isolation.
Once you have completed quarantine and self-isolation you should receive a document specifying this. You should keep this, as you may need to present it customs/airport officials when you leave Vietnam.
Vietnam’s quarantine requirements are mandated by the Vietnamese Ministry of Health. The British Embassy and Consulate General are unable to intervene in having these requirements waived, shortened or changed. Violations carry strict penalties. Should you have any reservations about undertaking quarantine in Vietnam, if required for health or other reasons, you are strongly advised to return to the UK as soon as possible.
Vietnam is increasingly using community testing as a means to provide assurance that COVID-19 is not being transmitted undetected. Should you be asked to undertake testing, you should comply. Failure to comply can be an offence with significant punishments.
You are strongly advised to familiarise yourself with these risks before travelling.
Accommodation
When there were cases of COVID-19 in the community, there were some instances of British nationals being turned away from, or asked to leave, hotels in Vietnam.
Visas
In a very small number of exceptional cases, the Vietnamese authorities may be prepared to consider extending visit visas. This often requires agents who are prepared to act as sponsors, including taking some legal and financial responsibility, for the people applying for visa extensions. The British Embassy cannot dictate the prices such agents charge for their commercial services.
Vietnamese authorities have shown flexibility in extending visit visas (or visa waivers) for people who have been stranded and physically unable to leave Vietnam due to the COVID-19 situation (e.g. hospitalisation or being in quarantine), and who are returning imminently to the UK. If you meet these criteria, the Embassy and Consulate General willassist you.
The Embassy and Consulate General will not be able to assist with individual visit visa extensions should you wish to stay in Vietnam, nor sponsor individual applications or sign NA5 forms (which has the same effect) as this involves legal and financial obligations.
The British Government has agreed with the Vietnamese Immigration Department that any passport held by a British national with an expiry date of 1 January 2020 onwards, or with less than 6 months validity, will now be recognised as expiring on 31 December 2021 when submitted for the purpose of renewing a visa or residence permit. See Recognition of extended expiry of passports.
Health
For contact details for English speaking doctors, visit our lists of healthcare providers for Hanoi and northern provinces of Vietnam or Ho Chi Minh City and southern provinces of Vietnam.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Vietnam
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
