Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

Coronavirus: stay up to date
Cases of coronavirus (COVID-19) have been confirmed in Vietnam. See information on measures introduced in Vietnam to limit the spread of the virus. Find out how to return to the UK from Vietnam.
See coronavirus travel advice for guidance on international travel.
Sign up for email alerts for Vietnam travel advice.
Cases of coronavirus (COVID-19) have been confirmed in Vietnam. The Vietnamese authorities have introduced a large number of measures to limit the spread of the virus, including banning the entry of foreigners. There is also an extension of the partial lockdown until 22 April in 12 localities in Vietnam including Hanoi, Ho Chi Minh City and Danang. Movement between, and within, cities across the country is not encouraged, is very difficult and should be avoided. Penalties are being imposed for non-compliance with these measures. For more information, see Coronavirus
If you are visiting Vietnam and intend to return to the UK, you are strongly advised to return now. There are still flights via Incheon, South Korea. See Return to the UK
Some staff and dependants in the British Embassy have been withdrawn from Vietnam for the foreseeable future. Core staff remain to continue critical work, including consular assistance.
High levels of air pollution, up to and including hazardous levels, occur in Vietnam particularly in the biggest cities and may aggravate heart, lung or respiratory conditions. See Health
Most visits to Vietnam are trouble-free, but you should take sensible precautions to protect yourself and your belongings in big cities and tourist areas. See Crime
Travelling by motorbikes in Vietnam carries significant risk. There are frequent road traffic accidents and fatal crashes. Before choosing to ride a motorbike in Vietnam, it is essential that you’re an experienced motorbike rider, have a good quality motorbike helmet, have the correct licence(s), understand the roads on which you plan to travel and that your travel insurance covers your planned activity. See Road travel
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Vietnam, attacks can’t be ruled out. See Terrorism
Vietnamese law requires everyone to carry photographic ID at all times. See Local laws and customs
UK health authorities have classified Vietnam as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For information and advice about the risks associated with Zika virus, visit the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
You can contact the emergency services by calling 113 (police), 115 (ambulance) or 114 (fire).
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.
The Overseas Business Risk service offers information and advice for British companies operating overseas on how to manage political, economic, and business security-related risks.
Take out comprehensive travel and medical insurance before you travel.
