Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Greece on the TravelHealthPro website.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do in order to enter Greece.
Wearing a mask
At present, it is mandatory to wear a mask in all public places (both indoors and outdoors), in all areas of Greece.
National measures and restrictions (‘lock-down’)
The Greek authorities have implemented tough measures to help combat the spread of COVID-19.
There are specific measures in place in the cities of Athens (and surrounding Attica region); and in Thessaloniki and Chalkidiki.
The rest of Greece is split into a number of categories, with different levels of measures applying in different categories. These categories are: amber areas; red areas; and areas of heightened concern.
All measures remain under regular review: you should keep up-to-date by checking this page regularly, and following local announcements.
List of areas in each category of anti-COVID-19 measures
(Athens; Thessaloniki and Chalkidiki: specific measures apply)
Amber category:
All areas of Greece not listed below (besides Athens; Thessaloniki and Chalkidiki, where specific measures apply)
Red category:
Rethymo, Crete;
Pydna-Kolindros, municipality of Pierria;
Andravida Kilinis, municipality of Ilia;
Tembi, municipality of Larissa;
Distia Roma settlement, Kimi-Alivery municipality;
Thiva and Tanagra municipalities of Voiotia;
Rethymnon Region (Crete)
Karpathos municipality (Dodecanese)
Nafplion Municipality
Areas of heightened concern:
Halkida municipality in Evia;
the island of Mykonos;
Patras municipality, Achaia;
Achaia Region
Evia Region (with the exception of Skyros island)
Kordelio-Evosmos;
Kalymnos municipality (Dodecanese).
Arcadia Region (Peloponnese).
Athens and Attica: measures in effect
(All measures that apply in amber, red and areas of special concern also apply - unless a difference is noted below, e.g. on curfews);
Curfew in operation: from 9pm to 5am on weekdays, and from 6pm to 5am on weekends;
Operation of any school/ educational service which cannot be delivered online is suspended, including Day Care facilities and preschools;
Outdoor markets are suspended at weekends;
Those retail outlets which remain open (supermarkets, pharmacies, bakeries, pet shops, dry cleaners, stores relating to telephone services and petrol stations) may operate only between certain hours (07:30 - 20:30 on weekdays; 07:00 to 20:30 on Saturdays; 07:00 to 17:30 on Sundays);.
( Food delivery and take away services remain in operation;).
Churches can hold services but without the presence of worshippers (except for weddings, baptisms and funerals, where up to 9 persons may attend);
Public transport is limited to operations at 65% of normal capacity, except for ferries, which are limited to 50% of normal capacity);
Movement between neighbourhoods within Attica is permitted subject to the certification system outlined below:
Movement into or out of Attica region is not permitted except for the following reasons:
To go to and from work, with necessary documents;.
For health reasons;.
To return to place of main residence;.
For students returning to their place of study if this is where they currently live;.
For attending a funeral with the proper documents;.
For children of divorced families with parental visiting rights in another region;.
To attend to agricultural work.
Additionally please note:
Public sector services will operate only by appointment and will operate with the absolute minimum number of employees;
KTEO and car service will operate only by pre-made appointment;
Parents with children up to third year in secondary school can opt to work fulltime online, work different hours, work less hours, up 25%, suspend employment with three days excused absence and one day subsidized by the government.
Thessaloniki and Chalkidiki: measures in effect
All measures that apply in amber, red and areas of special concern also apply - unless a difference is noted below, e.g. on curfews;
Curfew in operation: from 9pm to 5am on weekdays, and from 6pm to 5am on weekends;
Retail stores remain in operation only by ‘click away’ methods;
Limits on the opening hours of those retail stores which remain open (on weekdays, ‘click away’ retail, hairdressers, barbers, pharmacies, petrol stations, supermarkets, bakeries will be permitted to open only from 7am – 8pm; on weekends, they are permitted to open only from 7am to 5pm- except for hairdressers and barbers, and ‘click away’ retailers, who must close).
Schools remain open except for lyceums (‘likeia’) which, like universities, must operate via online teaching only;
Outdoor markets will not operate on weekends.
Amber category; measures in effect:
obligatory use of facemasks in all indoor and outdoor public and communal spaces, including work-places and on public transport;
curfew in place from 9pm to 5am;
a ban on non-essential movements outside of your home or accommodation (essential movements are defined according to the list below, or for work-related reasons - in which case your employer must provide you with certification of your requirement to travel);
obligatory certification of any essential movements, either by completion of a self-written note, by using the online form provided by the Greek authorities, or by use of the Greek authorities’ free SMS service (only available from Greek mobile numbers). For more detail on the information required under each of these methods of certification, see below). You must be able to show certification to the authorities when requested;
Primary schools, middle schools, and high schools are open; universities are running, but via online teaching only;
Open air food markets remain open; but their operations are restricted to 50% of usual stalls, and subject to 5 metres minimum distance between stalls;
Shops are generally open; but shopping and the use of all retail services must be notified using the certification procedures referenced above (detail on how to certify a movement below); and shopping is permitted for a maximum of 2 hours per day;
game hunting and fishing is forbidden;
restricted numbers are in place for churches and religious services;
a ban on travel between different parts of Greece, except for essential reasons. You should not leave the region (‘nomos’/ ‘νόμος’) of your residence or accommodation, except for permitted, exceptional reasons (acceptable reasons include returning to your residence or accommodation address; for family reunification reasons; for health emergencies; for essential business reasons- in which case your employer must provide you with certification that your travel is essential);
closure of all land borders to all non-essential travel, except for the border with Bulgaria, which remains open at the Promachonas crossing point. (For the purposes of cross border travel, the Greek authorities define essential travel as movement by Greek citizens, permanent residents of Greece (anyone in those 2 categories who is returning to Greece), transport workers and anyone travelling for essential professional reasons (anyone in those categories who needs to travel in either direction for professional reasons));
all arrivals by sea by private yachts, cruise ships, ferries and any other professional tourist ships are prohibited;
Additional requirements for anyone travelling to or from Greece by air, or travelling into Greece via land borders (for details on these requirements, see Entry Requirements);
Limits on the number of persons permitted to travel in taxi or a private vehicle (either: driver and 2 additional passengers; driver and his/her children (regardless of the total number of children); driver and 1 patient and 1 carer, in case of medical emergencies or the transfer of a disabled person)
Red category: measures in effect
(All measures already in effect in amber zones; and also the following additional measures);
curfew from 6pm (three hours earlier than in amber zones) until 5am the following morning;
employees who need to go to work will need special permits issued by their employers;
high schools (including Lyceums/ ‘Likeia’) operate only via online lessons;
the majority of the retail sector will be closed, except for click-and-collect services;
open air markets are banned on weekends;
hair salons, beauticians, and dieticians are open for pre-made appointments only;
no movement outside municipality borders for all but health reasons;
residents are forbidden to leave the area of residence for all but health reasons;
Areas of heightened concern: measures in effect
All measures already in effect in amber and red zones; and also the following additional measures
A ban on the opening of all shops (except supermarkets and pharmacies), including for click-and-collect services; and, also, a ban on the opening of hair salons, beauty salons, dieticians, MoT outlets (KTEO), lottery shops (OPAP);
Religious services are forbidden, and access to religious buildings is restricted;
Public services, including courts and judicial services, are subject to suspension;
All schools, regardless of age group, are restricted to online teaching only (except for primary schools in Mykonos and Thira (Santorini));
Construction and building works are subject to suspension;
Entry and exit from these regions is strictly for work purposes or health reasons only.
Applies throughout Greece:
To certify an essential movement, via 1 of 3 alternative means:
(A) Send a free SMS to 13033. The SMS should be in the form:
X [blank] Name [blank] Surname [blank] Residential address
(Replace X with the number 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 or 6, corresponding to the following reasons:
Going to a pharmacy or visiting a doctor, if this is recommended after contact with them.
Going to an essentials supply store (supermarket, grocery shop), or another retail outlet (permitted for a maximum of 2 hours per day).
Going to the bank, only if the transaction is not possible online.
Going to help people in need (including e.g. driving a family member to work, driving or accompanying a child on their way to or from nursery or school).
Going to a ceremony (e.g. funeral, marriage, baptism) under the conditions provided by law; or moving to a divorced parent or parent who is necessary to ensure the communication of parents and children, in accordance with the regulations.
Physical exercise outdoors or moving with a pet, individually or as a group of up to three people, in the latter case keeping the necessary distance of 1.5 metres. (Physical exercise should be conducted only in the local area around your home or accommodation (i.e. you should not travel any further). Activities including fishing and hunting are explicitly prohibited).
(B) Complete the online form provided by the Greek authorities (available only in English).
(C) Write a handwritten note providing the information below. You should be ready to show this to local authorities who ask for it:
Name and Surname
Home Address
The reason you are going out, according to the list above, and the address of your destination
Date, Time and Signature
Travel in Greece
Travel within Greece is currently restricted, in line with measures outlined above. You should comply with all measures announced by the Greek authorities. The below advice applies to any travel which is permitted within the restrictions currently in place.
You should also note that, as a result of current restrictions on movements, transport services (including flights, intercity buses, trains and ferries) are liable to disruption at the present time.
It is mandatory to wear face masks on public transport (including flights and ferries), at airports and in taxis. Travel in a private car or a taxi is subject to certain restrictions (eg limited to a maximum number of adult passengers per vehicle) according to local measures outlined above.
If you are travelling via ferry, you will need to complete a health questionnaire and hand it to the ferry operator before boarding. The necessary forms will be provided by the operator: you should contact them directly if you need further information. Temperature checks may also be carried out before boarding; and it is obligatory to wear masks on all ferries, including on open air decks, where capacity is limited to allow for social distancing. No celebrations are allowed on board ferries.
If you are travelling by internal (domestic) flights, you are also required to wear masks throughout the journey. Specific measures relating to check-in, baggage allowances and other details are in place to reduce the spread of coronavirus. You should check with your operator directly for further detail.
Changes to what is open or permitted, including international travel options, are subject to change and may occur at short notice. Keep up to date with the latest information and advice from your travel contact or business partners, as well as the sources in this travel advice.
Accommodation
All hotels are permitted to open, and other types of accommodation, including e.g. Airbnb, private rentals and hostels, are also available. However, you should note that many operators are likely to reduce their offer and close some accommodation during the winter months, particularly in light of measures put in place by the Greek authorities to fight the spread of COVID-19. You should check directly with your accommodation provider in case of related concerns.
Healthcare in Greece
If you think you have symptoms, including a fever or respiratory difficulties such as shortness of breath or a cough, you should avoid visiting local health facilities, but contact a doctor remotely to see whether a test is recommended. There is likely to be a cost associated with this, for call out, examination and testing, which you will have to pay.
If you are staying in a hotel or resort, your accommodation provider will have a list of private doctors that they will call to assess your symptoms and conduct a COVID-19 test.
If you have arranged your own accommodation you can find details of English speaking, private doctors on our list of healthcare providers.
If you are tested and the result is positive, the Greek authorities will ask you to quarantine until advised otherwise. You may be able to remain in your existing accommodation, or be required to transfer into a state hospital or other government-provided accommodation. Costs related to transfer to alternative accommodation and treatment at state healthcare facilities will be covered by the Greek Government. The nature of your accommodation may differ from the specifications of your pre-booked hotel, villa or other place of stay. Depending on local arrangements, travellers in groups may be required to stay in separate accommodation (e.g. if a sufficient number of rooms is not available in one venue, your group may be spread across different accommodation locations).
For more information, consult the Greek National Public Health Organisation (NPHO) online or via telephone (dial 1135, or 210 521 2054, from within Greece).
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Greece.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Greece
Wherever possible British nationals should aim to be vaccinated in the country where they live. As further information is available about the national vaccination programme, this page will be updated. Sign up to get email notifications.
The national vaccine programme in Greece has started. The Greek authorities have confirmed that the programme includes British Nationals resident in Greece. You can get more information on the Greek vaccination programme on https://emvolio.gov.gr (currently only available in Greek). You can register online through the website or get help registering at any pharmacy in Greece.
The Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) is the UK authority responsible for assessing the safety, quality and efficacy of vaccines. It has authorised the Pfizer/BioNTech, Oxford/AstraZeneca and Moderna vaccines for temporary supply and use in the UK. Find out more about MHRA approval for these vaccines.
British nationals living overseas should seek medical advice from their local healthcare provider in the country where they reside. Information about vaccines used in other national programmes, including regulatory status, should be available from the local authorities. This list of Stringent Regulatory Authorities recognised by the World Health Organisation may also be a useful source of additional information. Find out more information about the COVID-19 vaccines on the World Health Organization COVID-19 vaccines page.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements. You should contact local authorities for information on testing facilities.
Further information
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
