The information on this page covers the most common types of travel and reflects the UK government’s understanding of the rules currently in place. Unless otherwise stated, this information is for travellers using a full ‘British Citizen’ passport.
The authorities in the country or territory you’re travelling to are responsible for setting and enforcing the rules for entry. If you’re unclear about any aspect of the entry requirements, or you need further reassurance, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
You should also consider checking with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Entry rules in response to coronavirus (COVID-19)
If you’re a British national, you can enter Greece, but you must comply with the Greek authorities’ requirements, including testing before travel and completion of a Passenger Locator Form before you travel (both into and out of Greece). Read this section of the travel advice in full to check how these requirements apply to you.
You must wear a face mask at all times when on an aeroplane, bus, train or ferry travelling to or from Greece; and whilst at airports.
COVID-19 testing requirements
The following measures are in place with respect to travel to Greece:
If travelling by air, land or sea to Greece, and arriving on or after Wednesday 11 November 2020, you must provide evidence of a negative result from a PCR test for COVID-19 that has been conducted within the 72 hour period before your arrival time in Greece. Failure to do so may result in your carrier not allowing you to travel and will likely result in the Greek authorities refusing you permission to enter Greece;
Upon arrival, the Greek authorities may ask you to undergo an additional rapid test for Coronavirus, as a condition of permitting entry. This is in addition to the pre-travel testing requirement set out above. Further detail is provided below under ‘Testing and quarantine on arrival’.
Passenger Locator Form
You must complete an online Passenger Locator Form (PLF) at least 24 hours before your arrival in Greece. From Tuesday 10 November, anyone who is a permanent resident of Greece, or a Greek citizen, must complete the PLF form before departing from Greece, at least 24 hours before their scheduled time of departure. (If you are not a permanent resident of Greece, nor a Greek citizen, you only need to complete a PLF form on your way to Greece, and not on the way out of Greece). The form is in English, and is required whichever way you travel to or from Greece (including by ferry, road, rail or air). Failure to do so in advance may result in your carrier not allowing you to travel, a 500 Euro fine on arrival or the Greek authorities not allowing you to enter or re-enter the country.
Every traveller, including children, must have their details included on a PLF. If you’re travelling with others outside of your household, you should all complete your own form. If you’re travelling together as a household, the Greek authorities ask for you to complete one form with all adults and children included. You can add additional members of your household at the top of the form before you submit.
Some airlines may require individual PLFs for every traveller over the age of 18 within the same household. Check directly with your airline what you will need to show to be allowed boarding. Remember that you will need to complete PLFs at least 24 hours before your flight.
Once you have completed the form, you will receive an email acknowledgement. In a separate email, you will also receive a QR code. This code is likely to be sent up to 24 hours before you travel, regardless of how early you fill in your form. When you receive your code, make sure you either print it, or can show it on your mobile phone.
If you are travelling by air to Greece (and, in cases where you are a permanent resident of Greece or a Greek citizen, also when travelling out of Greece), your airline will ask you to prove that you have completed the PLF form. You should print or show (e.g. on your phone) your email confirming submission of the form (or the QR code you have subsequently received). Failure to do so could result in you being refused boarding to the flight.
If you are travelling by ferry to or from Greece, the ferry operator will ask you to complete an additional form (‘Pre Boarding Information’), alongside your PLF. This additional form will be provided by the ferry operator, either via their website, or at booking offices: you should contact them directly if you need further information. Temperature checks may also be carried out before boarding; and it is obligatory to wear masks on all ferries, where capacity is limited to allow for social distancing.
On arrival in Greece (or, in cases where you are a permanent resident of Greece, or a Greek citizen, prior to departure from Greece), you will need to show your QR code to the Greek authorities. Make sure you have either a printed copy of the code, or can show it on your phone. Failure to provide your PLF form/ QR code will result in a fine or you may be refused entry to Greece.
Testing and quarantine on arrival
When you arrive in Greece, the Greek authorities will scan your QR code and may require you to undergo testing for coronavirus, as part of health screening. (This is in addition to the mandatory pre-travel testing requirements set out above). The Greek authorities’ instructions will differ according to whether you arrive by land, sea or air. Check the requirements that will apply to you on the PLF form page.
Any passenger entering Greece may be asked to undergo a test for COVID-19, but you are more likely to be asked if you have arrived from a country outside of the EU (including the UK), either directly or via indirect flights.
If you are required to take a test on arrival:
The Greek authorities are likely to ask you to quarantine until you are advised otherwise. You may be required to move to government-provided accommodation until your test result is available. If you’re asked to move, the costs of transfer and your new accommodation will be paid by the Greek authorities. The nature of your accommodation may differ from the specifications of your pre-booked hotel, villa or other place of stay. Depending on local arrangements and capacity, travellers in groups may be required to stay in separate accommodation
If your test result is negative, the Greek authorities will inform you, and you will be free to move to your pre-booked accommodation, unless the authorities have other reasons to require you to continue your quarantine. For example, if you have tested negative but contact tracing suggests you have been in proximity to someone else who has tested positive, you may be asked to continue quarantining for a further period (likely to be 14 days; or, with the agreement of the authorities, 8-10 days followed by certification by a medical professional that you are free of COVID-19 (you may be required to pay any costs related to medical treatment/ certification)). Following completion of any quarantine, you should continue to follow all coronavirus-prevention guidance from the local authorities, including on social distancing.
If your test result is positive, the Greek authorities are likely to ask you to quarantine for 14 days, or until the date of your departure from Greece. You may be required to remain in government-provided accommodation for the duration of this self-isolation period.
If you are not required to take a test on arrival, you will not be required to self-isolate.
You must comply with all instructions given by the Greek authorities. Failure to do so may result in you being refused permission to enter Greece and/or legal enforcement.
You should also be aware that if other passengers on your flight subsequently test positive, you may be subject to further quarantine/self isolation requirements. These will be mandatory and you should comply with the Greek authorities’ requirements.
Additional restrictions on entry by air
Greece’s air connections with Turkey and Catalonia (Spain) are currently closed to passenger traffic. Air connections with other countries and regions are liable to suspension or amendment, sometimes at short notice. If you are due to fly to or from Greece, you should contact your airline or operator for the latest information.
Additional restrictions on entry by sea
All arrivals by sea by private yachts, cruise ships, ferries and any other professional tourist ships are currently prohibited;
Additional restrictions on entry by land borders
Greece’s land borders (including those with Albania, North Macedonia and Turkey) are subject to restrictions at the present time. As well as checking the below information, you should refer to the ‘Coronavirus’ pages for details of how local or national measures may affect travel across land borders. The following general restrictions are in place:
Entrants into Greece via land borders are likely to be asked to undergo rapid testing for coronavirus. This is in addition to the requirement to show a negative result from a coronavirus test undertaken within the 72-hour period before their arrival into Greece;
The land border with Bulgaria is open at the Promachonas crossing point, without additional restrictions or timed closures;
From 6am local time on Friday 20 November, the Krystallopigi border crossing with Albania is closed, as part of measures to reduce the spread of coronavirus; the Kakavia border crossing is limited to a maximum of 750 persons permitted to cross into Greece per day- and anyone crossing the border at Kakavia is required to self-isolate for 7 days after arrival; and the Nimfea border crossing is open only to freight and goods vehicles, such as lorries;
All other border crossings are open (for travel permitted within the framework set out by local and national restrictions, as detailed in the ‘Coronavirus’ pages); but operating with reduced hours. They are shut down each night between 11pm and 7am. Outside these hours, you may cross into Greece via these border points only for essential reasons;
From Wednesday 11 November, in line with new requirements, anyone arriving at any of the above entry points must prove they have completed a Passenger Locator Form prior to arrival in Greece; and will also require proof of a negative COVID test result. The test must have been undertaken within the 72 hour period before your time of arrival into Greece.
Monitor official information from the Greek authorities on any changes to border arrangements.
Regular entry requirements
Visas
If you hold a British Citizen passport, you don’t need a visa to enter Greece. If you’re planning a stay of longer than 3 months, see our Living in Greece guide and contact the Greek Embassy if you have further questions.
The rules on travel will stay the same until 31 December 2020.
Visas from 1 January 2021
The rules for travelling or working in Europe will change from 1 January 2021:
you will be able to travel to countries in the Schengen area for up to 90 days in any 180-day period without a visa as a tourist, to visit family or friends, to attend business meetings, cultural or sports events, or for short-term studies or training
if you are travelling to Greece and other Schengen countries without a visa, make sure your whole visit is within the limit. Visits to Schengen countries within the previous 180 days before you travel would count towards the 90-day limit
To stay for longer, to work or study, for business or for other reasons, you will need to meet the entry requirements set out by Greece. This could mean applying for a visa and/or work permit. You should check with the Greek Embassy what type of visa and/or work permit, if any, you will need.
if you are in Greece with a visa or permit, your stay will not count towards the 90-day limit.
The 90-day limit for visa-free travel will begin on 1 January 2021. Any days you stay in Greece or other Schengen countries before 1 January 2021 will not count towards the 90-day limit.
At border control for Greece, you may need to:
show a return or onward ticket
show you have enough money for your stay, and
use separate lanes from EU, EEA and Swiss citizens when queuing
Your passport may be stamped on entry and exit.
Passport validity
The rules on travel will stay the same until 31 December 2020.
Your passport should be valid for the proposed duration of your stay; you don’t need any additional period of validity on your passport beyond this.
Passport validity from 1 January 2021
From 1 January 2021, you must have at least 6 months left on an adult or child passport to travel to most countries in Europe (not including Ireland).
If you renewed your current passport before the previous one expired, extra months may have been added to its expiry date. Any extra months on your passport over 10 years may not count towards the 6 months needed.
Check your passport is valid for travel before you book your trip. You will need to renew your passport before travelling if you do not have enough time left on your passport.
Travelling with medication
According to Greek law, a visitor can bring up to 5 different prescribed medicines for personal use, with a maximum of 2 boxes of each medicine.
Some prescribed and over-the-counter medicines available in the UK, including medication containing codeine, are considered controlled substances in Greece. A doctor’s prescription is required in all cases, which should mention your details, the types of medicine and the condition treated. On arrival, Greek Customs may in some cases require you to obtain permission from the Greek National Organisation of Medicines - if you need to carry more than the permitted number of boxes, for example. The National Organisation of Medicines examines these requests on a case by case basis.
For more information on controlled medicines, contact the Greek National Organisation of Medicines (telephone: 0030 213 2040 285 / 307 / 225, open Monday to Friday, 12pm to 3pm Greece time, or email: relation@eof.gr).
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents are valid for entry, airside transit and exit from Greece.
