Earthquakes
Greece can experience earthquakes and earth tremors. You should familiarise yourself with safety procedures in the event of an earthquake and follow advice given by the local authorities. The Greek General Secretariat for Civil Protection website has advice about what to do before, during and after an earthquake, and issues announcements about ongoing incidents.
Forest fires
Forest fires often occur during the summer months across Greece due to the dry/hot weather. In the case of wildfires, the situation on the ground can change quickly, so you should stay up to date with official advice and alerts by subscribing to the Civil Protection’s SMS or email service, or via “112 Greece” on twitter (to translate to English, click on the tweet and press ‘Translate Tweet’). The Civil Protection Authority publishes a daily map during the high risk period detailing fire risk by area (1= low risk to 5= Emergency).
Forest fires are highly dangerous and unpredictable. Take care when visiting or driving through woodland areas. Make sure cigarette ends are properly extinguished, and don’t light barbecues. Causing a forest fire is treated as a criminal offence in Greece even if unintentional. If you see a forest fire, call the emergency services on 112.
Forest fires can also cause travel disruption in wider areas. You should monitor local and international weather updates from the Greek Meteorological Service or European Meteorological Services, follow the advice of local authorities at all times and check with your travel provider for travel updates.
For further information on the risk of forest fires, visit the Civil Protection website. For severe weather warnings, visit the European Meteorological Services website.
Weather
You can register on the Greek government’s Emergency Communication Service to receive emergency alerts.
Localised or severe weather extremes can affect areas of Greece over the extended summer period and this can at times cause travel disruption. You should monitor local and international weather updates from the Greek Meteorological Service or European Meteorological Services website and check with your travel provider if necessary. You should follow the advice of local authorities at all times.
