Coronavirus guidance is being updated.
Read the Prime Minister’s statement for the latest information.

There are commercial options to return to the UK from Greece, transiting in other countries.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK.
For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Flights
Direct commercial flights between the UK and Greece (in both directions) are currently suspended.
It is possible to travel indirectly between Greece and the UK (and vice versa). Airline schedules have recently increased: journeys with short layovers are typically available every day of the week. Options include travelling via Frankfurt (with Lufthansa), Munich (Lufthansa), Paris (Air France) and Zurich (Swiss). You should check travel advice for any country you plan to transit through. You should contact airlines or travel operators directly for more information.
If you’re trying to get back to the UK and need financial help, see the FCO’s guide on financial assistance.
Travelling to the airport
Public transport is operating normally in Greece. You should try to avoid using public transport during morning and evening rush hours, when key workers are more likely to travel.
Taxis are permitted to operate, but may carry only two passengers, except for in cases of an adult accompanying children, or a companion accompanying another passenger for medical reasons. Passengers must wear facemasks.
When travelling in a private car, only two passengers are permitted, in addition to the driver.
If you are travelling via ferry, you will need to complete a health questionnaire and hand it to the ferry operator before boarding. The necessary forms will be provided by the operator: you should contact them directly if you need further information. Temperature checks may also be carried out before boarding; and it is obligatory to wear masks on all ferries, whose capacity is limited to allow for social distancing.
If you are travelling by internal (domestic) flights, you are also required to wear masks throughout the journey. Specific measures relating to check-in, baggage allowances and other details are in place to reduce the spread of coronavirus. You should check with your operator directly for further detail.
Road, rail and ferry travel
Travel between the UK and Greece by road, rail or ferry is likely to be difficult at this time.
Ferry services between Greece and Italy, and Greece and Albania, may be disrupted, or affected by reduced schedules. You should check directly with operators in advance of travel.
Greece’s borders with most neighbouring countries (Turkey, Albania and North Macedonia) are closed to passenger traffic. The border with Bulgaria is open.
Albania, Bulgaria, Italy, North Macedonia, Turkey have also introduced restrictions, including closing land borders, restricting entry to only citizens and permanent residents, and suspending rail and ferry links. Check FCO Travel Advice pages for details if you are planning to travel via these countries, and speak to your travel operator in case of disruption. ##Your journey home: re-entering the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK. You:
need to provide your journey and contact details up to 48 hours before you’re due to arrive in the UK
are not allowed to leave the place you’re staying for the first 14 days you’re in the UK except in very limited situations (known as ‘self-isolating’)
See also the list of people who are exempt from the border rules.
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) also provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British Embassy in Athens on +30 210 727 2600 (available 24/7). Alternatively, email us using our web form.
The Embassy cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone. Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British Embassy on Twitter and Facebook.
If you cannot leave Greece
If you cannot leave Greece at this time, see advice on staying in Greece during coronavirus.
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
