

Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Greece
Terrorists are likely to try to carry out attacks in Greece.
Attacks could be indiscriminate, including in places visited by foreign nationals.
There have been several attacks involving explosives and automatic weapons against Greek institutions, shopping malls, banks, media offices, diplomatic premises and the police.
Protests and demonstrations
Political protests
Greek authorities have increased security at some prominent locations, including tourist sites, due to events in Israel and the Occupied Palestinian Territories.
There is currently a heightened risk of such protests, particularly in central Athens.
Stay aware of your surroundings, stay away from protests and follow the advice of local authorities.  
Strikes and demonstrations
There are regular strikes, sometimes called at short notice, that can cause disruption to buses, trains, ferries and air travel, as well as road networks and borders. 
Demonstrations often take place around major squares in central Athens, in particular Syntagma Square. Political demonstrations may take place on certain dates: 
1 May (Labour Day)
17 November (anniversary of when student protests against a military dictatorship were put down violently – ‘Polytechnio’)
6 December (anniversary of the shooting of 15-year-old student Alexandros Grigoropoulos)
Some demonstrations in the past have turned violent. Avoid demonstrations wherever possible and move away to the last known safe place. Security forces often use tear gas to break up demonstrations, which can harm your breathing and vision.
Crime
Protecting your belongings
Thefts of passports, wallets and handbags are common on the metro and in crowded tourist places, particularly in central Athens. Carry your valuables in different bags and pockets and keep a copy of your passport photo page somewhere safe.
When driving on holiday, keep your valuables out of sight and lock your vehicle at all times. Always park in a well-lit area or secure car park. Be alert to car crime.
Sexual assault
To reduce your personal risk, especially late at night and around clubs and bars: 
save the location of your accommodation on your maps app, so it’s easier to find at the end of the night
set up a WhatsApp group to keep in touch with others in your group
keep an eye on each other’s drinks to make sure they do not get spiked
do not let a friend walk back to their hotel alone
do not give a drunk person more alcohol
Use pre-arranged transport or taxi-hailing apps such as Uber or Free Now which supply licensed cabs.
Report anything that does not feel right to local authorities or hotel or club management.    
Racially-motivated attacks
The majority of visitors experience no difficulties related to their race, but there have been some racially-motivated attacks, particularly in inner-city areas.
Laws and cultural differences
Personal ID
Always carry your passport, to show to the police if they request identification. Police may not accept a copy.
 Public offences
The Greek police will arrest you for any behaviour they find rowdy or indecent, especially where excessive drinking is involved. Some fancy dress costumes may be regarded as offensive and therefore against decency laws.
The courts are likely to impose a heavy fine or a prison sentence if they judge the behaviour to be illegal. Your travel insurance may not cover you if you miss flights because of an alcohol-related arrest.        
Smoking bans
It’s illegal to smoke in indoor public places. You could get a fine of up to 500 euros.
Illegal drugs
Illegal drugs, including cannabis, carry severe penalties. You should expect a long jail sentence and heavy fines for possessing, using or smuggling illegal drugs, including when transiting through  airports.
Airports in Greece have excellent technology and security for detecting illegal items. This is also used to scan the baggage of transiting passengers.
Public transport fines
You may need to time stamp your ticket on public transport for it to be valid. If you are found with an unvalidated ticket, you could get a fine. Check with local providers.
Buying goods or services
By law restaurants must provide an itemised bill. Make sure you get a receipt for any goods or services you buy.   
Carrying weapons
Offensive items like pepper spray or knuckledusters are listed as weapons in Greece. A knife with a blade measuring 10cm or more counts as a weapon, and you need a special licence for any knife that is not made for domestic, professional, artistic or hunting use.       
LGBT+ travellers
Same-sex sexual activity is legal in Greece, and civil unions between same-sex couples have been legal since 2015. The age of consent in Greece is 15, this applies to partners of both the same sex and opposite sex. Transgender people are able to change their legal gender. Anti-discrimination and hate speech laws apply to gender identity.
Public attitudes towards same-sex couples vary throughout the country. Couples showing affection in public may be frowned on, especially in rural areas. Attitudes are generally more welcoming in Athens and on many Greek islands.
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Military service
Men aged 19 and above, born to a Greek national, may have military service obligations, regardless of any other nationality they hold. The authorities can stop you leaving Greece until you complete military service.
Using cameras or approaching sensitive locations
It is illegal to approach or take photos or videos of military installations, vehicles or buildings. The authorities will arrest and possibly prosecute anyone doing so. Border areas are also militarily sensitive. If you visit such areas, do not take photos or videos.
Outdoor activities and adventure tourism
Music festivals
Take extra care of your valuables at festivals or large concerts. Read the festivals in Europe travel checklist for more advice.
Water sports and swimming safety
Book activities at a licensed water sports centre and before you start:
make sure the paperwork is completed
ask for a safety demonstration
make sure you know how to call for help
For more advice, see the website for Safe Water Sports, a non-profit organisation in Greece that aims to prevent accidents.
Obey warning signs and flags on beaches. Follow instructions from lifeguards and get follow local advice if jellyfish or urchins are present.
Quad biking and mopeds
Quad biking carries the risk of serious injury or death. You need specific travel insurance to cover quad biking, it is defined as an extreme sport and excluded on many policies. Always read the details of your insurance cover.
Make sure you get full instructions and training before your activity.
Insurance sold by the hire company usually only provides third-party insurance. It’s likely the company will charge you for any damage to the rental vehicle, and you may face arrest if you do not pay.
If you hire a moped, you need a valid driving licence with at least category A1 – ‘light motorcycle’. Choose a category in accordance with your driving licence and age. Category P, which is valid in the UK for driving mopeds up to 50cc, is not valid in Greece.
Make sure the vehicle is in good condition. Drivers and passengers must wear helmets before operating quad bikes and mopeds. Failure to do so may invalidate your insurance. If police stop you, they will fine you and take your licence.
Hiking and exploring nature
Take extra care when planning a hike or walk, especially during higher temperatures than you are used to. Trails often lack shade and the quality of route markings can vary.
Ensure that you:
plan your route beforehand, and consider your limitations in distance and difficulty
check weather forecasts and avoid hiking during the peak hours of sun; pack a hat, sunscreen and plenty of water
wear appropriate footwear for uneven terrain and consider taking a map, GPS and a fully charged phone
avoid hiking alone if you can, and always tell someone where you are going and the route you will take
Do not light fires as it is both dangerous and illegal due to the high risk of wildfires.
Make sure your insurance covers you for extra costs such as mountain rescue service and helicopter evacuation. 
If an accident happens or if you become lost, call 112 for the emergency services.
Camping and Motorhome travel
Greece has introduced regulations prohibiting camping in tents and the parking of trailers, semi-trailers, camper vans and motorhomes at archaeological sites, seashores, beaches, edges of public forests and in general public areas. Ensure that you used licensed campsites to avoid fines.
Transport risks
Road travel
If you are planning to drive in Greece, see information on driving abroad and check the rules of the road in the RAC’s Greece guide. The guide lists driving regulations and other legal requirements you need to be aware of.
You can use a UK photocard driving licence to drive in Greece. If you still have a paper driving licence, you may need to update it to a photocard licence or get the 1968 version of the international driving permit (IDP) as well.  
Check if you need a UK sticker to drive your car outside the UK. 
Hire car companies often have stricter requirements for their customers, such as a year of driving experience, a higher minimum age and holding an IDP. 
Drink-driving is a serious offence in Greece. If you are tested and found to have more than two-thirds of England’s legal limit of alcohol in your system, you could get a fine and possible imprisonment. 
Driving conditions
Traffic can be busy, fast and chaotic, especially in the larger cities. Local drivers regularly ignore speed limits, including in built-up areas.
Pedestrian crossings
When walking roadside, take care when crossing the road and if possible use a pedestrian crossing. Drivers do not always stop at crossings, even though they are supposed to. The green pedestrian crossing signal sometimes allows cars to turn right on to a crossing, so cross with caution.
Extreme weather and natural disasters
Emergency alerts and preparedness
Greece can experience extreme natural phenomena such as earthquakes, wildfires, extreme heat and flash floods. To be alerted to events near where you are located in Greece, make sure your mobile phone is set to allow emergency alerts. For instructions on how to do this see ‘register for alerts’ from the Greek government’s Emergency Communication Service) (in English):
for iPhones go to Settings > Notifications and enable the ‘Emergency Alerts’ option at the bottom
for Android 11 and higher go to Settings > Notifications > Advanced Settings > Wireless Emergency Alerts
for Samsung devices go to Settings > Apps > Messages > Notifications > Emergency Notifications and enable the ‘Emergency Alerts’ option
This will allow the Greek government’s Emergency Communication Service alerts to reach you. Always keep your phone with you as you will receive alerts according to the location of your phone.
Consider preparing a grab bag with essentials such as:
passports/ID cards
mobile phones and device chargers
money and bank cards
insurance and other important documents
essential medicine and prescription details
For further information, see Greece’s Civil Protection website (in Greek).
Find out more from gov.uk on what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards.
Flooding
Adverse weather conditions, including floods, can happen quickly.. Register for Emergency alerts and follow ‘112 Greece’ on X for official updates.
Wildfires
There is a high risk of wildfires during the summer season from April to October. Ensure that your mobile phone is registered to receive emergency alerts to be warned of wildfires near your location.
Wildfires are highly dangerous and unpredictable. The situation can change quickly.
To avoid starting wildfires:
leave no litter, especially not glass which is known to start fires
make sure cigarettes are properly extinguished
do not light barbecues
Causing a wildfire or a forest fire is a criminal offence in Greece – even if unintentional. If you see a fire, call the emergency services on 112.
Be cautious if you are in or near an area affected by wildfires:
follow @112Greece for official updates
follow the guidance of the emergency services
call the Greek emergency services on 112 if you are in immediate danger
contact your airline or travel operator who can assist you with return travel to the UK
For further information, see Greece’s Civil Protection website (in Greek).
Earthquakes
There is a risk of earthquakes and earth tremors in Greece. You should:
familiarise yourself with safety procedures in the event of an earthquake
follow advice given by the local authorities
call the Greek emergency services on 112 if you are in immediate danger
For further guidance on how to prepare for earthquakes, please visit the Greek Ministry of Civil Protection (in English) and to see, for anywhere in Greece, where your nearest assembly points are located in case of emergency you can visit mysafetyplan.gov.gr (map with text in Greek).
