This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Greece as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Greece to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Greece
For information on entering Greece, see Entry Requirements
The Greek authorities have implemented a number of measures to fight the spread of coronavirus. Some of these measures have recently been revised and further changes are likely. You can read the Greek authorities’ plans for future changes here. These plans remain subject to change, and you should monitor regularly for updates.
Use of shared swimming pools, including within apartment complexes, is forbidden.
Public gatherings of more than 10 people are forbidden.
Shops are open, as are other service providers like driving schools and private tuition centres (‘frontisteria’). Relevant public health regulations apply when visiting shops and other public spaces, including limits on the number of customers per square metre. You should conform with these requirements, and all other advice of the Greek authorities.
Nurseries and universities are closed. From 18 May, schools are open to certain year-groups of high school and sixth form students (‘Likeio Alpha, Beta and Gamma’; and ‘Gymnasio Alpha, Beta and Gamma’) students. Primary schools (‘Dimotika Scholeia’) remain closed.
For the public it is mandatory to wear facemasks on public transport (including ferries), in taxis, in all medical facilities and in lifts. Use of facemasks is strongly recommended in other closed spaces. Travel in a private car or a taxi is limited to a maximum of 2 adult passengers per vehicle, in addition to the driver. Any children in the vehicle do not count towards this limit. When travelling in a taxi, all passengers must wear facemasks.
Travel between islands
From 18 May, you may travel in mainland Greece and to Crete and Evia; but travel to all other islands is restricted. To purchase a ticket to travel to any other island, you will need to provide proof of permanent residence (via a tax certificate) on the island to which you wish to travel. It is obligatory to wear masks on all ferries, whose capacity is limited in order to facilitate social distancing. One-way travel from islands to the mainland is not restricted.
Cruise ships are banned from landing in Greek ports. From 18 May, private sailboats (and yachts) from outside Greece may land at Greek ports, subject to certain public health measures.
All sailboats must be empty of passengers (excluding crew). Upon arrival, you must present to harbour authorities, who will require the completion of a health declaration, and mandatory testing (to be paid-for by the occupants of each vessel). Use of sailboats within Greece remains forbidden, except for vessels of 7 metres or less. Vessels of 7 metres or less may be used (including for open sea swimming), but should not approach islands; nor should you stay overnight on any sailboat.
Changes to what is open or permitted, including international travel options, are subject to change and may occur at short notice. Keep up to date with the latest information and advice from your travel contact or business partners, as well as the sources in this travel advice.
Accommodation
All hotels are closed, though AirBnB accommodation remains available. Most campsites in Greece are closed, but the campsite in Igoumenitsa, at Drepano Beach, is currently open. Here, local authorities have undertaken to supply facilities to those in Campervans who have nowhere else to stay. You should confirm this with the campsite before travelling.
Health
If you think you have symptoms, including a fever or respiratory difficulties such as shortness of breath or a cough, you should avoid visiting local health facilities, but contact a doctor remotely to see whether a test is recommended.
For more information, consult the Greek National Public Health Organisation (NPHO) online or via telephone (dial 1135, or 210 521 2054, from within Greece). The NPHO can provide contact details of a doctor; their telephone line operates 24 hours a day. You should continue to follow this advice if symptoms develop after the conclusion of a 14-day period of self-isolation.
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Greece
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
