The Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) provides advice about risks of travel to help British nationals make informed decisions. Find out more about FCDO travel advice.
Heatwave and wildfires in Europe
Extreme temperatures are affecting many areas of Greece. There are active wildfires across Greece, including in populated areas on the mainland and a number of islands.
The ‘state of emergency’ in Rhodes, declared by the Greek authorities on 26 July, has now been lifted.
Wildfires are highly dangerous and unpredictable. The situation can change quickly. Follow “112 Greece” on Twitter for official updates.
Read the NHS advice on coping in hot weather.
If you are travelling to an area affected by wildfires
If you are due to travel to an area that might be affected by wildfires, contact your travel operator or accommodation provider before you travel to check that it is not currently impacted. Make sure you have appropriate insurance.
If you are in or near areas affected by wildfires
Be cautious if you are in or near an area affected by wildfires. You should:
follow the guidance of the emergency services
call the Greek Emergency Services on 112 if you are in immediate danger
contact your airline or travel operator who can assist you with return travel to the UK.
enable the “Emergency Alerts” option to receive the Greek government’s emergency alerts. For:
iPhones go to Settings > Notification. Enable the “Emergency Alerts” option at the bottom.
Android 11 and higher go to Settings > Notifications > Advanced Settings > Wireless Emergency Alerts
Samsung Devices go to Settings > Apps > Messages > Notifications > Emergency Notifications. Enable the “Emergency Alerts” option
read the Greek Government’s protection guidelines in the event of a forest fire.
register via the Greek government’s Emergency Communication Service (in Greek)
The Greek government has set up a Crisis Management Unit to facilitate the evacuation of foreign visitors from Rhodes due to the ongoing forest fires. Contact them for advice on:
+30 210 368 1730
+30 210 368 1259
+30 210 368 1350
If you need consular assistance
If you are a British national and need consular assistance, call our 24-hour helpline on +44 20 7008 5000
Before you travel
No travel can be guaranteed safe. Read all the advice in this guide as well as support for British nationals abroad which includes:
advice on preparing for travel abroad and reducing risks
information for women, LGBT+ and disabled travellers
Follow and contact FCDO travel on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram. You can also sign up to get email notifications when this advice is updated.
Travel insurance
If you choose to travel, research your destinations and get appropriate travel insurance. Insurance should cover your itinerary, planned activities and expenses in an emergency.
