Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Slovakia on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Slovakia.
Returning to the UK
Travelling from and returning to the UK
Check what you must do to travel abroad and return to England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
If you plan to pass through another country to return to the UK, check the travel advice for the country you’re transiting. If you will pass through a red list country, book your hotel quarantine package before travelling to the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements. You should contact local authorities for information on testing facilities or see this list of laboratories offering tests. Some of these can provide test certificates in English on request.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to self-isolate in your accommodation until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment. See the Slovak government COVID-19 website for advice in English on “What to do if I am COVID-19 positive”.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Public spaces and services
The Slovak government has imposed restrictions on public life to counter the spread of COVID-19. You should check the Slovak government COVID-19 website (Slovak only) for the latest restrictions and exemptions as these can change at short notice. You may wish to use an online translation tool as the pages in English are not always updated regularly. There is also information on the latest measures in English on the IOM Migration Information Centre, Slovak Spectator and Radio Slovakia International websites.
You must wear an FFP2-standard face mask in all indoor areas, including public transport and taxis; when attending indoor and outdoor events; and when outside if you are less than 2 meters away from people outside your household.
Most shops, restaurants and services are open, but many require you to show that you are fully vaccinated, have received your booster, or can show a negative PCR/LAMP test result no older than 72 hours or an antigen or lateral flow test result no older than 48 hours.
From 16 February, hotels require you to demonstrate that you are either fully vaccinated or have a negative PCR or LAMP test result no older than 72 hours, or a negative antigen or lateral flow test result no older than 48 hours, or proof that you have recovered from COVID-19 within the previous 180 days. For all long-distance buses and trains, you will need proof of vaccination, recovery or a negative COVID-19 test.
UK proof of COVID-19 recovery and vaccination
Slovakia will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 recovery and vaccination record. If you are travelling with a printed PDF proof of vaccination status, it must date from 1 November to ensure that the certificate can be scanned successfully, if domestic certification is required. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
Healthcare in Slovakia
If you are in Slovakia and you are concerned that you may have the symptoms of coronavirus, you should follow the advice of the Slovak authorities and contact your usual healthcare provider by telephone or email, not in person. If your symptoms are severe, you should call 155 or 112, where some operators may speak English.
The Slovak government website has information in English and advice on how to get tested for Covid-19 (currently in Slovak only). You can also consult your nearest regional office of the Slovak Public Health Authority on their website.
If you test positive for COVID-19
From 25 January, the period of self-isolation is 5 days if you test positive for COVID-19. The 5 day period begins from the day you first display symptoms or when your test was taken. You should inform anyone that you have been in close contact with during the previous 2 days. For the Slovak government’s definition of ‘close contact’, see the next section. If you display no symptoms during the final 24 hours of the 5-day quarantine period, you may end your self-isolation after the 5th day. If you continue to display symptoms, your doctor will advise when you can end your self-isolation.
For more information, see the Slovak Spectator website in English or the Slovak Public Health Authority website (in Slovak only).
If you are in contact with somebody who tests positive for COVID-19
If you came into close contact with someone who tested positive for COVID-19 within the past 2 days, you should self-isolate for 5 days unless you have no symptoms and were fully vaccinated against COVID-19 no more than 9 months ago, or received a booster, or recovered from COVID-19 within the past 180 days.
The Slovak Public Health Authority defines you as having come into close contact with someone who tested positive if you were not wearing an FFP2-standard facemask and:
were in direct physical contact
or spent more than five minutes at a distance of less than two metres
or spent more than five minutes inside or in an enclosed space
or travelled on the same means of transport for more than five minutes
For more information, see the Slovak Public Health Authority website (in Slovak only) or the Slovak Spectator website (in English).
Local hospitals and further healthcare information
For contact details of local hospitals visit our list of healthcare providers. UK-issued prescriptions are not accepted at Slovak pharmacies, and you should bring sufficient supplies with you to cover your stay. If you need repeat medication you would need to consult a local doctor to get a Slovak prescription issued.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Slovakia.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Slovakia
Wherever possible British nationals should aim to be vaccinated in the country where they live. We will update this page when the Government of Slovakia announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Slovak national vaccination programme started in January 2021 and is currently using the Pfizer-BioNTech, Moderna, and Janssen (Johnson and Johnson) vaccines. All British residents of Slovakia and full-time students, can register to receive a COVID-19 vaccination through the Slovak national vaccination programme, regardless of whether they are registered with the Slovak public health insurance schemes. This follows the Slovak Health Ministry’s expansion of eligibility criteria on 14 June.
Further details are on the Slovak Health Ministry website (in Slovak only) and translated into English on the local English-language Slovak Spectator website or the International Organisation for Migration English Language COVID-19 information page.
For information on getting a COVID-19 vaccination in Slovakia if you received your previous doses abroad, check the Slovak government’s Coronavirus website.
You can find more information on the Slovak vaccination programme on the Slovak Government COVID-19 Information Website (in Slovak only). You can register for a vaccination by completing and submitting a form (currently in Slovak only). Information and registration is also available by calling 0800 174 174 within Slovakia or +421 222 200 910 from abroad.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in Slovakia, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
If you receive your COVID-19 vaccination in Slovakia, you can get an EU Digital COVID Certificate from the national authorities. The Certificate proves that you have been vaccinated against COVID-19, received a negative test result, or recovered from COVID-19. It will help facilitate your travel within the EU and, in some countries, you can use it to demonstrate your COVID-19 status to businesses and other organisations. For further information visit the European Commission’s EU Digital COVID Certificate page
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance
Further information
Further advice and information is available on the Slovak foreign ministry website and the Slovak government’s Coronavirus website.
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
