This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Slovakia set and enforce entry rules. For further information contact their embassy, high commission or consulate. You may also check with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and travel documents meet their requirements.
If you are travelling to Slovakia for work, read the guidance on visas and permits as the rules have changed since 1 January 2021.
Entry rules in response to coronavirus
Entry to Slovakia
There are travel restrictions for travellers from the UK and most other countries. The Slovak Government may change its entry requirements at short notice. Direct flights from the UK are permitted, and regular services have resumed.
New entry requirements
Entry is now permitted for fully vaccinated travellers from the UK regardless of any close connection to Slovakia (see below for definition of fully vaccinated and the additional requirements).
If you are travelling directly from the UK or any other non-Schengen country to Slovakia, UK nationals may enter if fully vaccinated with an EU-approved vaccine. UK nationals who are not fully vaccinated may only enter if you are one of the following:
a resident in Slovakia
a close relative of a resident or of a Slovak citizen (i.e. spouse, minor child or parent of a minor child)
commercial transport personnel
a student studying in Slovakia
you fall under certain limited exemptions
The above restriction does not apply to UK nationals who enter Slovakia via the internal Schengen borders with neighbouring Hungary, the Czech Republic, Austria or Poland, or by air from any country in the Schengen area.
For full details of the criteria to enter Slovakia and the definition of a close relative, see the Slovak Ministry of Interior website or the International Organisation for Migration information pages.
Everyone aged over 12 years and 2 months arriving from all countries by all means of transport must register in advance of travel by completing the “Ehranica” form on the Slovak government’s website. After registering, you will receive a confirmation which you should show at the border and carry with you during your stay, in case the authorities ask to see it.
Additional requirements for entry to Slovakia by air
All air passengers must complete the Slovak government’s Passenger Locator Form, in addition to the Ehranica form. You should carry a printed confirmation with you to show airline or border officials
If you arrive by air from the UK or another country not listed in Annex 1 of the relevant Slovak government decree (in Slovak only), you must also be able to show a negative PCR test result no older than 72 hours, regardless of your vaccination status. Children under 12 years and 2 months do not need to show a negative PCR test result
Definition of a fully vaccinated individual
The Slovak government defines a person as being fully vaccinated if they have been vaccinated with a vaccine approved by the European Medicines Agency, i.e Pfizer/BioNTech, Moderna, AstraZeneca or Johnson & Johnson and:
for two-dose vaccines: 14 days have passed since receiving the second dose (but no more than one year)
for one-dose vaccines: 21 days have passed since receiving the vaccine (but no more than one year)
14 days have passed since receiving the first vaccine dose of any vaccine within 180 days of recovering from COVID-19 (but no more than one year)
Fully vaccinated people must be able to show a certificate proving their vaccination status in Slovak or English.
Demonstrating your COVID-19 status
Slovakia will accept an EU Digital COVID Certificate or a certificate issued by a third country (including the UK), which must contain the following: name, surname, date of birth, name of the vaccine and its manufacturer, number of doses received and the date of the administration of the last dose. The certificate must be stamped by the designated national authority or electronically verifiable and must be in English.
Slovakia will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 recovery and vaccination record. If you are travelling with a printed PDF proof of vaccination status, it must date from 1 November to ensure that the certificate can be scanned successfully. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
Self-isolation requirements
You do not need to self-isolate after arrival from the UK if you are fully vaccinated or transiting Slovakia. Unless you are fully vaccinated, or qualify for one of the exemptions below, everyone entering Slovakia must self-isolate for at least 10 days. A 14-day self-isolation period applies to certain countries outside Europe. You may be able to end your self-isolation earlier by taking a test.
You can end your self-isolation earlier if you receive a negative PCR test result taken in Slovakia. You can take the test free-of-charge on the fifth day of self-isolation at the earliest. You need to book the test on the Slovak government website. Children under 12 years and 2 months who do not display any COVID-19 symptoms can end their self-isolation at the same time as everyone else in their household. Those in the same household must also self-isolate until everyone’s self-isolation period is completed.
Exemptions from the requirement to self-isolate include:
fully vaccinated people, as defined by the Slovak government
people who work in Slovakia and are either resident in an EU country, Iceland, Norway, Lichtenstein, Switzerland or Ukraine (if you reside in Ukraine within 100km of the Slovak border)
people who are a resident in Slovakia but working in either an EU country, Iceland, Norway, Lichtenstein, Switzerland or Ukraine. (They must have spent the previous 14 days only in these countries. If they are older than 12 years and 2 months, they must be able to show a negative PCR test no older than 7 days)
students resident in neighbouring countries studying in Slovakia or residents of Slovakia who are studying in a neighbouring country. (If they are older than 12 years and 2 months, they must be able to show a negative PCR or antigen test no older than 7 days)
those who are transiting Slovakia, taking someone to/from an airport in a neighbouring country, working on freight transport, funeral and/or medical personnel, military and/or diplomatic personnel, attending funerals, or caring for close relatives
For full details of the new entry requirements valid from 19 July, see the Slovak government decree (in Slovak only) and the website of the IOM Migration Information Centre
If you have visited one of the small number of non-European countries listed by the Slovak government during the 14 days before entering Slovakia, you must self-isolate for 14 days, even if you are fully vaccinated. You can end your self-isolation earlier after receiving two negative RT-PCR test results. Self-isolation is obligatory for everyone living in the same household. For more information, including the latest list of countries affected see the websites of the IOM Migration Information Centre and the Slovak government (in Slovak only).
Cross border workers
The definition of a cross-border commuter from a neighbouring country includes those living within 100km of the nearest border crossing with Slovakia. Full details are on the Slovak government website.
Unvaccinated cross-border workers must pre-register on the Slovak government’s website. They are exempted from self-isolation if they can show a negative PCR test not older than seven days and evidence from their employer that they are cross-border commuters.
For fully vaccinated cross-border workers, registration on the Slovak government’s website is valid for 6 months. They do not need to enter self-isolation and they do not need to show a negative PCR test result. For more information, see the Slovak Ministry of Interior website.
Re-entering Slovakia after taking someone to an international airport in a neighbouring country
People taking others to and from international airports in the Czech Republic, Poland, Hungary and Austria do not have to self-isolate on their return to Slovakia, but must register in advance on the Slovak Ministry of Foreign Affairs website (in Slovak only) and show at the Slovak border confirmation of this registration and a copy of the passenger’s plane ticket. No stops are allowed, apart from those to refuel and the time the passenger needs to get in or out of the vehicle refuelling.
Transiting Slovakia
You can transit Slovakia as long as your transit journey is less than 8 hours and you do not stop other than to refuel, or if you do not leave the airport premises. From 9 July, you must use selected routes for transit as outlined on the Slovak government website (an English translation starts on page 11).
You should also check the entry requirements for the relevant neighbouring countries on your route on FCDO Travel Advice.
Transport
Slovakia’s international airports at Bratislava, Kosice and Poprad are operational with flights to certain permitted destinations.
Border crossings
Most major routes between Slovakia and Austria, Hungary, Poland and the Czech Republic are open with spot checks at the borders.
Full border checks remain in place with Ukraine. For more information on crossing the border with Ukraine, see the Slovak Foreign Ministry website (in Slovak only).
Neighbouring countries can change their entry requirements at short notice. You should check the FCDO Travel Advice for all countries on your route.
Regular entry requirements
Visas
The rules for travelling or working in European countries changed on 1 January 2021:
you can travel to countries in the Schengen area for up to 90 days in any 180-day period without a visa. This applies if you travel as a tourist, to visit family or friends, to attend business meetings, cultural or sports events, or for short-term studies or training.
if you are travelling to Slovakia and other Schengen countries without a visa, make sure your whole visit is within the 90 day limit. Visits to Schengen countries within the previous 180 days before you travel count towards your 90 days.
to stay longer, to work or study, for business travel or for other reasons, you will need to meet the Slovak government’s entry requirements. Check with the Slovak Embassy what type of visa and/or work permit you may need
if you stay in Slovakia with a residence permit or long-stay visa, this does not count towards your 90-day visa-free limit
Any time you spent in Slovakia or other Schengen countries before 1 January 2021 does not count towards your 90-day visa-free limit.
At Slovak border control, you may need to queue in separate lanes from EU, EEA and Swiss citizens.
Check your passport is stamped if you enter or exit the Schengen area through Slovakia as a visitor. Border guards will use passport stamps to check you’re complying with the 90-day visa-free limit for short stays in the Schengen area. If relevant entry or exit stamps are not in your passport, border guards will presume that you have overstayed your visa-free limit.
You can show evidence of when and where you entered or exited the Schengen area, and ask the border guards to add this date and location in your passport. Examples of acceptable evidence include boarding passes and tickets.
You may also need to:
show a return or onward ticket
show you have enough money for your stay
If you are resident in Slovakia your passport should not be stamped. You should proactively show your proof of residence as well as your valid passport at Slovak border control. For further information, see our Living in Slovakia guide.
Passport validity
If you are planning to travel to an EU country (except Ireland), or Switzerland, Norway, Iceland, Liechtenstein, Andorra, Monaco, San Marino or Vatican City, you must meet the Schengen area rules.
Your passport must meet 2 requirements. It must be:
less than 10 years old on the day you enter (check the ‘date of issue’)
valid for at least 3 months after the day you plan to leave (check the ‘expiry date’)
We are asking the European Commission to clarify the 10-year rule. Their guidance for Schengen border guards may not be updated until the spring of 2022. Until then, for some Schengen countries your passport may need to be less than 10 years old during your whole visit, and the 3 months at the end of your visit may need to be within 10 years of your passport’s issue date.
Check both the issue date and the expiry date in your passport. If you renewed your passport early, extra months may have been added to its expiry date. This could affect the requirement for your passport to be less than 10 years old.
Contact your travel provider or embassy of the country you are visiting if you think that your passport does not meet both these requirements. Renew your passport if you need to.
Registering with the Slovak authorities
If you plan to stay in Slovakia for a longer period of time, you should register with the police within 3 days of arrival. You’ll need your passport, 2 photographs and proof of accommodation. You’ll have an option to apply for a Slovak ‘green card’, which can be used as proof of your ID, while your passport is kept in a safe place. Visit the website of Ministry of Interior of the Slovak Republic for further information.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are accepted for entry, airside transit and exit from Slovakia. They are also accepted for a return to Slovakia if you normally live there.
Travelling with pets
You cannot use the existing pet passport scheme. Instead, you’ll need an animal health certificate (AHC) for your pet. Allow at least 1 month to arrange this and relevant vaccinations.
Follow the guidance for taking your pet dog, cat or ferret abroad.
If your pet passport was issued in an EU Member State, it remains valid for travel to Slovakia.
See the Slovak Financial Administration guidance on travelling from the UK to Slovakia with pets (in Slovak only).
