Coronavirus guidance is being updated.
Read the Prime Minister’s address for the latest information.

There are still limited commercial options to return to the UK from Slovakia.
If you live in the UK and are currently visiting Slovakia, you are strongly advised to return now by commercial means. Don’t risk getting stranded.
UK special charter flights will only operate for priority countries where commercial flights are not possible. You should not assume that these flights will become available in countries where commercial routes are operating. Please do not contact the contracted travel management company if no special charter flight is advertised here.
Flights
There will be a commercial charter flight on Monday 11 May at 2 pm from Bratislava M.R.Stefanika airport to London Stansted. You should book your flight with Charter Advisory direct. You should note the conditions of carriage carefully, including wearing of face masks. You must have appropriate and valid identity documents for the UK in order to travel. The flight is offered on a ‘first come, first served’ basis. Please note this is not a UK government organised flight, and all arrangements are between passengers and the charter company.
For more information about this flight, check Charter Advisory’s Facebook page.
We are not aware of plans for any further flights from Bratislava and all of Slovakia’s airports will remain closed to regular scheduled passenger flights until further notice.
See below for information on Vienna airport and commercial options to return to the UK via Austria.
Road and rail
International rail and bus services have stopped. From 6 May, taxis may carry passengers, but only within Slovakia.
Exit by road is currently permitted to Austria and the Czech Republic under certain circumstances, but this may change at short notice.
Travel via bordering countries
There are restrictions on entry for most British nationals at the borders with Poland, Hungary, Czech Republic and Ukraine. Since 14 April there have also been controls and special requirements for entry to Austria.
It is however possible to return to the UK via Austria and the Czech Republic under certain circumstances.
If you plan to transit Austria, you will need to provide evidence that you are transiting (such as a flight or ferry booking or a full tank of fuel) and complete a declaration of transit. If you are ending your journey in Austria, the Austrian government may require non-residents to show a medical certificate. For more information, check the FCO travel advice for Austria.
There are indirect scheduled commercial flights to the UK from Vienna Airport via Frankfurt, Dublin and Amsterdam, but these may be subject to cancellation at short notice and flight schedules may mean you need an overnight stay. You should contact the airlines directly. The British Embassy in Vienna is issuing regular updates on Twitter and Facebook with the latest available information on departure options from Austria. See also FCO travel advice for Austria.
Entry to the Czech Republic can be arranged under certain circumstances if you are in transit for less than 24 hours. See FCO travel advice for Czech Republic.
To plan your route by road or air, check the FCO travel advice for all the countries you plan to travel through, including for any special documentation you may need.
For the latest information, please refer to the most recent social media updates from the British Embassy in Bratislava.
Travelling to Vienna Airport
International rail and bus services from Bratislava to Vienna have stopped, but you can reach the border with Austria either by car or by taxi. There is a list of Slovak car rental companies on the local English language Slovak Spectator website. It is then possible to cross into Austria on foot and arrange a taxi or car hire to meet you or take public transport to Vienna Airport from Kittsee or Wolfsthal.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British Embassy on +421 2 59 98 2000.
The Embassy cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
If you are in Slovakia and you are concerned that you may have the symptoms of coronavirus, you should follow the advice of the Slovak authorities and contact your usual healthcare provider by telephone or email, not in person. If your symptoms are severe, you should call 155 or 112, where some operators may speak English. The Slovak government website has information in English and a hotline for advice (hotline operators may not speak English). You can find contact details for your nearest regional office of the Slovak Public Health Authority on their website.
Your journey home
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Further information
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
