This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Slovakia as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Slovakia to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Slovakia
For information on entering Slovakia, see Entry Requirements
On 12 March, the Slovak government declared a State of Emergency and announced a range of restrictions on travel and events.
Local public transport is running on a reduced timetable.
It is mandatory to wear a mask or otherwise cover your nose and mouth when travelling on public transport and outside the home. There are exceptions to wearing a face mask, including for: children under 2 years; staff and pupils at kindergartens and primary schools; people from the same household outdoors as long as they remain 2 metres from others; people diagnosed with serious autism; people in a car if they are from the same household.
Secondary schools and universities remain closed until further notice. Primary schools and kindergartens may open from 1 June. Events are restricted to a maximum of 100 people.
As part of a phased lifting of restrictions, shops, services and most tourism and leisure facilities, including hotels, are now open, but with social distancing and hygiene measures in place.
From 3 June, swimming pools, spas, and indoor sports facilities can open to the public, and sports competitions can take place with spectators. Limits on opening hours of restaurants and numbers at each table are lifted.
For more information and a full list of businesses and activities open to the public check the Slovak Public Health Authority (in Slovak only) and the Slovak government Coronavirus website.
Health
If you are in Slovakia and you are concerned that you may have the symptoms of coronavirus, you should follow the advice of the Slovak authorities and contact your usual healthcare provider by telephone or email, not in person. If your symptoms are severe, you should call 155 or 112, where some operators may speak English.
The Slovak government website has information in English and a hotline for advice (hotline operators may not speak English). You can find contact details for your nearest regional office of the Slovak Public Health Authority on their website.
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Slovakia.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Slovakia, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
Further advice and information is available on the Slovak foreign ministry website.
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
