The Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) advises against all but essential travel to:
the whole of Slovakia based on the current assessment of COVID-19 risks.
If you are returning to the UK from Slovakia, you will need to self-isolate on your return (unless you are exempt). Check the latest guidance for England, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales.
Travellers should follow the advice of the local authorities on how best to protect themselves and others, including any measures that they bring in to control the virus. See Coronavirus
Travel to Slovakia is currently subject to entry restrictions
From 1 January 2021, only those UK nationals who are resident in Slovakia, close relatives of residents and of Slovak citizens, commercial transport personnel or those who fall under certain limited exemptions may enter the country if they arrive directly from the UK or any other non-Schengen country
The above restriction does not apply for UK nationals who enter Slovakia from a country in the Schengen area
If you decide to travel to Slovakia, you must register in advance with the Slovak Public Health Authority, enter self-isolation on arrival and take a RT-PCR test for COVID-19 no earlier than 8 days after arrival
If you arrive in Slovakia by air, you also need to complete in advance the Slovak government’s Passenger Locator Form.
Separate entry arrangements apply to travellers who meet a set of narrow conditions, such as cross-border workers, or those who can show evidence of recovery from COVID-19 or of having been vaccinated against COVID-19. As there is currently no means to certify vaccinations for international travel, all travellers should continue to obtain a PCR test as stated above.
Tighter entry restrictions may enter into force at short notice. See Entry requirements for more information before you plan to travel.
Preparing for your return journey to the UK
If you’re returning to the UK from overseas, you will need to:
provide your journey and contact details before you travel
check if you need to self-isolate on your return
If your return journey to the UK transits another country, you should check whether it is subject to a travel ban or any other additional requirements. If so, contact your travel provider.
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
A nationwide curfew to combat COVID-19 by restricting movement is in place. Different restrictions may apply within those districts with higher infection prevalence, and negative test certificates may be required for certain activities. From 19 April some restrictions on daily life in Slovakia are being eased and travellers vaccinated against COVID-19 may be able to shorten their self-isolation after arrival. If you’re planning travel to Slovakia, find out what you need to know about coronavirus and the restrictions there in Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCDO’s guidance on foreign travel insurance.
For information about COVID-19 vaccines, see the Coronavirus page.
There are rules about taking food and drink into the EU. See Taking food and drink into the EU for further information.
If you’re living in or moving to Slovakia, visit our Living in Slovakia guide in addition to this travel advice.
If you need to contact the emergency services in Slovakia call 112.
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Slovakia, attacks can’t be ruled out. See Terrorism
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.
The Overseas Business Risk service offers information and advice for British companies operating overseas on how to manage political, economic, and business security-related risks.
