Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Bhutan on the TravelHealthPro website.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International Travel
Commercial flights to and from Bhutan remain very limited. Check with your travel company for the latest information.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Bhutan.
Returning to the UK
Travelling from and returning to the UK
Check what you must do to travel abroad and return to England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
If you plan to pass through another country to return to the UK, check the travel advice for the country you’re transiting.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Bhutan
Bhutan has put measures in place to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Keep up to date with information from your tour operator, transport or accommodation provider on the impact on any existing travel plans.
If you need further information about entry requirements, contact the local immigration authorities or the nearest Bhutanese Embassy. You should also check with your airline or travel company for the latest information.
You should comply with any additional screening measures put in place by the authorities.
Healthcare in Bhuatan
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Healthfor further details on healthcare in Bhutan.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Bhutan
Wherever possible British nationals should aim to be vaccinated in the country where they live. We will update this page when the Royal Government of Bhutan announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
Bhutan’s national vaccination programme started in March 2021 using the AstraZeneca vaccine. The Royal Government of Bhutan has stated that British nationals resident in Bhutan are eligible for vaccination. Further information on the vaccination programme is available on the Royal Government of Bhutan’s Ministry of Health website.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in Bhutan, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
