This page has information on travelling to Bhutan. 
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport from the UK, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Bhutan set and enforce entry rules. If you’re unsure how Bhutan’s entry requirements apply to you, contact its UK embassy, high commission or consulate.
All travellers
Bhutan is open to non-Bhutanese nationals arriving by air.
Requirements for entry are changing frequently. It is therefore important that you check for up-to-date information on detailed requirements with your tour provider or sponsoring organization before travelling.
If you’re fully vaccinated
Entry requirements for Bhutan are the same for all travellers, regardless of COVID-19 vaccination status.
If you’re not fully vaccinated
Entry requirements for Bhutan are the same for all travellers, regardless of COVID-19 vaccination status.
Children and young people
There are no specific requirements for children and young people.
If you’re transiting through Bhutan
Transiting is when you pass through one country on the way to your final destination.
Check with your airline before departing.
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
Entry and exit points
Foreigners, with the exception of citizens from India, Bangladesh and Maldives nationals, may only enter or depart the country through certain towns such as Phuntsoling, Samdrup Jongkhar and Gelephug (by road) or Paro (by air).
Visa
You will need a passport and visa to enter and exit Bhutan. Visas are only issued on arrival, but you must apply in advance through a tour operator and receive visa approval before you travel. Keep a photocopy of your passport visa pages and flight ticket separate from the originals when travelling.
All visas are approved from Thimphu and are only issued to tourists booked with a local licensed tour operator, either directly or through a foreign travel agent. Applications for tourist visas are submitted by the tour operator.
All visitors (except nationals of Bangladesh, India and the Maldives) must obtain visa clearance from Thimphu before coming to Bhutan. More information, including a list of authorised tour operators in Bhutan, may be obtained from the Tourism Council of Bhutan.
For further advice on tour companies you may contact the Honorary British Consul to Bhutan.
The Tourism Council of Bhutan sets a non-negotiable minimum daily tariff for all visitors to Bhutan. The rate includes all accommodations, all meals, transportation, services of licensed guides and porters. Cultural programmes where and when available will be organised on payment basis.
If you’re travelling for business or other non-tourist reasons you must arrange your visa through your sponsoring organisation in Bhutan.
Passport validity
Your passport should be valid for a minimum period of 6 months after the date you intend to leave Bhutan.
If you plan to stay in Bhutan for an extended period of time you may also wish to make contact with the British Honorary Consul to Bhutan.
Medication
There are restrictions on the import of medicines into Bhutan. You can bring your prescription and other medicines in quantities clearly for your own personal use. You should carry copies of the prescription with you if possible. For larger quantities, or if you’re carrying medicines not for your own personal use, check with the Honorary Consul to Bhutan.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are accepted for entry into Bhutan, but you will still need an e-visa. ETDs are accepted for exit from Bhutan. If you need to get an ETD while in Bhutan, you should apply online and then submit a police report to the Department of Immigration in order to transfer your visa to the ETD. If you do not transfer your visa, you’re likely to face difficulties leaving the country.
