Coronavirus
There is an ongoing outbreak of coronavirus in China, but cases have been confirmed in other countries, including Bhutan.
The Bhutanese authorities have introduced a number of measures to limit the spread of the virus, including a two-week restriction on the entry of all foreign tourists, including British nationals, announced on 6 March 2020.
For tourists already in Bhutan, tour operators may limit travel outside of Thimphu, Paro, and Punakha.
If you are planning on travelling to Bhutan, please consult your tour operator for information on how your travel may be affected.
You should comply with any additional screening measures put in place by the authorities.
Keep up to date with information from your tour operator, transport or accommodation provider on the impact on any existing travel plans.
If you need further information about entry requirements, contact the local immigration authorities or the nearest Bhutanese Embassy. You should also check with your airline or travel company for the latest information.
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website. You can find more information about cases in Bhutan on the TravelHealthPro country page.
Other health concerns
At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
There is a reasonably well equipped hospital in the capital, Thimphu, with modern diagnostic facilities such as ultrasound, MRI and CT Scan. Outside Thimphu, Bhutanese hospitals provide only basic health care.
You may find the high mountain altitudes demanding. Familiarise yourself with the dangers of altitude sickness especially if you are trekking in remote areas.
Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad, emergency helicopter evacuation and repatriation.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 112 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
