

Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Bhutan
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Bhutan, attacks cannot be ruled out.      
Crime  
Crime levels are low across Bhutan, but you should take the same precautions as you would at home.
Keep a copy of your passport’s photo page and visa, and your flight ticket separate from the originals when travelling.
Laws and cultural differences
Bhutanese people take their customs and traditions very seriously. Respect them at all times to avoid giving offence. Particularly avoid criticising HM The King of Bhutan. If in doubt, ask your tour guide.      
Dress code
Dress respectfully when visiting temples and Dzongs (fortified buildings, like castles), so that you do not cause offence. Your tour guide will be able to advise.
Alcohol laws          
Alcohol is legal in Bhutan, but there are restrictions on how much alcohol tourists can buy at one time. Check with the vendor what the limit is.
Smoking and e-cigarette bans
It was illegal to sell or buy tobacco products in Bhutan until 2020. It is currently legal, but smoking is still frowned on. Be mindful of where you smoke – for example smoking near religious locations may cause offence. 
Illegal drugs and prison sentences
There are strict penalties for possession, use and trafficking of illegal drugs. If convicted, you could get a prison sentence and heavy fine. Sentences range from a minimum of 3 years to a life sentence depending upon the type and quantity of drugs.
LGBT+ travellers  
Same-sex sexual activity was decriminalised in Bhutan in 2020, and there are no censorship laws restricting the discussion or promotion of LGBT+ topics. Same-sex marriages are not recognised. There is no legal recognition of transgender individuals.
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.  
Wildlife, animal products and souvenirs 
Environmental conservation is critically important to Bhutan. You could be imprisoned for harming protected species. It is illegal to litter anywhere in Bhutan.     
Outdoor activities and adventure tourism
You need to use tour guides when visiting places of interest. Otherwise, you may be refused entry.
Mountaineering and hiking
Mountaineering is banned in Bhutan, but there are trekking options across the country at a wide range of altitudes. Take advice from your tour guide.
Transport risks
Road travel
If you are planning to drive in Bhutan, see information on driving abroad.
Car rentals come with a driver. If you want to drive your own vehicle, you must hire a guide to travel with you.
Any car you bring into Bhutan must meet the requirements of the Bhutan Road Safety and Transport Authority. You must have a driving licence, insurance documents, pollution control documents and an entry permit. You will need to pay a daily charge of 4,500 ngultrum. The same fees and rules apply for motorbikes.   
For a stay of more than 90 days, apply for a Bhutanese driving licence from the Bhutan Road Safety and Transport Authority. You must show your UK driving licence.
Driving conditions
Car and motorbike accidents are one of the biggest causes of injury and death in Bhutan. If possible, avoid travelling at night. Always travel in a well-maintained vehicle with seatbelts.
Road conditions can be dangerous, particularly in monsoon season. There are no traffic lights in Bhutan.
Air travel  
Weather conditions regularly affect domestic and international flights.
Extreme weather and natural disasters
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards.
Monsoon
Monsoon rains can cause landslides that cut off some roads for days. Always check your route before setting off and take extra care during the monsoon season.
Earthquakes
Several parts of Bhutan lie on active fault zones. Limited emergency vehicles, equipment and medical facilities are likely to increase the impact of an earthquake. The US Federal Emergency Management Agency has advice about what to do before, during and after an earthquake.
Wildfires
There is high risk of wildfires, particularly in central and southern areas of the country. You will be fined if you cause a wildfire, even if it is accidental. The level of the fine increases if the wildfire is caused intentionally.
Flooding
Flooding, including flash flooding, can be caused by many natural events such as monsoon rains and earthquakes. Both rural and urban areas are vulnerable.
