Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Jordan on the TravelHealthPro website.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
Passengers who have been in the UK within the previous 14 days, including passengers who have passed through the UK in transit, are now permitted to enter Jordan during this period subject to pre-flight and on arrival PCR testing. This also applies if you transit from the UK through a third country to enter Jordan.
British nationals affected by flight cancellations should contact their airlines for further information and for advice on possible alternative flight options via a third country. Please be aware, however, that several third countries have themselves suspended flights to and from the UK and others may follow suit at very short notice.
British nationals who require consular assistance should call the British Embassy on + 962 6 5909200 and follow instructions for consular assistance.
All passengers arriving in Jordan will require a negative PCR test within 72hrs of departure to Jordan and complete a health declaration and passenger locator form.
All passengers need to register on the ‘visitjordan’ platform and follow instructions to either book a PCR test on arrival, or claim a waiver for testing on arrival by uploading evidence that they are fully vaccinated.
You do not need to wait at the airport for PCR test results. You should proceed to your accommodation. The PCR test results will be sent by SMS. Those who test positive with severe symptoms will need to go to a COVID-19 designated hospital for isolation and treatment if required.
Sign up for travel advice email alerts and monitor British Embassy’s social media channels on Twitter and on Facebook.
Check travel advice for any country that you will transit between the UK and Jordan.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Jordan.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government requirements. The Ministry of Health has published a list of accredited testing facilities on their website (in Arabic).
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Jordan
For information on entry to Jordan, see Entry requirements
The Government of Jordan has introduced and enforced measures to tackle the spread of COVID-19. Measures are regularly reviewed and updated. Follow the instructions of the local authorities.
The Government of Jordan implements curfew hours across the country. The timings can change and be announced at short notice. You are not permitted to leave your accommodation during a curfew. You should adhere to the curfew and monitor official announcements.
As from 1 July, the daily curfew hours are from 12am (midnight) for businesses and 1am for unvaccinated individuals through to 6am. Under these measures, you can leave your accommodation between 6am and 1am if you do not have evidence of a full vaccine.
For movement after 1am, you will need to present a vaccination certificate in case challenged by the authorities.
On 1 June 2021, the Government of Jordan announced the reopening of a number of recreational facilities. You may need to present your ID and/or your testing or vaccination record to access some facilities.
The Government of Jordan and the Aqaba Special Economic Zone Authority (ASEZA) announced that, as of 1 July, visitors will not be allowed into Aqaba through customs centres, the land border crossings of Wadi Al-Yatam and Wadi Araba, or the airport, unless:
21 days have passed since receipt of their first dose of a vaccine
or, for those over six years of age, they have received a negative PCR test 72 hours before arrival in Aqaba
Congregational prayer services in mosques on Fridays and church services on Sundays have resumed.
All schools including kindergartens in the country are closed until further notice due to the rise in positive COVID 19 cases.
All schools in Jordan will be operating through distance learning until further notice. Nurseries will remain open during this time.
Transport restrictions have been revised to allow all private vehicles to move freely irrespective of license plate numbers, with public transport to remain operational at 50% capacity.
By law, everyone must comply with social distancing by keeping 1.5 metres away from other people when outside the home, and by wearing gloves and a mask when entering public places such as government buildings, shops, companies and health centres. Failure to comply with these rules is punishable by a fine.
Security authorities are conducting visits to properties of those known to have tested positive in order to ensure isolation compliance. You should follow the instructions of the authorities.
Accommodation
Hotels and private rentals are open and available to book. Many public places have hygiene measures in place, including taking a temperature check and sanitising hands upon entry. Wearing a face mask in public places is mandatory.
Healthcare in Jordan
Several hospitals in Jordan have been designated to treat patients with coronavirus.
The Ministry of Health has a dedicated call centre (111) available 24/7 for residents and citizens to utilise in case of any enquiries regarding coronavirus. In an emergency you can also dial 911.
If you develop coronavirus symptoms or have a known exposure to COVID-19 call 111 or contact a doctor immediately and self-quarantine for 14 days. See our list of medical practitioners in Amman.
The legal status of your medication may be different outside the UK. UK medical prescriptions are not valid in Jordan.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Jordan.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Jordan
Wherever possible British nationals should aim to be vaccinated in the country where they live. As further information is available about the national vaccination programme, this page will be updated. Sign up to get email notifications.
British Nationals resident in Jordan are eligible to receive a vaccine locally. You can register on the Department for Health website.
The Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) is the UK authority responsible for assessing the safety, quality and efficacy of vaccines. It has authorised the Pfizer/BioNTech, Oxford/AstraZeneca and Moderna vaccines for temporary supply and use in the UK. Find out more about MHRA approval for these vaccines.
British nationals living overseas should seek medical advice from their local healthcare provider in the country where they reside. Information about vaccines used in other national programmes, including regulatory status, should be available from the local authorities. This list of Stringent Regulatory Authorities recognised by the World Health Organisation may also be a useful source of additional information. Find out more about COVID-19 vaccines on the World Health Organisation COVID-19 vaccines page.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
For information on coronavirus in Jordan, visit Ministry of Health website.
