The information on this page covers the most common types of travel and reflects the UK government’s understanding of the rules currently in place. Unless otherwise stated, this information is for travellers using a full ‘British Citizen’ passport.
The authorities in the country or territory you’re travelling to are responsible for setting and enforcing the rules for entry. If you’re unclear about any aspect of the entry requirements, or you need further reassurance, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
You should also consider checking with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Entry rules in response to coronavirus (COVID-19)
Entry to Jordan
Passengers who have been in the UK within the previous 14 days, including passengers who have passed through the UK in transit are permitted to enter Jordan and no longer subject to 14 days quarantine on arrival.
All passengers travelling by land and air must provide evidence of a negative PCR test within 72 hours of their scheduled time of departure to Jordan. You should not use the NHS testing service to get a test in order to facilitate your travel to another country. You should arrange to take a private test.
All passengers need to register on the ‘visitjordan’ platform and follow instructions to either book a PCR test on arrival or claim a waiver by uploading evidence that they are fully vaccinated. An NHS Vaccine card, a doctor’s letter or a hospital printout would all be accepted for passengers travelling to Jordan from the UK.
Visitors will not be allowed into Aqaba through customs centres, the land border crossings of Wadi Al-Yatam and Wadi Araba, or the airport, unless:
21 days have passed since receipt of their first dose of a vaccine
or, for those over six years of age, they have received a negative PCR test 72 hours before arrival in Aqaba
The land crossings between Jordan, Israel and the Occupied Palestinian Territories are open for travellers.
Transiting Jordan
Passengers who have been in the UK within the previous 14 days, including passengers who have passed through the UK in transit, are permitted to enter Jordan.
All passengers arriving at Queen Alia Airport Jordan will need to follow instructions set out by government of Jordan.
International transfer passengers are allowed at Jordanian Airports and require:
negative PCR test within 72 hours before arrival
transfer time does not exceed 10 hours
Testing / screening on arrival
All passengers, including Jordanians, arriving in Jordan by special repatriation flights or via land borders will be PCR tested at their own cost. Each passenger must register and pay 28JD for a PCR test.
Anyone who arrives in Jordan without an exemption or evidence of both doses of the COVID-19 vaccination must take a PCR test on arrival. The cost for a PCR test on arrival is 28JD. You will also need to provide evidence of health insurance covering COVID-19.
All passengers need to register on the ‘visitjordan’ platform and follow instructions to either book a PCR test on arrival or claim a waiver by uploading evidence that they are fully vaccinated.
Passengers arriving from the UK who have received both doses of the COVID-19 vaccination are required only to provide a negative PCR test within 72 hours prior to the time of departure and are not required to conduct a PCR test upon arrival at the Airport.
Testing requirements are subject to change with little or no notice.
Demonstrating your COVID-19 vaccination status
Jordan will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 recovery and vaccination record. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
Quarantine requirements
Passengers arriving in to Jordan are no longer subject to quarantine measures. A negative PCR test within 72 hours of their departure is required.
Data collection
The Government have announced that on arrival in Jordan you will need to provide your contact details, travel information and complete passenger health declaration and locator forms. Passengers will be asked to fill out these forms by their chosen airlines. Passengers arriving will need to install Aman.jo application on their mobile device. This will inform the user if they had contact with an infected person, so the user can seek appropriate medical attention.
Testing on departure
There is no testing requirement on departure, although the Government advises travellers to comply with coronavirus regulations in the destination country.
Regular entry requirements
Visas
You’ll need a visa to enter Jordan. You can buy a single entry visa valid for 1 month on arrival at the airports or the Sheikh Hussein/North Border crossing at the Jordan/Israel border.
Check with the Jordanian authorities if you’re planning to cross the Wadi Araba/south border crossing (Aqaba/Eilat) or the Allenby/King Hussein Bridge.
An exit tax, currently 10JD, is payable at all border crossings, except the airports.
If you wish to combine travel to Jordan with a visit to Israel and the Occupied Palestinian Territories, it’s usually better to get a multiple entry visa before you travel from the Embassy of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan in London.
You can extend your visa after you arrive in Jordan up to a maximum period of 6 months. If you overstay your visa you will be fined. You can apply to extend your visa using the following website. Payment is accepted online.
If you’re entering for tourism you can get a combination of a visa and reduced cost entry to the major tourism sites by applying for a Jordan Pass online.
Passport validity
Your passport should be valid for a minimum period of 6 months from the date of entry into Jordan.
Previous travel to Israel
Evidence of a previous visit to Israel like an Israeli entry/exit stamp in your passport does not normally cause any difficulties when entering Jordan. It is, however, for the Jordanian authorities to determine the right of entry into the country. If you have any concerns, you should contact the Consulate of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan in London.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
HIV test
You must undergo an HIV test if you intend to stay in Jordan for more than 30 days, either as a resident or as a long-term visitor. The fee to obtain the health certificate is currently 20 Jordanian Dinars.
Dual nationals
If you are a British/Jordanian national, you are allowed to use your British passport on arrival, but will need to show your Jordanian passport on departure.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK emergency travel documents are accepted for entry, transit and exit from Jordan. However, for entry and transit using an emergency travel document, you’ll need to get a visa from the Jordanian Embassy in the country where the document was issued. For exit using an emergency travel document, you’ll need to get a stamp from the Immigration & Residency department in Amman (not at the airport). A minimum of one month remaining validity is required on an emergency travel document.
