!
Warning
FCDO advises against all travel to parts of Jordan.

The Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) cannot provide tailored advice for individual trips. Read this travel advice and carry out your own research before deciding whether to travel.
Emergency services in Jordan
Telephone: 911 (ambulance, fire, police)
Contact your travel provider and insurer
Contact your travel provider and your insurer if you are involved in a serious incident or emergency abroad. They will tell you if they can help and what you need to do.
Refunds and changes to travel
For refunds or changes to travel, contact your travel provider. You may also be able to make a claim through insurance. However, insurers usually require you to talk to your travel provider first.
Find out more about changing or cancelling travel plans, including:
where to get advice if you are in a dispute with a provider
how to access previous versions of travel advice to support a claim
Thefts
Your insurer may require a police report or crime reference number if you want to make a claim. This usually means you need to report the theft while you are still in the country. If your passport is stolen you must cancel it as soon as possible.
Support from FCDO
FCDO has guidance on staying safe and what to do if you need help or support abroad, including:
finding English-speaking lawyers, funeral directors and translators and interpreters in Jordan
dealing with a death in Jordan
being arrested or imprisoned in Jordan
getting help if you’re a victim of crime
what to do if you’re in hospital
if you’re affected by a crisis, such as a terrorist attack
Contacting FCDO
Follow and contact FCDO travel on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram. You can also sign up to get email notifications when this travel advice is updated.
You can also contact FCDO online.
Help abroad in an emergency
If you’re in Jordan and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the British Embassy in Amman.
FCDO in London
You can call FCDO in London if you need urgent help because something has happened to a friend or relative abroad.
Telephone: 020 7008 5000 (24 hours)
Find out about call charges
Risk information for British companies
The Overseas Business Risk service offers information and advice for British companies operating in Jordan on how to manage political, economic, and business security-related risks.
