At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Coronavirus
Cases of coronavirus (COVID-19) have been confirmed in Jordan. The Jordanian authorities have introduced a number of precautionary measures.
Entry restrictions
On 14 March, the Jordanian Government announced that commercial flights in to and out of Jordan will be stopped and all land and sea borders will be closed at 11.59pm on Monday 16 March. This decision will be reviewed on 30 March.
British nationals in Jordan or intending to travel to Jordan are strongly advised to immediately review their travel plans and consult their insurance provider; tour operator, and transport or accommodation provider about the impact on their plans.
Local measures
On 17 March, the Council of Ministers announced further restrictions to tackle the spread of COVID-19, effective from the morning of 18 March for two weeks:
All public and private sector functions suspended except for: essential health services in both sectors, pharmacies, grocery shops, bakeries, fuel stations.
All malls to be closed, pharmacies and grocery shops in malls to remain open.
Quarantine camps to be established at border crossings for Jordanians entering the country with Jordanians abroad being told to remain where they are.
Residents banned from leaving homes except in extreme cases.
Groupings of more than ten persons banned.
Movement between governorates and cities banned.
All health sector visits and operations to be stopped except for critical or life threatening cases.
Print media to be suspended.
Group Transport services to be suspended.
The Jordanian Armed Forces have in parallel announced that the military will be spread out across the entire country at the entry and exit points of all large towns and cities.
Further information
British nationals in Jordan who are concerned that they may have been in contact with somebody with coronavirus or who are displaying symptoms relating to coronavirus should self-isolate and seek medical advice from a doctor or their insurance provider. Alternatively they can call the Jordanian Ministry of Health Coronavirus Hotline on 111. British nationals in Jordan should comply with local restrictions and monitor local media for updates.
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
You can find more information about cases in Jordan on the TravelHealthPro country page.
Other health risks
Cases of Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus in patients from Jordan have been reported to the World Health Organization. You can find more information on this virus on the website of the National Travel Health Network and Centre.
Temperatures in summer months can be very high. Drink plenty of water and use high factor sun-block.
Local medical care
Medical facilities outside Amman are basic. In an emergency you should seek treatment in Amman. Emergency treatment is also available in Aqaba. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation. A list of medical practitioners is available here.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 911 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
