Local laws reflect the fact that Jordan is a predominantly Islamic country. You should respect local traditions, customs, laws and religions at all times and ensure your actions don’t offend.
In 2023, the month of Ramadan is expected to start on 22 March and finish on 21 April. During Ramadan, Muslims fast from dawn to dusk. Many restaurants remain open in Amman and at major tourist sites and hotels but during this period be aware that eating or drinking in public is likely to cause upset and offence. Some establishments may restrict the sale of alcohol and off licences (liquor stores) will be closed. See Travelling during Ramadan.
The Jordanian government doesn’t interfere with the practice of Christianity but encouraging conversion to the Christian faith is illegal.
Jordan is a conservative society. You should dress modestly and behave courteously.
It’s illegal to drink alcohol on the street but permissible in bars, clubs, hotels and private homes. There are strict alcohol limits for drivers, similar to those of the UK. If you’re found guilty of drink driving you could face a driving ban, a fine or even imprisonment.
Possession, use or trafficking in illegal drugs is a serious offence and can result in a lengthy prison sentence and a heavy fine.
Although co-habitation for unmarried foreign couples isn’t illegal, it may be frowned upon. Some landlords may ask if you are married or ask for a marriage certificate. Under local legislation, children with a Jordanian passport are not permitted to travel outside the country without their father’s consent, even if they enter the country on a British passport.
While Jordanian law does not explicitly prohibit homosexual acts, public displays of affection between homosexual couples are not generally tolerated. You could be arrested under other Jordanian laws. See our information and advice page for the LGBT community before you travel.
We strongly advise against bringing drones to Jordan. Ownership of drones is licensed and gaining a licence is a lengthy process. Any drones brought to Jordan without prior permission will be confiscated by the Jordanian authorities on arrival in the country and stored until the owner’s departure.
