!
Warning
FCDO advises against all travel to parts of Jordan.

This section has safety advice for regions of Jordan. It only covers regions where the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) has specific advice.
You should also read FCDO’s overall travel advice and safety and security advice.
Land border crossings
There are reports of closures of the King Hussein/Allenby bridge crossing between Jordan and the West Bank. You should be aware of the risk of closures of the borders between Jordan and Israel and the West Bank, as well as possible road closures within Jordan, with no notice.
See Israel travel advice and Occupied Palestinian Territories travel advice and check with the Jordanian authorities before crossing.
Border areas
Take care near borders and if you’re crossing into a neighbouring country. Jordanian army and police units patrol the borders with Syria and Iraq and check traffic.
There may be landmines near borders and military installations. Minefields are usually fenced off and marked, but fences and signs may be in a poor state of repair.
Jordan-Syria border
FCDO advises against all travel to within 3km of the border with Syria. The situation in southern Syria is fragile and instability or terrorist activity could start with little or no notice. There are also reports of violent confrontations between smugglers and the Jordan Armed Forces.
The Jaber land border crossing from Jordan into Syria has reopened. Jordanian nationals may use the crossing to return to Jordan from Syria, and Syrian citizens holding a valid Syrian passport or travel document from the Syrian Embassy in Amman may use the crossing to return to Syria. There may be a heavier than usual military presence along the border.
Jordan-Iraq border
FCDO advises against all travel to the provinces in Iraq bordering Jordan. See Iraq travel advice.
Jordan-Israel border
Due to the conflict in Israel and the Occupied Palestinian Territories, several Jordanian organisations hold protests near the border on Fridays. Be particularly cautious in areas close to the border.
