Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

Flights in and out of the country have been suspended, and land and sea borders are closed. The Government of Jordan has confirmed that these measures will remain in place until 25 May, and there are strong indications that the flight suspension and border closures will continue beyond this date.
Some commercial operators have been able, in exceptional cases, to negotiate flights out of Jordan. There are currently two confirmed commercial Royal Jordanian flights to London Heathrow from Queen Alia International Airport. The flights are on 6 and 7 May 2020 at 12:00 and scheduled to arrive at London Heathrow Terminal 2 at 15:25. These are the only options currently available.
Tickets can be booked directly from the Royal Jordanian website.
There is no need to register with the British Embassy for these flights and passengers who have booked tickets are responsible for making their own way to the airport to take these flights. If it is essential for you to move from one governorate to another, you will need to seek a permission from the Governor’s office in the governorate in which you are currently.
There are no further commercial options available to return to the UK from Jordan. If you do not take these flights, you should be prepared to stay in Jordan until the airport reopens for scheduled flights.
In the event that further flights become available, the British Embassy will do all it can to facilitate access to flights for British nationals and provide appropriate support in arranging your departure. In the case of flights departing to a third country, British nationals will need to ensure that onward travel to the UK from the flight’s destination is possible.
This travel advice will be updated if and when departure options become available. Sign up for travel advice email alerts and check travel advice for any country that you will transit on the way back to the UK.
What to do
If you cannot leave Jordan at this time, you should:
follow the advice of local authorities, including local measures to help minimise your risk of exposure to coronavirus
find accommodation suitable for your needs
keep in regular contact with family and friends at home, so they know you are safe and well
consult your insurance provider, tour operator and transport or accommodation provider about the impact of the situation on your plans
See more information and advice about staying where you are if you cannot return to the UK.
Future travel options
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK.
Your journey home
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Help and Support
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British Embassy on +962 (6) 5909200
The Embassy cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone. This page will be updated when departure options become available.
Further information
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
