Coronavirus guidance is being updated.
Read what you can and cannot do

This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Jordan as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Jordan to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Jordan
For information on entry to Jordan, see Entry requirements
The Government of Jordan has introduced and enforced measures to tackle the spread of COVID-19. Measures are regularly reviewed and updated. Follow the instructions of the local authorities.
Under current measures you are able to leave your accommodation between 8am and 7pm. You must return to your accommodation by 7pm. A curfew siren will be sounded at 7pm every day after which point you must not leave your property.
By law, everyone must comply with social distancing by keeping 1.5 metres away from other people when outside the home, and by wearing gloves and a mask when entering public places such as government buildings, shops, companies and health centres. Failure to comply with these rules is punishable by a fine.
There are 24-hour curfews in place every Friday during Ramadan, during which you are not permitted to leave your accommodation. Further full curfews may be announced in the future. While the atmosphere is fairly calm on the streets, with the curfew generally well adhered to, there have been a number of arrests and vehicles impounded for violations.
Travel between governorates is not permitted.
The Jordanian Armed Forces announced that the military will be spread out across the entire country at the entry and exit points of large towns and cities. More stringent measures could be enforced if other hotspot areas are identified.
The government has announced that from 6 May, most sectors of the economy will reopen. However, a number of sectors will remain closed, including places of social gathering like cinemas, cafes and restaurants, places of worship, and schools and universities.
Visas
The Government of Jordan have announced that foreign nationals will not be fined for overstays resulting from border closures.
Health
For medical emergencies, you must call the emergency services on 911 before trying to get to a hospital.
If you are concerned that you may have been in contact with somebody with coronavirus or are displaying symptoms relating to coronavirus, you should self-isolate and seek medical advice from your doctor or insurance provider. Alternatively, call the Jordanian Ministry of Health Coronavirus Hotline on 111 or the Civil Defence Coronavirus line on 193.
For contact details for English speaking doctors, visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Jordan.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Jordan, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
