Coronavirus: stay up to date
Cases of coronavirus (COVID-19) have been confirmed in Jordan. See information on measures introduced in Jordan to limit the spread of the virus. Find out how to return to the UK from Jordan.
See coronavirus travel advice for guidance on international travel.
Sign up for email alerts for Jordan travel advice.
The Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) is advising British nationals against all non-essential international travel at this time. Existing advice for Jordan remains in place:
The FCO advise against all but essential travel to:
within 3km of Jordan’s border with Syria. See Border areas
Cases of coronavirus (COVID-19) have been confirmed in Jordan. The Jordanian authorities have introduced a number of precautionary measures, including restrictions on entry to Jordan. See Coronavirus
The Government of Jordan announced on 20 March further measures to tackle the spread of COVID-19. The Prime Minister imposed a full curfew from 0700 on 21 March until further notice. Anyone violating the curfew will be liable to immediate imprisonment. A very narrow exception to the curfew has been authorised by the Prime Minister for those whose work is necessary to keep the country running. While the atmosphere is fairly calm on the streets, with the curfew generally well adhered to, there have been a number of arrests for violations of it.
The Jordanian Armed Forces announced that the military will be spread out across the entire country at the entry and exit points of large towns and cities.
All shops are now closed and the government will announce when and how citizens will be able to obtain food and other essential provisions.
All health sector visits and operations have been stopped except for critical or life threatening cases. For medical emergencies, you must call the emergency services on 911 before trying to get to a hospital. See Health
On 14 March, the Jordanian Government announced that commercial flights in to and out of Jordan will be stopped and all land and sea borders will be closed at 11.59pm on Monday 16 March. This decision is due to be reviewed on 30 March.
The Central Bank of Jordan announced on 17 March that banks will be closed until 31 March. ATM machines will remain available and continue to be refilled. Citizens and those in Jordan are currently not permitted to visit ATMs due to the curfew. See Money
Around 95,800 British nationals visited Jordan in 2019. Most visits are trouble free.
Following the attack on the coalition base at Taji in Iraq on 11 March, and subsequent US strikes, tensions may be raised across the region. There is a possibility of an increased threat against Western interests, including against UK citizens. You should remain vigilant and keep up to date with the latest developments, including via the media and this travel advice.
The political situation in Jordan is stable. However, protests and demonstrations sometimes occur; and feelings are running higher because of the pandemic The majority of demonstrations are peaceful, but you should take sensible precautions and avoid all political gatherings and demonstrations. Follow the advice of local authorities and stay informed of the security situation through the media and this travel advice.
Terrorists are very likely to try to carry out attacks in Jordan. There have been a number of incidents since 2016, some serious. Attacks could be indiscriminate including in places visited by foreigners, particularly hotels, shopping malls and tourist sites. You should take extra care, and in the event of an incident, follow the advice of the Jordanian authorities. See Terrorism
Local laws reflect the fact that Jordan is a predominantly Islamic country. You should respect local traditions, customs, laws and religions at all times and be aware of your actions to ensure that they don’t offend.
You can contact the emergency services by calling 911.
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission. Consular support is limited in the border areas of Jordan where the FCO advise against all but essential travel, as set out above.
Take out comprehensive travel and medical insurance before travelling.
