Terrorists are very likely to try to carry out attacks in Jordan. Attacks could be indiscriminate including in places visited by foreigners, particularly hotels, shopping malls and tourist sites.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out more about the global threat from terrorism.
There has been a number of incidents in recent years, most of which have targeted local security forces. The most high profile of these included:
On 6 November 2019, an individual armed with a knife carried out an attack in the Roman site in Jerash, which is a popular tourist site. The attack resulted in injuries to 8 people before the police intervened to arrest the perpetrator
On 10 August 2018, an explosive device destroyed a gendarmerie vehicle in Fuheis, killing 2 officers and injuring several others
On 18 December 2016, 10 people were killed, including 3 civilians, and at least 29 injured in a terrorist attack in Kerak; it’s not clear if tourists were deliberately targeted
In June 2016, 5 people were killed after a Daesh (formerly referred to as ISIL) -inspired gunman gained access to the General Intelligence Directorate’s base in Baqa’a, 10km north of Amman city centre. There was also an explosion near Rukban on the north-eastern border resulting in some 20 casualties.
The authorities in Jordan have successfully disrupted a number of planned attacks and made a number of arrests.
You should be vigilant at all times and keep updated on the situation in the country through local media and travel reports, and by subscribing for updates to this travel advice.
There’s a heightened threat of terrorist attack globally against UK interests and British nationals, from groups or individuals motivated by the conflict in Iraq and Syria.
Kidnaps are unlikely to take place in Jordan.
Nonetheless, terrorist groups (including Daesh) operating in Syria and Iraq routinely use kidnapping as a tactic. Terrorist organisations are present in Syria and Iraq near the Jordanian border, so you should be particularly vigilant if you are in these border locations.
In these locations, British nationals are viewed as legitimate targets, including those engaged in tourism, humanitarian aid work, journalism or business sectors.
If you’re kidnapped the reason for your presence is unlikely to serve as a protection or secure your safe release.
The long-standing policy of the British government is not to make substantive concessions to hostage takers. The British government considers that paying ransoms and releasing prisoners builds the capability of terrorist groups and finances their activities. This can, in turn, increase the risk of further hostage-taking. The Terrorism Act (2000) makes payments to terrorists illegal.
