!
Warning
FCDO advises against all travel to parts of Jordan.

Your travel insurance could be invalidated if you travel against advice from the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO). 
Areas where FCDO advises against travel
Jordan-Syria border
FCDO advises against all travel to within 3km of the border with Syria.
Regional risks 
Ongoing hostilities in the region and between Israel and Iran could escalate quickly and pose security risks for the wider region. There are reports of military debris falling in various locations. Iran aligned militia groups are also likely to continue to conduct attacks. 
The current situation has disrupted air links and may disrupt road links and border crossings. Demonstrations and protest activity may take place.
You should: 
monitor local and international media for the latest information 
be vigilant and follow the instructions of local authorities 
take shelter and stay away from windows if you hear air sirens. In the event of injuries or damage, call 911 immediately
See safety and security page.
Jordanian airspace is open but airports and airspace may close at short notice. Before you travel: 
if you are in Jordan, contact your airline and follow the advice of the local authorities 
if you are not yet in country, check with your airline
There are three land border crossings from Israel and the Occupied Palestinian Territories.  They are open most days from 8 or 8.30am.  Closures may happen at no notice, including over the weekend.
King Hussein/Allenby Bridge
The Northern (Sheikh Hussein/Bet Shean) crossing
The Southern (Wadi Araba) crossing
Those traveling from Israel and the OPTs should refer to Israel travel advice - GOV.UK
See Entry requirements page 
Read FCDO advice if you’re affected by a crisis abroad.
Before you travel
No travel can be guaranteed safe. Read all the advice in this guide. You may also find it helpful to: 
see general advice for women travellers
read our guide on disability and travel abroad
see general advice for LGBT+ travellers
read about safety for solo and independent travel
see advice on volunteering and adventure travel abroad
Travel insurance
If you choose to travel, research your destinations and get appropriate travel insurance. Insurance should cover your itinerary, planned activities and expenses in an emergency.
About FCDO travel advice
FCDO provides advice about risks of travel to help you make informed decisions. Find out more about FCDO travel advice.
Get travel advice updates
Sign up to get email notifications when this travel advice is updated.
Follow FCDO:   
travel advice on X
travel advice on Facebook
Travel Aware on Instagram
