Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Gabon on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
Flight restrictions have eased to allow two international flights per airline, per week. Check with your travel company for the latest information.
For foreign nationals wishing to leave Gabon, you need to obtain a letter of permission (“authorisation de sortie”) from the Gabonese Government and have proof of a negative coronavirus test prior to departure.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Gabon.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19 while in Gabon you will be contacted by local authorities. If visiting, you will have to go to one of the hotels which the government of Gabon has nominated for isolation. This applies to all visitors, including those under 18. There is no assistance available from the government for people who need to leave these hotels for any reason. British nationals resident in Gabon who test positive are required to isolate at home and dial the toll free number 1410 for further instructions.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Gabon
The Gabonese government has extended the state of health emergency indefinitely. Domestic flight restrictions have eased to allow two flights per airline per week. PCR tests no older than 14 days are required for residents of Gabon who wish to travel within the country. Markets have reopened as normal.
The Grand (Greater) Libreville area comprising of the 4 municipalities of Libreville, Owendo, Akanda and Ntoum is in confinement or lockdown. Travel in and out of the Grand Libreville area is restricted. Holders of COVID-19 vaccination certificates can travel within the Greater Libreville without restrictions during curfew hours.
There is a daily curfew from 9pm to 5am. People holding a Laissez-Passer (a pass issued to people carrying out essential services during curfew hours) will have to renew this via a new internet platform laissezpassercovid19@gouv.ga. New passes with a QR code will soon be available, to avoid counterfeiting.
You must wear a mask in public areas.
Taxis are only permitted to carry up to three passengers.
Failure to comply with the measures above would constitute a criminal offence and can lead to fines or community service. Check points exist along roads to enforce the above measures.
Accommodation
Hotels have reopened.
Public places and services
Markets have reopened as normal.
Restaurants with a terrace have reopened. A valid negative COVID-19 tests or vaccination certificate is compulsory for access to a restaurant. Standard tests are now free of charge, but results are released after 3-5 days. There is a VIP faster option for CFA 20 000, approximately £27.00, with results available within 24 hours.
Gatherings of more than 30 people are banned, however, parliament and educational institutions are exempt from this limit.
All place of worship can only open one day a week. Places of worship with a maximum of 30 people have to observe the ‘sanitary protocol’ which includes compulsory wearing of masks, hand sanitisation, and social distancing.
Schools will close at 5pm each day to comply with general curfew. Hospital visits are forbidden without authorisation from medical authorities.
Bars and motels have reopened until 8:30pm.
Access to restaurants and places of worship is subject to presentation of negative PCR test or a valid COVID-19 vaccination certificate.
Wearing of masks in public is compulsory from the age of 5 years old.
Healthcare in Gabon
Pharmacies and health centres remain open.
Government of Gabon advice for anyone experiencing Covid-19 symptoms is to avoid immediately going to hospital and instead dial a toll free number (1410) and follow their instructions. If Covid-19 is suspected, an ambulance will be sent to collect the patient and to take them to one of the designated Covid-19 hospitals.
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Gabon
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Gabon
We will update this page when the Government of Gabon announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Gabon national vaccine programme started in March 2021 and is using the Sinopharm and Sputnik V vaccines. The Government of Gabon has stated that British nationals resident in Gabon are eligible for vaccination if they choose to join the programme. Further information on the vaccination programme is available by dialling the toll-free number 1314.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in Gabon, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British High Commission Yaoundé on +442070085000 / +237 222220545.
The High Commission cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone. This page will be updated when UK and commercial departure options become available. To get the latest information, sign up for travel advice email alerts.
Further information
For further information and to keep up to date, you should also check the Government of Gabon website.
