This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Gabon set and enforce entry rules. For further information contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to. You should also consider checking with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Entry rules in response to coronavirus (COVID-19)
Entry to Gabon
The Government of Gabon has now eased flight restrictions have eased to allow five flights per airline, per week. Land and sea borders are closed.
All passengers travelling to Gabon must present a valid negative polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test no older than 72 hours and 3 days or a valid COVID-19 vaccination certificate for entry into Gabon. See ‘Demonstrating your COVID-19 status’. Before arrival, passengers must have a confirmed quarantine hotel reservation for 5 days. The hotel must be listed here: https://voyageurs.assistcovid19.ga/home. This does not apply to passengers younger than 6 years old; passengers with a diplomatic passport; or passengers with a COVID-19 vaccination certificate showing that they were fully vaccinated.
All passengers must complete a ‘COVID-19 Registration’ form before departure. The form can be found at https://www.libreville-aeroport.com/en/covid-registration/ or on occasion available at the airport.
On arrival, all passengers must take a compulsory test for COVID-19 at Libreville Airport at their own expense (CFA20,000). Non-vaccinated passengers are required to self-isolate for 5 days in designated hotels at their own expense whilst the COVID-19 test is being processed. Passports will be retained by the immigration authorities during this time and returned after successful completion of the isolation time. If the COVID-19 test is negative, passengers will be able to leave quarantine and issued a test certificate, which is valid for 14 days and can be renewed at the end of this period after another test is undertaken.
If a COVID-19 test taken at the airport is positive, then passengers are required to continue self-isolation and await specific instructions from Gabonese health authorities. Visitors to Gabon will have to go to one of the hotels which the government of Gabon has nominated for isolation. British nationals resident in Gabon who test positive are required to isolate at home and dial the toll free number 1410 for further instructions.
Holders of vaccination certificates still have to undergo the compulsory testing but can self-isolate in the facility of their choice and do not have to leave their passport.
All COVID-19 tests taken in Gabon supersede any that were taken before arrival in Gabon.
Passengers travelling on a diplomatic passport and their travel orders must comply with the mandatory PCR testing at the airport (CFA 20,000), but do not quarantine in a government-designated hotel and do not leave their passport at the airport. This applies whether the diplomat is vaccinated or not.
Demonstrating your COVID-19 status
Gabon will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 recovery and vaccination record. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
Visas
On 16 March 2020, the Government of Gabon announced the suspension of tourist visas for EU nationals. Effective January 2022 the ban on tourist visas for UK nationals was lifted. All Gabon diplomatic missions abroad are prohibited from issuing business entry visas to Gabon without a letter of invitation. For full information on the visa application process, visit the website of the Gabonese Embassy in the UK.
The Government of Gabon confirmed it would not penalise British nationals whose visas have expired while they were unable to leave the country whilst borders were closed. Now that commercial flights are running, if your visa has expired, you should consider leaving the country.
Regular entry requirements
Visas
You will need a visa to visit Gabon. For full information on the visa application process, visit the website of the Gabonese Embassy in the UK.
If you’re arriving into Libreville International Airport you can submit an online visa application at least 72 hours before the date of travel and collect your visa on arrival. You will need to show a letter of invitation during this process. Payment for e-visa is made at Libreville International Airport. For more information, visit the website of the Gabonese Embassy in the UK.
If you’re arriving into Libreville International Airport you can submit an online visa application at least 72 hours before the date of travel and collect your visa on arrival. You will need to show a letter of invitation during this process. Payment for e-visa is made at Libreville International Airport. For more information, visit the Gabonese government’s immigration portal.
Passport validity
Your passport should be valid for a minimum period of six months from the date of entry into Gabon.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are not valid for entry into Gabon but ETDs are accepted for airside transit and exit from Gabon.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
