At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Coronavirus
Cases of coronavirus (COVID-19) have been confirmed in Gabon. The Gabonese authorities have introduced a number of measures to limit the spread of the virus. The Gabonese authorities have announced restrictions on all international flights, which restrict each airline to one flight per week until further notice. All land borders have been closed indefinitely. Visa applications for individuals travelling from counties affected by coronavirus, including the UK, have been suspended until further notice.
Visitors arriving from countries affected by coronavirus, including the UK, will be required to self-isolate for a minimum of 15 days on arrival. Individuals testing positive for coronavirus, or who have come into contact with anyone who has tested positive, will be required to enter quarantine in a government-run facility.
Gatherings of more than 30 people have been banned.
Failure to comply with the measures above would constitute a criminal offence.
You should comply with any additional screening measures put in place by the authorities and keep up to date with information from your tour operator, transport or accommodation provider on the impact on any existing travel plans.
If you need further information about entry requirements, contact the local immigration authorities or the nearest Gabonese Embassy. You should also check with your airline or travel company for the latest information.
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
Other health risks
UK health authorities have classified Gabon as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For information and advice about the risks associated with Zika virus, visit the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
The Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS) estimates that around 44,000 adults aged 15 or over in Gabon are living with HIV; the prevalence percentage is estimated at 3.8% of the adult population compared with the prevalence percentage in adults in the UK of around 0.2%. You should exercise normal precautions to avoid exposure to HIV/AIDS.
Medical treatment
Medical facilities are limited, particularly in rural areas. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 1300 or 1399 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment. 
