Coronavirus guidance is being updated.
Read the Prime Minister’s address for the latest information.

There are currently no commercial options available to return to the UK from Gabon. Gabon’s land, sea and air borders are closed and international flights suspended until further notice.
We know this is concerning for British people trying to leave Gabon. The UK government is working closely with airlines, the Gabonese authorities and other governments to make sure options are available for you to return to the UK as soon as possible.
What to do
If you cannot leave Gabon at this time, you should:
Follow the advice of local authorities, including local measures to help minimise your risk of exposure to coronavirus;
Find accommodation that’s suitable for your needs;
Keep in regular contact with family and friends at home, so they know you are safe and well.
See more information and advice about staying where you are if you cannot return to the UK.
Future travel options
The UK government is working closely with airlines, the Gabonese authorities and other governments to make sure options are available for you to return to the UK as soon as possible.
A number of chartered repatriation flights organised by foreign governments have successfully left Gabon and there may be further flights arranged. There are occasionally places available on these for British Nationals.
Information about these flights is generally only available at short notice therefore you should e-mail ConsularYaoundeEnquiries@fco.gov.uk with your full name, date of birth, passport number, address in the UK, any medical conditions, telephone number and e-mail address if you are seeking to leave Gabon.
For foreign nationals wishing to leave Gabon, a letter of permission from the Gabonese Government is needed before departure.
This travel advice will be updated when chartered or commercial departure options become available.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Your journey home
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British High Commission Yaoundé on Twitter and Facebook to receive the latest information.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British High Commission Yaoundé on +442070081500 / +237 222220545.
The High Commission cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone. This page will be updated when UK and commercial departure options become available. To get the latest information, sign up for travel advice email alerts.
Further information
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
