

Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.    
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Gabon
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Gabon, attacks cannot be ruled out.  
Political situation
There was a military takeover in Gabon following elections in August 2023. This may lead to protests and unrest and the situation could change quickly without warning. A curfew is currently in place each night. During periods of unrest, police checks may increase. Make sure you have all required documentation with you and avoid large gatherings. 
Borders have reopened following the military takeover, but some disruption may happen. Contact your travel provider for more information and follow instructions from local authorities.
You should:
follow the advice of the local authorities and your travel provider
monitor local media and follow any curfew restrictions
remain vigilant and stay indoors where possible
avoid protests or large gatherings and any military activity
Detention of tourists
Political and security tensions following the 30 August military coup resulted in some tourists being held and questioned about their reasons for travelling to Gabon. Some individuals had their passports taken and were briefly prevented from leaving the country. While the situation has stabilised, current political and security sensitivities mean that the authorities may treat tourists with heightened scrutiny.
Protests
Protests in Gabon are not common but happen on occasion and may turn violent without warning. You should avoid all demonstrations and rallies and remain vigilant during periods of unrest.
Crime
There have been incidents of robbery, armed attacks and rape in Gabon.
You can take steps to reduce your risk and help protect your belongings, including:
avoiding remote areas, particularly after dark
being cautious on quiet or isolated beaches around Libreville, and avoiding them at night
not wearing expensive jewellery or carrying large amounts of cash
keeping smartphones and other electronic items out of sight
keeping car windows shut and doors locked
Taxis
Taxis in Gabonese cities operate like buses, picking up more passengers if there is room in the car. They often take indirect routes. There have been reports of violent assaults and robberies on taxi passengers. Use licensed taxis, and ask to book the taxi exclusively so it does not pick up other passengers. Check with your tour operator or travel provider if they have a taxi service you can use.
Carjacking
There have been reports of carjackings in Libreville. If you’re a victim of an attack, stay calm and surrender your valuables and your vehicle if asked. Do not resist.
To reduce your risk:  
check your route for any hazards or disruptions before you set off   
keep to main roads and park in well-lit areas
keep your doors locked and windows closed while driving, especially when stopped at junctions
avoid being stationary inside your vehicle for long periods
check your car is locked when you leave it
keep valuables out of sight, ideally in the boot
do not pick up strangers
Money and credit card fraud
Credit cards are not widely accepted except at hotels. Credit card fraud is common outside the major hotel chains. Be alert when paying by card and withdrawing cash from ATMs.
Laws and cultural differences
Personal ID
By law, you need to be able to show proof of your identity to the authorities if asked. Carry your passport and visa, or a certified copy of the photo and visa pages of your passport.
Illegal drugs and prison sentences
Possession of drugs is a serious offence and punishment can be severe, including a prison sentence.
Using cameras in secure areas
Photography of government and military buildings and airports is illegal and may lead to arrest.
LGBT+ travellers
Same-sex sexual activity is not illegal. There are no laws against discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation. Gabon remains a conservative society and discrimination can be a problem for those open about their sexual identity. Same-sex marriage is not recognised in Gabon.
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Transport risks
Road travel  
If you are planning to drive in Gabon, see information on driving abroad.
You’ll need to have both the correct version of the international driving permit (IDP) and your UK driving licence with you in the car. 
Driving conditions in Gabon 
Road conditions in the centre of Libreville are generally good. Conditions in local inland areas are poor and driving can be hazardous. During the rainy season from October to mid-December and mid-February to May, many roads are passable only with a 4-wheel-drive vehicle. Avoid travelling by road at night as many roads are unlit.
Official checkpoints are common. Police will ask for your passport, driving licence and vehicle registration documents. See more information on drivers being stopped by police (in French). Your car should also have a:
first aid kit
fire extinguisher
catalytic converter
warning triangle
torch
set of wheel chocks
Air travel
British government employees do not use domestic flights run by Gabonese airline companies unless this is unavoidable.       
Sea travel
Pirates have carried out armed attacks on commercial shipping vessels in the Gulf of Guinea. Take extreme care when travelling in coastal waters.
