This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Gabon as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in COUNTRY to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Gabon
The State of Emergency was lifted on 11 May. Restrictions on travel within the Grande Libreville area have been lifted. Travel outside Libreville to inland Gabon remains restricted. Markets have reopened as normal.
There is a daily curfew from 6pm to 6am.
Gatherings of more than 10 people are banned.
You must wear a mask in public areas.
Failure to comply with the measures above would constitute a criminal offence and can lead to fines or community service. Check points exist along roads to enforce the above measures.
Schools re-opened on 15 June.
Visas
The Government of Gabon has confirmed it will not penalise British nationals whose visas have expired while they are unable to leave the country due to the borders being closed. Immigration Police will not pursue you if this is your situation. You will be allowed to leave the country freely when able to, and this will not affect your chances of being granted a visa in the future.
Health
Pharmacies and health centres remain open.
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Gabon
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Gabon, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
