The FCDO advises against all but essential travel to:
the whole of Gabon based on the current assessment of COVID-19 risks.
Travel to Gabon is subject to entry restrictions
Flight restrictions have eased to allow two international flights per airline, per week. Land and sea borders are closed
All Gabon diplomatic missions abroad are prohibited from issuing entry visas to Gabon, without special authorisation
UK nationals must receive authorisation from the Gabonese Ministry of Foreign Affairs before travelling to Gabon. Authorisation can be obtained by sending an e-mail addressed to the ‘Minister’ or ‘Secretary General’ at the following e-mail address: ginetedzang2@gmail.com
All passengers travelling to Gabon must present a valid negative polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test no older than 3 days or a valid vaccination certificate for entry into Gabon
On arrival, all passengers must take a compulsory Coronavirus (COVID-19) test at the airport
Passengers are required to self-isolate for 24 hours in a state-designated facility whilst the COVID-19 test is being processed. Holders of valid COVID-19 vaccination certificates are exempt from the compulsory testing and self-isolation.
If the COVID-19 test is negative, passengers will be issued with a test certificate valid for 14 days, which can be renewed after another test is undertaken
If the COVID-19 test is positive, passengers are required to continue self-isolation and await specific instructions by Gabonese health authorities. All COVID-19 tests taken in Gabon supersede any that were taken before arrival in Gabon
See Entry requirements for more information before you plan to travel.
Returning to the UK
Gabon is on the amber list for entering England. Check what you must do to enter England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
If you’re planning travel to Gabon, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCDO’s guidance on foreign travel insurance.
For information about COVID-19 vaccines, see the Coronavirus page.
The Gabonese Government has extended the state of health emergency indefinitely.
Political stability in Gabon remains uncertain ever since the result of the 2016 presidential election, with violent clashes occurring between demonstrators and security forces at that time. Protests are less common now but happen on occasion and may quickly turn violent without warning. You should avoid all demonstrations and rallies and remain vigilant during periods of unrest. See Political situation.
During periods of unrest, police checks may increase. Make sure you have all required documentation with you and avoid large gatherings.
Consular support may be limited in Gabon. However, the British High Commission in Yaoundé, Cameroon or Honorary Consul in Libreville can provide consular support to British nationals. See Consular assistance
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Gabon, attacks can’t be ruled out. See Terrorism
UK health authorities have classified Gabon as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For information and advice about the risks associated with Zika virus, visit the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
