Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Montenegro on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
There are currently no direct commercial flights operating between the UK and Montenegro, but there are a number of indirect flight options. You should contact your airline before you travel to confirm your flight is going ahead as scheduled.
For more information about your rights, visit the Citizen’s Advice Bureau website. For help resolving problems with a flight booking, visit the website of the Civil Aviation Authority. For questions about travel insurance, contact your insurance provider and if you are not happy with their response, you can complain to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Montenegro.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Montenegro to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Land border crossings may close at short notice and entry to neighbouring countries may be subject to entry requirements.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
Check what you must do to travel abroad and return to England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements. You should contact the Ministry of Health for information on testing facilities.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
If you test positive for COVID-19 while in Montenegro you and your contacts will be required to self-isolate for 14 days. There is further information on this process in the Healthcare section below.
Coronavirus healthcare in Montenegro
If you develop any coronavirus symptoms or are concerned about your health you should either go to a COVID health centre where an initial check will determine whether you should be tested for COVID-19 immediately or referred to a local specialist clinic, or contact the Institute of Public Health hotline 1616 from 8am to 8pm on weekdays and 10am to 4pm on weekends. Call handlers will be able to assess the risks you have been exposed to and provide further recommendations and instructions.
People requiring a PCR test for non-COVID reasons, such as admission to a hospital for an injury, can be tested at Hygienic and Epidemiological Departments of local health centres.
If you test positive for COVID-19 you and your contacts will be required to self-isolate for 14 days in your current accommodation where possible. A healthcare worker and a sanitary inspector will contact you using the phone number or email address you used for your COVID-19 test. The local authorities will inform the manager or owner of your accommodation of the need for you to self-isolate and advise them of the measures they will need to take. If you are unable to stay in your accommodation or find an alternative, local authorities will advise on where you can self-isolate. You will have to cover the costs of your accommodation, but SARS-CoV-2 medical treatment at state hospitals in Montenegro will be provided free of charge to all registered foreign tourists. See Registration. These measures apply to both children and adults.
Violation of these measures is a criminal offence.
You can request and obtain a PCR, quick antigen or serology tests for COVID at your own expense from these private laboratories in Montenegro.
Contact details for public and private medical facilities are available from this non-exhaustive list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Montenegro.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Travel in Montenegro
For information on entering Montenegro, see Entry Requirements. A number of restrictions to prevent the spread of the virus have been put in place by the Montenegrin Government, on the advice of the Institute for Public Health. These measures may change at short notice either at national or at local level. You should check local guidance for further information and details about restrictions in Montenegro.
Public spaces and services
Wearing facemasks or coverings is mandatory in indoor public spaces throughout Montenegro, and outdoors where it is not possible to keep a physical distance of at least 2 metres. Children 5 years old and younger are exempt from this requirement. Non-compliance is punishable by law and subject to fines ranging from €100 to €2,000.
Visiting people in healthcare institutions remains banned. Visits to those in custody or serving prison sentences are only permitted for lawyers and immediate family members. Visits to persons accommodated in social and child protection institutions are allowed, in accordance with the current epidemiological measures.
Entry to indoor spaces in cafes, restaurants, shopping centres and some large shops, office buildings, nightclubs and sporting and cultural venues requires one of the following:
proof you have been fully vaccinated against COVID-19, with a gap of at least 14 days since the second dose (or the first, if it is a one dose vaccine)
proof you have recovered from coronavirus within the last 180 days (result of a positive PCR or a rapid antigen test with a gap of at least 14 days since the test).
a negative PCR test less than 72 hours old, or a negative rapid antigen test less than 48 hours old
Private celebrations such as weddings or birthdays are allowed (both outdoors and indoors) with a limit of 50 people. Each person present must be able to provide one of the above.
Gatherings of more than 50 adults in open public spaces are forbidden.
Funerals can be conducted with no more than 10 people present, and no condolence gatherings are allowed.
Renting private houses or flats is banned for groups of more than 2 people, unless they are from the same household.
Working from home is recommended wherever possible. Otherwise flexible working hours and reduced physical contact between employees is recommended, especially for those facing greater risks should they contract COVID-19.
The full list of measures is available in English on the Montenegrin government website and in Montenegrin at the specialised COVID response website. The latest information on case numbers is available on the website for the Institute of Public Health.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Montenegro
We will update this page when the Government of Montenegro announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Montenegrin national vaccination programme is using the Sinopharm, AstraZeneca, Pfizer-BioNTech, and Sputnik V vaccines. The Government of Montenegro has stated that British nationals resident in Montenegro are eligible for vaccination if they choose to join the programme. This is not dependent on citizenship or whether you are insured with the Montenegrin Health Fund.
The Montenegrin authorities have created an e-portal with information about the local COVID-19 vaccination programme (only available in Montenegrin). Vaccination in Montenegro continues at vaccination centres across the country. Residents of Montenegro can attend with their identity documents without a need for advance registration, every day from 8am to 8pm.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in Montenegro, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
