The information on this page covers the most common types of travel and reflects the UK government’s understanding of the rules currently in place. Unless otherwise stated, this information is for travellers using a full ‘British Citizen’ passport.
The authorities in the country or territory you are travelling to are responsible for setting and enforcing the rules for entry. If you are unclear about any aspect of the entry requirements, or you need further reassurance, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
You should also consider checking with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Under Montenegrin law you must carry a valid form of ID with you at all times, for example a driving licence, passport or equivalent, otherwise you may be fined. Keep a photocopy of your passport in a safe place.
Entry rules in response to coronavirus (COVID-19)
Entry to Montenegro
You can only enter Montenegro if you fall into one of these categories:
(i) You hold temporary or permanent residency for Montenegro. You may be subject to a mandatory 14-day quarantine in state-arranged accommodation, or mandatory self-isolation at home, if you have coronavirus symptoms or have spent time in the last 15 days in a country with a high incidence of coronavirus. These measures are currently waived for those returning from visiting neighbouring countries for less than 48 hours. If you are returning from visits to neighbouring countries, you can enter without any a PCR or ELISA test if you did not stay there for more than 48 hours. On return to Montenegro, you would be free to travel within Montenegro but your health status would be monitored for symptoms. Decisions will be made at the discretion of sanitary inspectors.
(ii) You have spent the last 15 days in a country on the “green list” of countries. If you are not displaying symptoms of coronavirus you should not be required to spend time in self-isolation or quarantine, although this decision is at the discretion of sanitary inspectors at the point of entry. As of 6 November the following countries are on this “green list”: The United Kingdom, EU Member States (Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Italy, Ireland, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain and Sweden) and Algeria, Andorra, Angola, Azerbaijan, Barbados, Belarus, Brunei, Cambodia, Canada, China, Cuba, Egypt, Fiji, Georgia, Iceland, Indonesia, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Liechtenstein, Madagascar, Malaysia, Mauritius, Monaco, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Nepal, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Norway, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Philippines, Russia, Senegal, South Korea, Switzerland, Tajikistan, Thailand, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, United Arab Emirates, Ukraine, Uruguay, Uzbekistan, Vietnam, Zambia and Zimbabwe. International road, maritime and air traffic is only operating with these countries.
(iii) You have spent the last 15 days in a country on the “yellow list” of countries. If this is the case you are only permitted to enter Montenegro if you present a negative PCR test for novel coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2) or a positive coronavirus antibody test result (SARS-CoV-2) of the IgG class obtained by ELISA serologic test, performed within 72 hours of arrival. If you are not displaying symptoms of coronavirus you should not be required to spend time in self-isolation or quarantine, although this decision is at the discretion of sanitary inspectors at the point of entry. As of 6 November the following countries are on this second list: Albania, Australia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Israel, Kosovo, Lebanon, North Macedonia, Serbia, Seychelles, Singapore and the USA. The requirement to be tested before entering Montenegro does not apply to children under five years old, and is currently waived for residents of Montenegro who visited neighbouring countries for less than 48 hours.
(iv) You fit into one of the categories exempted from the above measures. These categories include those driving freight vehicles, accredited diplomats, staff of international organisations, military personnel, healthcare and humanitarian workers, those in need of humanitarian assistance and certain categories of passengers in transit. Passengers seeking this exemption must be apply for it from the Institute of Public Health and receive approval prior to travelling.
Residents of neighboring countries from the ‘yellow list’ can transit through Montenegro without a PCR or ELISA test. Transit is classified as driving through the country without stopping. There is a central database where your point and time of entry are recorded and you will be checked when you exit.
Please check for latest lists and details of entry criteria on the website of the Government of Montenegro.
Several border crossings with Bosnia and Herzegovina (Scepan Polje-Hum, on the road Pluzine-Foca) and Serbia (Vuca-Godovo) are closed. Border crossing Meteljka-Metaljka on the road Pljevlja-Cajnice is now opened for crossings from 7am to 7pm. International rail traffic has resumed.
Non-commercial air transport of up to 10 seats (general aviation) is exempt from this ban. Crew members and passengers not arriving from a “green list” country need to have a PCR or ELISA test for SARS-CoV-2, which is not older than 72 hours.
Full details of the exemption are on the Montenegrin Government website.
Permanent residence permits, temporary residence permits and temporary residence and work permits for foreigners, which have expired, will be considered as valid until 7 October 2020, if other conditions prescribed by law are met.
Foreigners without residence permits and visas, whose right to stay for up to 90 days expired after 15 March 2020, are allowed to stay in Montenegro until 7 October 2020.
Quarantine requirements
Additional measures may be imposed. Individuals who have had contact with someone diagnosed with coronavirus, or suspected to be infected with coronavirus will be subject to quarantine.
All those who were quarantined or self-isolating and who test positive for the coronavirus and are unable to continue self-isolation in their place of residence will be subjected to compulsory institutional isolation. The same rule applies for those who have received hospital treatment for coronavirus and recovered but have not passed two sequential negative coronavirus results; and to those who arrived in Montenegro from abroad and subsequently tested positive for the coronavirus.
You should comply with any additional screening and other measures put in place by the authorities to monitor and limit the spread of the virus. Violation of these measures is a criminal offence. Additional measures may be introduced at short notice.
Regular entry requirements
Visas
You can enter Montenegro for short-term stays of up to 90 days without a visa. The Montenegrin law considers “stays of 90 days” as 90 days in total in a 180-day period, counted from the first entry date.
On entering Montenegro, make sure the border police put an entry stamp in your passport. This helps avoid problems related to verifying the length of your stay in the country.
If you are in the UK and you would like to consult if and what type of Montenegrin visa you need before you travel, contact the Montenegrin Embassy in London.
If you wish to extend your stay once in Montenegro, you will need to apply for a visa or a temporary residence permit from the Montenegrin Ministry of Interior Affairs no later than one week before the 90-day period expires.
Passport validity
Your passport should be undamaged and in accordance with local law should be issued in the last 10 years and valid for at least 3 months after your planned date of departure from Montenegro.
If you hold dual citizenship, the Montenegrin authorities will consider you a citizen of the issuing state of the passport with which you entered Montenegro.
Border crossings
Only enter Montenegro through recognised border crossings.
If you are planning a mountaineering tour which involves crossing borders other than at an official border crossing point, contact the National Tourist Organisation for advice.
There may be additional delays on roads approaching the border crossings between Montenegro and neighbouring countries, given coronavirus-related restrictions. See Staying during Coronavirus section for further details.
Registration
By law you must register with the local police or tourism organisation in the town/city where you are staying within 24 hours of your arrival in Montenegro, unless you are staying in a hotel or other commercial accommodation where you’ll be registered automatically on checking in.
If you do not register you may be fined, detained or face a court appearance.
Customs requirements
The Montenegro Customs Administration advises travellers of the main regulations regarding import of food, medicines, flora and fauna species, animals, tobacco and alcoholic beverages and firearms, in their downloadable guide.
Although there is no limit to the amount of money you can bring into Montenegro, you should declare sums of money in excess of €10,000 (including travellers’ cheques or equivalent in other currencies). To take more than €10,000 out of the country you will need to provide proof that you brought the money in. Customs Officers at all border points issue declaration forms. On departure, you will need to return a certified copy of this declaration to customs. For sums of money in excess of €15,000 you should also have obtained a document which states the origin of the funds. If you fail to comply with these rules, your money may be confiscated.
To avoid customs charges, declare items of value like expensive jewellery, photographic and computer equipment.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents are accepted by Montenegrin authorities for entry, airside transit and exit from Montenegro and are valid forms of identity documents in Montenegro.
