At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For more information on controlled and legal medicines, contact The Montenegro Customs Administration or Montenegrin Agency for Medicines and Medical Devices. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging with your doctor’s prescription.
While pharmacies across the country stock a good supply of medicines, not all medicines prescribed in the UK are available in Montenegro. You should make sure you have sufficient medical supplies (including prescription medicines) for the duration of your stay and any unforeseen delays. Ordering medicines from abroad and importing them by post to Montenegro is neither legal nor possible.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
There is a reciprocal healthcare agreement for British nationals visiting Montenegro, which entitles you to free treatment for genuine emergencies. In order to exercise this right, you should present a British passport and some evidence of being insured in the UK to the office of the Health Fund of Montenegro and obtain a certificate. More detailed information can be found on our living in Montenegro page. The reciprocal agreement does not cover repatriation to the UK or any additional costs, so we highly recommend taking out adequate travel health insurance to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 124 to contact the ambulance service directly. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
Coronavirus
There is an ongoing global outbreak of coronavirus (COVID-19) and cases have been confirmed in Montenegro. The Montenegrin authorities have put in place a series of stringent measures in response to coronavirus. You should comply with any additional screening and other measures put in place by the authorities to monitor and limit the spread of the virus. Violation of these measures is a criminal offence. Additional measures may be introduced at short notice.
Following measures taken by Montenegro and neighbouring countries, there are currently no commercial means of leaving Montenegro to return to the UK. British nationals should contact the Embassy if they need assistance.
The Montenegrin Government has introduced severe restrictions on international travel. Entry is forbidden to all foreign nationals except for those with permanent or temporary residence permits in Montenegro, and those driving freight vehicles. All international passenger air, rail and bus traffic, as well as local rail, bus and taxi services have been suspended. No more than two adults are allowed in a vehicle.
All those entering Montenegro from abroad should expect to be subject to a compulsory 14 day quarantine period. Individuals who have had contact with someone diagnosed with coronavirus, or suspected to be infected with coronavirus will be subject to quarantine. Those over 65 years old are recommended to self-isolate.
Other measures include closure of all retail, leisure and religious premises, except food shops, pharmacies, hygiene, construction and fuel suppliers. There are limits on the number of people allowed in shops. Hotels are not allowed to accept new guests and may only provide services to guests who have already checked in.
A ban is in force on all cruise ships and yachts entering Montenegro, and all mass gatherings. All schools will be closed until 31 March.
If you develop any symptoms or are concerned about your health do not go to a hospital or a doctor. You should stay in your home or accommodation and call the designated Institute of Public Health hotline 1616, or ask a Montenegrin-speaker to call on your behalf.
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
You can find more information about the cases in Montenegro on the TravelHealthPro country page.
