No current departure options
There are currently no commercial options available to return to the UK from Montenegro, due to measures taken by the government and neighbouring countries. Non-commercial air transport (general aviation) is exempt from this ban.
We know this is concerning for British people trying to leave Montenegro. The UK government is working closely with airlines, the Montenegrin authorities and other governments to make sure options are available for you to return to the UK as soon as possible.
If you cannot leave Montenegro at this time, see advice on staying in Montenegro during coronavirus
Future travel options
This travel advice will be updated when departure options become available. Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British Embassy on Twitter and Facebook.
You should contact your airline for the latest information on flight status and availability over the coming months, however please bear in mind that flights could be cancelled at short notice. Dubrovnik and Belgrade airports are open to commercial flights, from where it is possible to take connecting flights in order to return to the UK. Transit time must be less than 24 hours.
If you are a British national who wishes to leave Montenegro by car, please contact the British Embassy in Podgorica, for help with obtaining the necessary country exit permit from the Montenegrin authorities.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK.
For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Your journey home: re-entering the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK. You:
need to provide your journey and contact details up to 48 hours before you’re due to arrive in the UK
are not allowed to leave the place you’re staying for the first 14 days you’re in the UK except in very limited situations (known as ‘self-isolating’)
See also the list of people who are exempt from the border rules.
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) also provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British Embassy on +382 20 420 100.
If you cannot leave Montenegro
If you cannot leave Montenegro at this time, see advice on staying in Montenegro during coronavirus.
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
