

Terrorism 
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.     
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Montenegro
Terrorist attacks in Montenegro cannot be ruled out.
Attacks could be indiscriminate, including in places visited by foreign nationals. Terrorists may target religious sites, including churches. Stay aware of your surroundings, keep up to date with local media reports and follow the advice of local authorities.  
Political demonstrations
Protests and demonstrations sometimes take place in Montenegro, often in front of government or religious buildings. They are mostly peaceful but can lead to traffic disruption, clashes with police and the potential for violent incidents.
Crime
Protecting yourself and your belongings    
Take sensible precautions to protect yourself and your belongings from street crime. Do not leave bags unattended and be wary of pickpockets in tourist hot spots, beaches, airports and on public transport. 
Use a hotel safe for your valuables and money if possible. Do not leave your luggage in a parked vehicle.
You can reduce the risk of bag-snatching and mugging by:
avoiding isolated areas at night, especially if walking alone
using licensed taxis ordered in advance or using a taxi app
Violent crime
Incidents of violent crime between organised criminal groups can affect others close by. Be cautious, remain vigilant and aware of your surroundings. In the event of any incidents, follow all advice given by the local authorities.
Bank card fraud 
Fraudsters can steal your card details without you noticing. Use ATMs inside banks if possible, and check ATMs on the street for signs of tampering. Keep cards in sight when paying in shops and restaurants. Read more about how to avoid bank card fraud. 
Laws and cultural differences
Personal ID
You must always carry a form of ID such as a photocard driving licence or passport. If you do not have it with you, the police can give you a fine. Keep a copy of your passport’s photo page in a safe place.
Illegal drugs and prison sentences
Drugs laws are similar to the UK. There are strict penalties and lengthy prison sentences for possession or trafficking of drugs.
Using cameras in secure areas
Taking photographs of police or military installations, personnel or vehicles is illegal and could lead to arrest and prosecution by the authorities.
LGBT+ travellers
While there is a general tolerance of same-sex couples in Montenegro, LGBT+ travellers should be aware that showing affection in public could receive negative attention. Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Outdoor activities and adventure tourism     
Swimming safety
Take note of warning signs on beaches, follow instructions from lifeguards and observe the flag indicators. Take local advice if jellyfish or sea urchins are present.
See water safety on holiday from the Royal Life Saving Society.
Paragliding, jet-skis and quad bikes
For all extreme sports and water sports, take precautions to prevent injuries and use protective equipment.
Before signing up with paragliding instructors, ask to see their training licence for tandem flights.
When renting a jet-ski, you should always get a safety briefing and clear instructions about where you can and cannot ride. See watersports safety abroad from the Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents.
Make sure you have the appropriate licence and insurance when renting outdoor activity vehicles, such as jet-skis and quad bikes. Take precautions to prevent injuries and use protective equipment. Insurance should cover your itinerary, planned activities and expenses in an emergency.
Hiking and mountaineering
If you’re hiking in the mountains:
get expert advice from local guides
do not underestimate the hike, or factors like weather, landscape, distance and elevation
take a fully charged mobile phone and enough supplies
Hikers have got lost in the mountains when they have left marked paths. If you get into trouble, call the emergency number 112.
Transport risks
Road travel
If you are planning to drive in Montenegro, see information on driving abroad and check the rules of the road in the RAC’s Montenegro guide. The guide lists driving regulations and other legal requirements you need to be aware of.
Check if you need a UK sticker to drive your car outside the UK.
Road conditions
The standard of roads is fair to poor. Conditions are worse in rural areas, especially in the winter and after bad weather. The 2-lane Moraca Canyon can be dangerous when conditions are poor and there is congestion.
Roads leading to Montenegro’s coastal areas are in better condition, but high traffic volumes can lead to delays during the summer season.
Contact the Auto-Moto Association of Montenegro for roadside assistance and information about road closures. Assistance is available in English.
Telephone: +38219807
Traffic penalties
If you break the speed limit by 10kph, police can fine you. Excessive speeding and overtaking under dangerous conditions are both punishable by automatic confiscation of your driving licence.
The drink-driving limit is less than half the limit in England and Wales.
Penalties for traffic offences range from fines of 20 to 6,000 euros to prison sentences.
If you get a fine, you may have to pay at a bank or post office within 8 days or before leaving the country. Unpaid fines for foreign nationals are recorded.
If you are involved in a small traffic accident, you can request a police investigation at a cost of 50 euros. If the other driver is found guilty, they must reimburse you. If you want to appeal the penalty, you have the right to appear in court.
If the drivers agree, they can both complete a European accident report and submit it to their insurance companies without a police investigation.
Sea travel
If you’re sailing and want to enter Montenegro, see Entry requirements.
If you have had an accident at sea, call 129, the emergency number of the rescue unit within the Maritime Safety Department (in Montenegrin).
Extreme weather and natural disasters
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards.
Wildfires
Wildfires are common in Montenegro from April to October due to the dry and hot weather. Wildfires are highly dangerous and unpredictable. You should:
take care when visiting or driving through woodland areas
make sure cigarette ends are properly extinguished
not light fires or barbecues
not leave any rubbish
If you see a wildfire, call the emergency services on 112. Follow any advice from the police or local authorities.
Flooding
Flooding can be a problem when there is heavy rain and snow melts, causing rivers to flood in winter and spring.
Monitor media reports and follow the advice of the local authorities if flooding occurs in your area.
Earthquakes
Montenegro lies in a seismically active zone and small tremors are recorded throughout the year. Serious earthquakes are less frequent but do happen. The last serious earthquake was in 1979. The US Federal Emergency Management Agency’s website tells you about what to do before, during and after an earthquake.
