This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Montenegro as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Montenegro to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Montenegro
For information on entering Montenegro, see Entry Requirements
Those in country can be subject to a mandatory 28 day self-isolation period at the direction of sanitary inspectors, for example if you have symptoms of coronavirus or if you have been in contact, or are suspected to have been in contact, with someone known to have coronavirus
All private and public gatherings are banned, including congregating in other people’s homes. Any groups, i.e. more than one person, in a public space are prohibited, with limited exceptions such as certain work related reasons, looking after a child under the age of 12, or a child with a disability, in which case one parent, or other immediate family member, fosterer or caregiver should be present.
minors must be accompanied by a parent, foster-carer or legal guardian when in a public open space
weddings are banned and funerals can only be attended by immediate family
visits to hospitals, prisons, social care and child protective care institutions are banned
pharmacies, supermarkets and certain categories of shops are open from 7am to 10pm, subject to controls on the number of people allowed inside at any given time
all child day care services, elementary and secondary schools and universities are closed
hotels are not allowed to accept new guests and may only provide services to guests who have already checked in
a facemask or covering must be worn in all enclosed public spaces (including shops, banks, and post offices)
Phased relaxation of coronavirus measures from 15 May
Previous temporary movement bans overnight have been lifted.
Catering facilities and shopping malls are allowed to reopen, but cinemas in shopping malls remain closed. These establishments will be subject to the following conditions:
a maximum of 4 guests per table, unless guests are members of the same family household
a distance of at least 2 metres between the tables in bars, cafés and restaurants
employees are required to wear facemasks or coverings
hand sanitizers must be available to customers at the entrance/exit
self-service and ‘at the bar’ service are not permitted
Access to private and public beaches is allowed. A distance of at least 2 metres between sunbeds / other beach occupants is required at all times, unless visitors are members of the same family household.
Only one customer is permitted for every 10m2 squared of shop floor space. A distance of 2 metres between other customers is required, both in the shop and while queuing to enter. Shops and customers are required to obey a one-way system where applicable, with a separate entrance and exit.
Indoor and outdoor group sport activities are allowed to resume, with a requirement to split sport teams into smaller groups wherever possible. Sport competitions will resume on 30 May, but without supporters in attendance.
Driving
Facemasks or coverings are required when people travel, with the exception of family members occupying the same vehicle. Bus and rail services will resume on 18 May.
Locally issued, but expired driving licences will remain valid, as long as the driving licence holder has a valid insurance policy and a technical car check certificate.
Social measures
Social distancing of two metres is highly recommended.
The Government of Montenegro has introduced a set of measures in response to the coronavirus. Full list in English is available on the Montenegrin government website
Visas
Expired permanent and temporary residence permits and temporary work permits will remain valid for foreigners where necessary.
Health
If you develop any symptoms or are concerned about your health do not go to a hospital or a doctor. You should stay in your home or accommodation and call the designated Institute of Public Health hotline 1616 from 8am to 11pm, or ask a Montenegrin-speaker to call on your behalf. Call handlers will be able to assess the risks you have been exposed to and provide further recommendations and instructions for you to take.
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Montenegro.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
