The Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) advises against all but essential travel to:
The whole of Montenegro based on the current assessment of COVID-19 risks.
Travel to Montenegro is subject to entry restrictions
Visitors travelling from all countries except those bordering Montenegro require a negative PCR test taken within 72 hours of travel, or a positive serology test on IgG antibodies. Montenegrin citizens and holders of Montenegrin residence permits can enter Montenegro without such a test but will be required to self-isolate or quarantine for 14 days.
If you notice symptoms of a respiratory infection you must follow the guidelines of the Institute of Public Health, which include contacting a local epidemiological service. The guidance and contact details of epidemiological services are available in English from the Institute of Public Health.
See Entry requirements for more information before you plan to travel.
Preparing for your return journey to the UK
If you’re returning to the UK from overseas, you will need to:
provide your journey and contact details before you travel
check if you need to self-isolate on your return
If your return journey to the UK transits another country, you should check whether it is subject to a travel ban or any other additional requirements. If so, contact your travel provider.
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
If you’re planning travel to Montenegro, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCDO guidance on foreign travel insurance.
For information about COVID-19 vaccines, see the Coronavirus page.
There is a general threat from terrorism. There may be increased security in place over the festive period. You should remain vigilant and follow the advice of the local authorities.
The British Embassy is closed to visitors but can be contacted by telephone, email or social media.
Most visits to Montenegro are trouble-free.
In 2020 and 2021 a series of protests have caused occasional disruption and road closures. Restrictions on gatherings remain due to coronavirus. See Political situation
Terrorist attacks in Montenegro can’t be ruled out. See Terrorism
You must register with local police within 24 hours of your arrival in Montenegro. See Registration
Under Montenegrin law you must carry a valid form of ID with you at all times, for example a driving licence, passport or equivalent, otherwise you may be fined. See Local laws and customs
If you are abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.
