Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for CAR on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
International and UN missions flights are operating from Bangui M’Poko international airport.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in CAR.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Accommodation
There are limited options for accommodation in Bangui.
Public places and services
A national curfew is in place in response to outbreaks of violence, following presidential and legislative elections. This curfew comes into effect at 8pm and ends at 5am. You should follow the government’s instructions and avoid travel around Bangui during these hours.
The following measures remain in place:
it is compulsory to wear face masks in public places;
no handshakes or kissing, instead use non-contact greetings for social interactions;
public spaces must have hand-washing stations;
places of worship and restaurants remain open;
staying in your house or accommodation is encouraged
Healthcare in CAR
The government of CAR has established a coronavirus hotline (French and Sango) – call 1212 if you have questions or to report possible exposure.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in CAR.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in CAR
As information is available about the national vaccination programme, this page will be updated.
The Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) is the UK authority responsible for assessing the safety, quality and efficacy of vaccines. It has authorised the Pfizer/BioNTech, Oxford/AstraZeneca and Moderna vaccines for temporary supply and use in the UK. Find out more about MHRA approval for these vaccines.
British nationals living overseas should seek medical advice from their local healthcare provider in the country where they reside. Information about vaccines used in other national programmes, including regulatory status, should be available from the local authorities. This list of Stringent Regulatory Authorities recognised by the World Health Organisation may also be a useful source of additional information. Find out more information about the COVID-19 vaccines on the World Health Organization COVID-19 vaccines page.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact the British Embassy in Kinshasa via email: Kinshasa.Consular@fco.gov.uk
Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British Embassy Kinshasa on Twitter and Facebook.
