This page has information on travelling to Central African Republic.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in the Central African Republic set and enforce entry rules. If you’re unsure how Central African Republic’s entry requirements apply to you, contact its UK embassy, high commission or consulate.
All travellers
You will need a valid yellow fever vaccination certificate to enter or travel through the Central African Republic as a visitor.
When you arrive in Central African Republic, you will need to present a negative PCR test taken no more than 72 hours before arrival. You will then be required to undergo a 14 day period of self-isolation, unless you are eligible for an exemption (see below).
If you’re fully vaccinated
Entry requirements for Central African Republic are the same for all travellers, regardless of vaccination status.
Proof of vaccination status
You don’t need to provide proof of vaccination to get into Central African Republic.
If you’re not fully vaccinated
Entry requirements for Central African Republic are the same for all travellers, regardless of vaccination status.
If you’ve had COVID-19 in the past year
Entry requirements for Central African Republic are the same for all travellers, regardless of whether you have tested positive for COVID-19 in the past year.
Children and young people
Children and young people must follow the same guidance set out for adults.
If you’re transiting through the Central African Republic
All travellers transiting through the Central African Republic should ensure that they present a PCR test taken no more than 72 hours before arrival and isolate for the duration of their transit period.
Exemptions
Exemptions are possible for members of international organisations or humanitarian NGOs arriving in Bangui who may be released from quarantine on receipt of a negative PCR test at the Pasteur Institute.
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
Regular entry requirements
Passport validity
If you are visiting Central African Republic, your passport should be valid for 6 months from the date you arrive.
Check with your travel provider to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Visas
British nationals need a visa to visit CAR. To apply for a visa and for further information on entry requirements, contact the Embassy of CAR in Paris at 30 rue des Perchamps, 75116 Paris.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
A UK emergency travel document with 6 months validity will be accepted on entry to and departure from CAR.
