!
Warning
FCDO advises against all travel to parts of Central African Republic.

The Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) cannot provide tailored advice for individual trips. Read this travel advice and carry out your own research before deciding whether to travel.
Emergency services in the Central African Republic
Telephone: 117 (ambulance, fire, police)
or
Ambulance: 610600           
Fire: 118
Military police (‘gendarmerie’): 2161 2200
Emergency numbers are unreliable in the Central African Republic. The emergency services are unlikely to respond outside Bangui.
Contact your travel provider and insurer
Contact your travel provider and your insurer if you are involved in a serious incident or emergency abroad. They will tell you if they can help and what you need to do.
Refunds and changes to travel
For refunds or changes to travel, contact your travel provider. You may also be able to make a claim through insurance. However, insurers usually require you to talk to your travel provider first.
Find out more about changing or cancelling travel plans, including:
where to get advice if you are in a dispute with a provider
how to access previous versions of travel advice to support a claim
Support from FCDO
FCDO has guidance on staying safe and what to do if you need help or support abroad, including:
finding English-speaking lawyers and translators and interpreters in the Central African Republic
dealing with a death in the Central African Republic
Being arrested or imprisoned in the Central African Republic
getting help if you’re a victim of crime
what to do if you’re in hospital
if you’re affected by a crisis, such as a terrorist attack
Contacting FCDO
Follow and contact FCDO travel on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram. You can also sign up to get email notifications when this travel advice is updated.
You can also contact FCDO online.
Help abroad in an emergency
If you are in the Central African Republic and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the British Embassy in Kinshasa, Democratic Republic of Congo, who provide consular assistance for the Central African Republic.
The French Embassy in Bangui may also be able to offer some consular assistance (telephone: +236 613 000 or +236 610 584) to those who need urgent help.
FCDO in London
You can call FCDO in London if you need urgent help because something has happened to a friend or relative abroad.
Telephone: 020 7008 5000 (24 hours)
Find out about call charges
