At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Medical facilities are extremely limited and strikes by government workers have affected medical services and hospitals. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation, including medical evacuation by air ambulance.
UK health authorities have classified the Central African Republic as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For information and advice about the risks associated with Zika virus, visit the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
Cholera is known to occur in the Central African Republic.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 610600 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
Coronavirus
A case of coronavirus (COVID-19) has been confirmed in the Central African Republic (CAR). The CAR authorities have introduced a number of measures in response to the coronavirus pandemic. You should be prepared for additional screening measures or travel restrictions to be put into effect with little or no advance notice.
The CAR authorities have announced the following measures to reduce the spread of coronavirus. These include:
A mandatory 14-day self-quarantine for any person entering CAR coming from a location with local transmission of coronavirus;
Central Africans outside of CAR are recommended to postpone travel to CAR;
No handshakes or kissing, instead use non-contact greetings for social interactions;
No large gatherings;
Public spaces must have hand-washing stations;
Members of the government of CAR are banned from travelling to countries with local transmission;
Diplomatic missions, international organisations, and non-governmental organisations must comply with these measures. Airline companies must also cooperate with the government of CAR concerning quarantine and other measures necessary to manage the spread of coronavirus. The government of CAR has established a coronavirus hotline (French and Sango) – call 1212 if you have questions or to report possible exposure.
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
You can find more information about cases in CAR on the TravelHealthPro country page.
