!
Warning
FCDO advises against all travel to Central African Republic.

Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in the Central African Republic  
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in the Central African Republic, attacks cannot be ruled out.    
Attacks could be indiscriminate including in places visited by foreigners. Stay aware of your surroundings, keep up to date with local media reports and follow the advice of local authorities. 
Political situation
Current President Faustin-Archange Touadéra came to power through an election in 2015 and was re-elected in 2020. In August 2023, a constitutional referendum was passed, which included the removal of presidential term limits. Presidential elections are due in 2025.
Protests, marches and demonstrations can happen with little notice and have encountered a strong police and security force presence. Protests have previously resulted in deaths and injuries. If you are near any protests, marches or demonstrations, you should leave the area immediately. Stay alert and follow the local news, as the atmosphere can change quickly and without warning. Stay away from any blockades set up by the police and security forces.  
Security situation
Tensions remain high following decades of violence between the Central African Republic government and rebel groups. The security situation could worsen without notice.
There are frequent incidents of homicide, looting, criminal kidnapping, house burglary, arbitrary detention, gunfire and carjacking, including in Bangui. Attacks are unpredictable and have taken place against UN peacekeepers, humanitarian workers and foreign mining companies.
Outside of Bangui, security conditions are extremely unstable. While Central African Republic government forces have made progress in retaking territory, armed groups continue to occupy areas in the north and east of the country. Government services are largely absent across the country outside of Bangui. There are ongoing incidents of armed conflict, banditry and hostage-taking. There are unidentified improvised explosive devices in the west of the country.
If you decide to remain in the Central African Republic against FCDO advice, you should have confidence in your security arrangements and maintain a high level of vigilance, especially outside of Bangui.       
Armed patrols and roadblocks
Government security forces, UN peacekeepers, rebel groups and militias conduct armed patrols across the Central African Republic, including in Bangui. Armed personnel control roadblocks (both official and illegal) where you may be asked for a bribe. Take particular care when approaching these. Travel in groups if possible and avoid travelling at night.
It is common for the police and armed groups to arbitrarily search and detain people, mainly Central African nationals but also foreign nationals.
Crime  
Theft and robbery are common, and armed gangs operate in the outlying areas of Bangui. Bandits often target foreign nationals, including humanitarian workers.
Be alert to the risk of street crime, armed robbery and bribery at all times. Take precautions such as:   
taking professional security advice
travelling in pre-arranged transport with trusted operators
avoiding taking valuables or wearing jewellery in public
not walking alone at any time, especially at night
using a hotel safe if possible and keeping copies of documents, including your passport
avoiding isolated areas
Violent attacks in remote areas  
Armed groups and bandits have used illegal roadblocks and have indiscriminately attacked travellers in remote areas. The attackers have burnt or stolen vehicles, and injured, kidnapped or killed passengers.
Always keep vehicle and personal identification documents with you while travelling by road. Lock vehicle doors, keep windows closed and avoid driving off main routes. Medical help in the event of an accident is likely to be limited.
Laws and cultural differences
Personal ID
You must always carry ID by law, such as a certified copy of your passport or a residence permit. The police can detain you if you do not have ID with you.
Buying diamonds
It is only legal to buy diamonds or precious stones through government-authorised agents.
Illegal drugs penalties
There are severe penalties for drug use and possession. If convicted, you can expect heavy fines and a long jail sentence.
Using cameras
You often need permission to take photos in public places. You may be detained, fined and have your camera confiscated for photographing government property, uniformed law enforcement officers or military installations and personnel.
It is not permitted to take photographs the authorities think damage the country’s image (for example, street children and people with disabilities).
You can get a permit for more serious photography from the Ministry of Tourism.  
LGBT+ travellers
While homosexuality is not illegal, same-sex relationships are not widely accepted in Central African society. LGBT+ travellers may face arrest for “public expressions of love”.
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Money
It is easier to exchange euros for Central African francs rather than US dollars. You can exchange traveller’s cheques at banks.
There are very few ATMs. Most places, including hotels, do not accept international credit or debit cards. 
Transport risks
Road travel
If you are planning to drive in the Central African Republic, see information on driving abroad.
Roads are in extremely poor condition, especially in the rainy season from May to November. Most roads are unpaved, may close at short notice and require a 4-wheel-drive vehicle. Outside of Bangui, there are very few roads.
You’ll need to have both the 1968 version of the international driving permit (IDP) and your UK driving licence with you in the car.
Hire car companies often have stricter requirements for their customers, such as a year of driving experience or a higher minimum age.      
Keep a private supply of fuel, food and drink if possible, especially if you are travelling any distance outside of Bangui.  
Extreme weather and natural disasters  
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards.
Flooding
During the rainy season from May to November, roads outside of Bangui can become impassable. Flooding in Bangui is common and has killed people and destroyed homes. There is a risk of being cut off by floods in areas outside the capital, particularly in northern regions. There is also a risk of flash flooding.
Earthquakes
Earthquakes are a risk in the Central African Republic. The US Federal Emergency Management Agency website has advice about what to do before, during and after an earthquake.
