This page gives you guidance on how to stay as safely as possible in Central African Republic if you are a visitor and have been unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Central African Republic to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in CAR
For information on entering CAR, see Entry requirements
Local measures
A mandatory 21 day self-quarantine for any person entering CAR coming from a location with local transmission of coronavirus.
Staying in your home or accommodation is encouraged
It is obligatory to wear face masks in public places; No handshakes or kissing, instead use non-contact greetings for social interactions;
No large gatherings;
Public spaces must have hand-washing stations;On 12 June, the CAR government announced the entry into “phase two” of the COVID-19 response, which includes the reopening of places of worship and restaurants.
Diplomatic missions, international organisations, and non-governmental organisations should comply with these measures. Airline companies must also cooperate with the government of CAR concerning quarantine and other measures necessary to manage the spread of coronavirus.
Health
The government of CAR has established a coronavirus hotline (French and Sango) – call 1212 if you have questions or to report possible exposure.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in CAR.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
