The Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) advises against all but essential travel to:
the whole of Central Africa Republic based on the current assessment of COVID-19 risks
In addition and for security reasons the FCDO advises against all but essential travel to:
central Bangui between the Airport and the Oubangui river, as shown on the map
this area is bordered to the north by Avenue des Martyrs and Avenue de l’Indépendance linked by Avenue Koudoukou and bordered to the south by Avenue de France and Avenue Barthélemy Boganda linked by Avenue Ruth Roland. It includes the riverside area of the city centre (around Boulevard du Géneral de Gaulle) including the UNESCO building, the French Embassy and the Hotel Oubangi
The FCDO advises against all travel to:
the rest of Bangui and the Central African Republic (CAR)
Travel to CAR is subject to entry restrictions
some incoming passengers have been asked to undertake a Coronavirus (COVID-19) test on arrival. If needed, you should arrange to take a private COVID-19 test.
some air companies and airports also require a negative COVID-19 test prior to boarding to CAR. You should check with your travel provider.
you will need to self-isolate for 14 days after arrival.
See Entry requirements for more information before you plan to travel.
Return travel to the UK is subject to self-isolation requirements
If you’re returning to the UK, you will need to:
provide your journey and contact details
self-isolate for 10 days
Check the guidance on entering or returning to the UK.
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
If you’re planning travel to CAR, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCDO’s guidance on foreign travel insurance.
Consular support is severely limited in CAR as there is no British Embassy. However, the British Embassy Kinshasa, in the Democratic Republic of Congo can provide limited remote consular support to British nationals.
On 7 January 2021, the President introduced a national curfew in response to outbreaks of violence, following presidential and legislative elections. This curfew comes into effect at 8pm and ends at 5am. You should follow the government’s instructions and avoid travel around Bangui during these hours.
Tensions are high in Bangui and across the country following presidential and legislative elections on 27 December. There have been recent outbreaks of violence across the country, concentrated in towns and cities, linked to elections. Attacks on individuals and groups, including car-jackings, are likely and unpredictable. You should take extreme care, and take personal security precautions, if possible. There are armed patrols that have set up several roadblocks across the country. Detention by police forces and armed groups is a common occurrence, primarily for CAR nationals, but also for expatriates.
Terrorist attacks in the CAR cannot be ruled out. See Terrorism
UK health authorities have classified CAR as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For information and advice about the risks associated with Zika virus, visit the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
