Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Mauritania on the TravelHealthPro website.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
As of 10 September 2020, some international flights to and from Mauritania have resumed, though may be subject to delays or cancellations. Please check with your travel provider. Land border crossings to Morocco remain closed to non-commercial traffic. Land borders with Senegal and Mali have reopened.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Mauritania.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements. You should contact local authorities for information on testing facilities. See information above in Getting a test in Mauritania.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Getting a COVID-19 test in Mauritania
A negative COVID-19 PCR test is required before arrival in Mauritania (see Entry requirements). Should you need to take another test while in Mauritania, for example for onward travel, the Mauritanian Ministry of Health has approved the following institutions to carry out COVID-19 testing within Mauritania:
Institut National de Recherche en Santé Publique (INRSP)
Institut National d’hépato-Virologie (INHV)
Travel in Mauritania
The Government of Mauritania announced the lifting of restrictions on internal travel on 10 July 2020. Land border crossings to Morocco remain closed to non-commercial traffic. Land borders with Senegal and Mali have reopened.
The Mauritanian authorities have implemented the following measures in response to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic:
You must wear a face covering on public transport and in shops.
Social distancing of at least 1.5 metres in public.
Nationwide curfew across the country from 2am to 6am.
Accommodation
Hotels have reopened. You should adhere to any preventative measures put in place by hotels to limit the spread of the virus.
Public places and services
Restaurants and public spaces have reopened. You should adhere to any preventative measures in place in these locations.
Healthcare in Mauritania
Medical facilities are extremely limited, particularly outside Nouakchott and Nouadhibou. Clinics in Nouakchott and Nouadhibou charge for medical care (sometimes in euros or US dollars), and may not accept foreign insurance cards. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Mauritania.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Mauritania
We will update this page when the Government of Mauritania announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Mauritanian national vaccination programme started in April 2021 and is using the AstraZeneca and Sinopharm vaccines. The Government of Mauritania has stated that British nationals who hold a valid residence permit for Mauritania are eligible for vaccination if they choose to join the programme. You should contact your local healthcare provider for more information.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in Mauritania, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
If you need urgent consular assistance, you should contact your local British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephones numbers are available 24/7.
