This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Mauritania set and enforce entry rules. For further information contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to. You should also consider checking with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Entry rules in response to coronavirus (COVID-19)
Entry to Mauritania
International flights to and from Mauritania are operating.
The Mauritanian authorities have introduced a number of measures to limit the risk of travellers spreading COVID-19 on arrival in Mauritania.
You must wear a face-mask on arrival
You must complete an individual health declaration on arrival
You will undergo a contactless temperature check on arrival. If you have a temperature upon arrival, you must agree to a PCR or rapid antigen test. While waiting for the test result you must self-isolate at your own expense in a hotel or your place of residence for 10 days. If the test is negative, you can leave self-isolation before the end of the 10-day period
You must provide proof that you have been fully vaccinated with a vaccine recognised by the World Health Organisation (WHO).. Vaccines recognised by the WHO are: AstraZeneca, Sinopharm, Pfizer/BioNTech, Janssen (Johnson & Johnson), Moderna, Sinovac, and Covishield. Please note that for vaccines requiring two doses, your vaccination status will be considered complete two weeks after the administration of the second dose. (See ‘Demonstrating your COVID-19 status’)
In addition to providing proof of vaccination, you must take a PCR test dated within 72 hours before arrival and show evidence of the negative test result, with the date of the test clearly labelled. You should not use the NHS testing service to facilitate your travel to another country. You should take a private test
Non-Mauritanian nationals that arrive without proof of vaccination and a negative PCR test will not be allowed to enter the country and will be obliged to immediately return to their country of origin
Demonstrating your COVID-19 status
Mauritania will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 vaccination record and proof of COVID-19 vaccination issued in the Crown Dependencies. Your final vaccine dose must have been administered at least 14 days prior to travel. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
Screening on arrival
You must present evidence of vaccination against COVID-19 (as detailed above) and a negative COVID-19 PCR test, which must be taken within 72 hours before your arrival. You should not use the NHS testing service to get a test in order to facilitate your travel to another country. You should arrange to take a private test.
You will undergo a contactless temperature check on arrival. If you have a temperature upon arrival, you must agree to a PCR or rapid antigen test. While waiting for the test result you must self-isolate at your own expense in a hotel or your place of residence for 10 days. If the test is negative, you can leave self-isolation before the end of the 10-day period.
Regular entry requirements
Visas
You need a visa to enter Mauritania. Visas are issued on arrival. The current cost is €55 (euros) or $60 (US dollars) in cash only. The visa issuing process at the border can take several hours. The Mauritanian Embassy in London does not issue visas.
Passport validity
Your passport should be valid for a minimum period of 6 months from the date of entry into Mauritania.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK ETDs are accepted for entry, airside transit and exit from Mauritania. A valid entry visa would still be required for entry to Mauritania using an ETD.
