!
Warning
FCDO advises against all travel to parts of Mauritania.

This section has safety advice for regions of Mauritania. It only covers regions where FCDO has specific advice.
You should also read FCDO’s overall travel advice and safety and security advice.
Eastern Mauritania
FCDO advises against all travel to areas east of a line drawn between but excluding the towns of Kankossa, Akhreijit, Ghallaouia, Zouerat, Fderîck and onwards west to the border with Western Sahara.
FCDO advises against all travel because of designated “military zones” by the Mauritanian military. These areas are off-limits to foreign nationals and most civilians. The Mauritanian Ministry of Defence warned that individuals entering these areas would be treated as a military target. The boundaries of such zones frequently change and authorisation from authorities is needed for access.
These zones are due to the deterioration of the security situation in Mali leading to increased risks of incursions by terrorist groups based in Mali into Mauritanian territory, including Jama’a Nusrat ul-Islam wa al-Muslimin (JNIM). Serious organised crime groups operate in eastern Mauritania.
Mauritania-Mali border
FCDO advises against all travel to areas within 25km of the Malian border in the south of Mauritania, including Khabou. There is increased terrorist and serious organised crime activity across the border in Kayes Region in Mali.
Mauritania-Western Sahara border
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to areas within 25km of the Western Sahara border, excluding the section of the Nouakchott-Nouadhibou road and the city of Nouadhibou.
Unexploded landmines remain on the border with Western Sahara. Landmines can shift location due to weather conditions. You should check local advice before travelling.
Tiris Zemmour, Adrar, Tagant, Hodh el Gharbi, Assaba and Guidimaka provinces
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to the rest of the province of Tiris Zemmour, Assaba, Hodh el Gharbi, Gorgol and Guidimaka, and areas of Adrar and Tagant provinces, west of a line drawn between the towns of Ghallaouia, Akhreijit and Kankossa. This excludes:
the areas west of a line running between Choum, Ouadane and where the 10th Meridian West meets latitude 18° 40°
the town of Ouadane
the Tidjikja-Tichit road
the Aleg to Tidjikja road via Moudjeria and all areas of Tagant west of that road
the Bogue to Kaedi road via Bababe
This is due to risks of instability extending from eastern Mauritania as a result of the conflict in Mali, including from organised crime.
