!
Warning
FCDO advises against all travel to parts of Mauritania.

Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.    
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Mauritania
Terrorist attacks in Mauritania cannot be ruled out.
Terrorist attacks could be indiscriminate, including in places visited by foreign nationals. Stay aware of your surroundings, keep up to date with local media reports and follow the advice of local authorities.
Political situation
Demonstrations can happen at any time in Nouakchott. You should avoid political gatherings and demonstrations and follow the advice of local authorities and security forces. Maintain adequate stocks of non-perishable food and water.
Crime
Crime levels are moderate but steadily increasing.
There have been burglaries in areas where foreign nationals live.
There have been thefts and robberies at knifepoint after dark on the unlit and isolated beaches at Nouakchott and in the ‘Le Cinquième’ district. Be particularly careful in these places.
Report crime to the police by dialling 117 or visiting a police station.
Laws and cultural differences
Personal ID
You should always carry copies of your photo ID, especially outside Nouakchott where there are police checkpoints. Follow any directions from the police or other Mauritanian security forces.
Religion
Mauritania recognises Islam as the only religion of its citizens and the state. It is illegal to participate in non-Islamic gatherings and activities that have not been authorised by the Mauritanian authorities. Attempting to convert people to other religions is illegal – those caught doing this can be arrested or deported.
Ramadan    
Ramadan is a holy month for Muslims. The dates vary by year and country. During this time, do not eat, drink, smoke or chew gum in public in the daytime, including in your car.
Get more advice when you arrive from your tour guide, hotel or business contacts.
You should also:
check opening hours of shops and restaurants
follow local dress codes – clothing that does not meet local dress codes may cause more offence at this time
be aware that driving may be more erratic, particularly when people are trying to get home at dusk
Alcohol and pork products ban
It is illegal for Muslims and non-Muslims to import or consume alcohol and pork products in Mauritania. The Mauritanian authorities scan all baggage on arrival at Nouakchott International Airport and may search vehicles at land borders. They will confiscate alcohol or pork products and arrest or fine people found carrying them.
Illegal drugs and prison sentences
Drug laws in Mauritania are severe. The penalties for possessing illegal drugs include imprisonment.
Dress code
You should dress modestly when not on the beach. Women should cover their shoulders and not wear short skirts. Men should not wear sleeveless tops or shorts.
Using cameras
Police and members of the public can object to photography or filming if you do not get their permission. Do not photograph or film government and military sites or members of the security forces.  
LGBT+ travellers
There are no laws in Mauritania to protect LGBT+ people from discrimination.
Under Mauritanian law, the maximum penalty for sexual activity between men is death. Penalties for women include a prison sentence ranging from 3 months to 2 years and a fine.
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Accessing money
It is illegal to take Mauritanian currency (ougiyas) out of the country. The Mauritanian authorities may confiscate money from people trying to do so.
You can exchange US dollars and euros for Mauritanian ouguiyas at banks, some hotels and official bureau de change. You can exchange British pounds at some official bureau de change, but the exchange rate is very poor.
Mauritania is mainly a cash-based society. A few hotels in Nouakchott and Nouadhibou accept credit cards – some hotels only accept Visa cards. Some ATMs accept foreign credit or debit cards.
Transport risks
Road travel
If you are planning to drive in Mauritania, see information on driving abroad.
You can use a UK photocard driving licence to drive in Mauritania. If you still have a paper driving licence, you may need to update it to a photocard licence.    
Driving standards
Driving standards can be poor in Mauritania, traffic rules are rarely respected and paved roads are generally in poor condition.
Overland travel is difficult, and you should use a 4-wheel-drive vehicle. Check the tide times on coastal roads and travel in convoy if possible. Carry out a maintenance check before you travel and make sure you have enough water and fuel on long journeys.
Public transport vehicles are poorly maintained, especially in the interior of the country. 
Crossing borders
Crossing the border into Mauritania can be time-consuming, and officials may ask for payments before they allow you to cross. Check local advice before travelling to neighbouring countries in case border crossings are closed or congested.
