The Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) advises against all but essential travel to:
the whole of Mauritania based on the current assessment of COVID-19 risks
In addition and for security reasons the FCDO advises against all travel to:
the province of Tiris Zemmour (except the town of Zouérat)
the province of Adrar (east of Atar)
the provinces of Tagant, Hodh el Chargui, Hodh El Gharbi, Assaba and Guidimaka
within 25km of the Western Sahara border (except the Noukchott - Nouadhibou corridor)
The FCDO advises against all but essential travel to:
the rest of the country, including the Nouakchott - Nouadhibou corridor.
Travel to Mauritania is subject to entry restrictions
You must take a PCR test dated within 3 days before arrival and show evidence of the negative test result, with the date of the test clearly labelled. You should not use the NHS testing service to facilitate your travel to another country. You should take a private test.
Non-Mauritanian nationals that arrive without a PCR test will not be allowed to enter the country and will be obliged to immediately return to their country of origin.
You must wear a face-mask on arrival.
You must complete an individual health declaration on arrival.
You will undergo a contactless temperature check on arrival. If you have a temperature upon arrival, you must agree to a PCR or rapid antigen test. While waiting for the test result you must self-isolate at your place of residence or hotel at your own expense.
If you are arriving from the UK, South Africa, Brazil, India or another country identified as a source of new COVID-19 variants, you must quarantine at your own expense in a hotel or your place of residence for 10 days. You must then take a PCR test in Mauritania, and if this is negative, you can exit quarantine. See Coronavirus for more information.
See Entry requirements for more information before you plan to travel.
Preparing for your return journey to the UK
If you’re returning to the UK from overseas, you will need to:
provide your journey and contact details before you travel
check if you need to self-isolate on your return
If your return journey to the UK transits another country, you should check whether it is subject to a travel ban or any other additional requirements. If so, contact your travel provider.
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
If you’re planning travel to Mauritania, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCDO’s guidance on foreign travel insurance.
For information about COVID-19 vaccines, see the Coronavirus page.
Terrorists are likely to try to carry out attacks in Mauritania, including kidnapping. You should be especially vigilant in public places and monitor local media. Attacks could be indiscriminate, including in places visited by foreigners. See Terrorism
Consular support is not available from the British Embassy in Nouakchott. If you’re in Mauritania and need consular support, you should contact the British Embassy in Rabat, Morocco.
