Terrorist attacks in Mauritania can’t be ruled out.
Attacks could be indiscriminate, including in places visited by foreigners. Crowded areas, government installations, transportation networks, businesses with Western interests, and areas where foreign nationals and tourists are known to gather may be at higher risk of attack. You should remain vigilant at all times and follow any specific advice of the local security authorities.
The porous nature of borders in the Sahel region - of which Mauritania is a part - means terrorist groups are able to operate across borders and carry out attacks anywhere in the region.
As seen in Mali, Cote d’Ivoire and Burkina Faso, terrorist groups continue to mount attacks on beach resorts, hotels, cafes and restaurants visited by foreigners. Be especially vigilant in these locations.
The main threat comes from groups associated with Jamaat Nusrat al-Islam wal Muslimeer (JNIM). JNIM formed in March 2017 following the merger of Al Qaida in the Islamic Maghreb, Ansar-al-Dine and al-Murabitun. These groups remain intent on demonstrating capability and increasing influence across the wider region. Read more about the threat from terrorism in the Sahel region.
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. You should remain vigilant at all times.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Kidnap
There is a threat of kidnapping in Mauritania by AQ-affiliated and other regional Islamist groups originating in the Sahel particularly in areas along the border with Mali. This includes Jamaat Nusrat al-Islam wal Muslimeen (JNIM) and Islamic State Greater Sahara (IS-GS), who may travel across the region’s porous border. The kidnap threat is most significant near the Mali-Mauritania border, compared to the west of Mauritania and the capital Nouakchott where the threat is considerably lower. Terrorist groups have kidnapped foreigners, government officials and civilians in the Sahel region. Further kidnaps are likely.
British nationals are viewed as legitimate targets, including those engaged in tourism, humanitarian aid work, journalism or business sectors. If you’re kidnapped, the reason for your presence is unlikely to serve as a protection or secure your safe release.
The long-standing policy of the British government is not to make substantive concessions to hostage takers. The British government considers that paying ransoms and releasing prisoners builds the capability of terrorist groups and finances their activities. This can, in turn, increase the risk of further hostage-taking. The Terrorism Act (2000) also makes payments to terrorists illegal.
