!
Warning
FCDO advises against all travel to parts of Mauritania.

Your travel insurance could be invalidated if you travel against Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) advice.
Areas where FCDO advises against travel 
Eastern Mauritania 
FCDO advises against all travel to areas east of a line drawn between but excluding the towns of Kankossa, Akhreijit, Ghallaouia, Zouerat, Fderîck and onwards west to the border with Western Sahara. 
Mauritania-Mali border 
FCDO advises against all travel to areas within 25km of the Malian border in the south, including Khabou.
Mauritania-Western Sahara border 
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to areas within 25km of the Western Sahara border, excluding the section of the Nouakchott-Nouadhibou road and the city of Nouadhibou.
Tiris Zemmour, Adrar, Tagant, Hodh el Gharbi, Assaba, Gorgol and Guidimaka provinces 
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to the rest of the province of Tiris Zemmour, Assaba, Hodh el Gharbi, Gorgol and Guidimaka, and areas of Adrar and Tagant provinces, west of a line drawn between the towns of Ghallaouia, Akhreijit and Kankossa. This excludes:  
the areas west of a line running between Choum, Ouadane and where the 10th Meridian West meets latitude 18° 40° 
the town of Ouadane 
the Tidjikja-Tichit road 
the Aleg to Tidjikja road via Moudjeria and all areas of Tagant west of that road 
the Bogue to Kaedi road via Bababe
Find out more about why FCDO advises against travel.
UK government support
The British Embassy in Nouakchott cannot provide consular services in person. British nationals in Mauritania should contact the British Embassy in Dakar, Senegal, for support.
Before you travel
No travel can be guaranteed safe. Read all the advice in this guide. You may also find it helpful to: 
see general advice for women travellers
read our guide on disability and travel abroad
see general advice for LGBT+ travellers
read about safety for solo and independent travel
see advice on volunteering and adventure travel abroad
Travel insurance
If you choose to travel, research your destinations and get appropriate travel insurance. Insurance should cover your itinerary, planned activities and expenses in an emergency.
About FCDO travel advice
FCDO provides advice about risks of travel to help you make informed decisions. Find out more about FCDO travel advice.
Get travel advice updates
Sign up to get email notifications when this travel advice is updated.
Follow and contact FCDO:   
travel advice on X
travel advice on Facebook
Travel Aware on Instagram
