Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Paraguay on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
Commercial flights are now operating to and from Paraguay on a limited number of routes. Check with your travel company for the latest information.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Paraguay.
Travel in Paraguay
In March 2020, Paraguayan authorities declared a nationwide health-related State of Emergency, putting in place restrictions, which were relaxed in phases.
From 27 April to 10 May, local authorities have declared a restriction on free movement from 8pm to 5amin the following cities that are considered “red level” areas: Asunción, Ciudad del Este, Loma Plata, Coronel Oviedo, San José de los Arroyos, Caazapá, Curuguaty, Areguá, Capiatá, Fernando de la Mora, Guarambaré, Itá, Itauguá, J. Augusto Saldívar, Lambaré, Limpio, Luque, Mariano Roque Alonso, Ñemby, San Antonio, San Lorenzo, Villa Elisa, Villeta, Ypacaraí, Ypané, Concepción, San Lázaro, Altos, Atyrá, Caacupé, Emboscada, Eusebio Ayala, Itacurubí de la Cordillera, Piribebuy, San Bernardino, Villarrica, Bella Vista, Cambyretá, Capitán Miranda, Encarnación, Fram, Hohenau, Natalio, Obligado, Yatytay, Ayolas, San Ignacio, San Juan Bautista, Santa Rosa Misiones, Pilar, Carapeguá, Paraguarí, Pirayú, Yaguarón, Ybycuí, Benjamín Aceval and Villa Hayes.
For the rest of the country, the restrictions on free movement are in place between 11:59pm and 5am.
There are exceptions to go to the pharmacy or hospital, and for essential workers. You should, therefore, stay at your accommodation unless necessary to go out. Wearing a facemask is mandatory at all times and observing sanitary measures (washing of hands and observing physical distance).
Accommodation
Some accommodation options are open such as hotels, hostels and private rentals. Check with your accommodation provider what facilities, including restaurants, are available.
Public spaces and services
Commercial activities:
Businesses can operate in well-ventilated environments between the permitted hours, with use of facemasks, work in crews to limit contact and promoting the sale of products on a delivery and pickup basis.
Restaurants can operate promoting delivery and pickup services or on a reservation basis only with up to 4 people per table for red level cities and up to 6 people per table for the rest of the country. Attendees must be seated, use of facemasks is mandatory, and there must not be interaction between tables.
Pharmacies and call centres can operate on a 24 hour basis.
Delivery services can operate from 5am to 10pm
Academic activities:
In-classroom lessons will be virtual or hybrid.
Higher education lessons will continue to be virtual.
Social activities:
Social events in public and private venues are allowed for a maximum duration of 4 hours, with a person responsible for the event, with prior individual registration, mandatory use of facemasks and observing a 2-metre social distancing. No bars or dance floors are allowed.
Red level cities:
Social events can be carried out with up to 25 people in closed spaces with adequate ventilation, and up to 50 people in outdoor spaces. Events in open and closed spaces cannot be combined.
Social events in private homes are not allowed with guests from outside the household.
Rest of the country:
Social events can be carried out with up to 50 people in closed spaces with adequate ventilation, and up to 100 people in outdoor spaces. Events in open and closed space cannot be combined.
Social events in private homes can take place with up to 5 people outside of those who live in the same home and observing sanitary measures.
Children and teenagers are allowed to circulate in the company of an adult family member.
Physical activities:
Red level cities:
Individual physical activities are allowed.
Sports competitions are prohibited.
Rest of the country:
Physical activities, non-contact sports and group classes are allowed in academies, gyms and other sport related spaces, based on a reservation, registration of client details and observing a 4-metre social distancing.
People over 60 years must have an exclusive area or time to perform physical activities.
People over 60 years and people with disabilities that require assistance can be accompanied by another person over 18 years old.
Children must be accompanied by an adult member of their family and interact only with those that are part of their family.
Cultural and Religious activities:
Red level cities:
Cultural activities can take place with up 25 people in closed spaces and up to 50 people in outdoors or open spaces, observing a 2-metre social distancing, mandatory use of facemasks, previous registration and in compliance with sanitary measures.
Religious services with up to 25 people are permitted in closed spaces and up to 50 people in open spaces, observing a 2 metre social distancing, mandatory use of facemasks, with preassigned seating, previous registration and in compliance with sanitary measures.
Rest of the country:
Cultural activities can take place with up 75 people in closed spaces and up to 150 people in outdoors or open spaces, observing a 2-metre social distancing, mandatory use of facemasks, previous registration and in compliance with sanitary measures.
Religious services with up to 75 people are permitted in closed spaces and up to 150 people in open spaces, observing a 2 metre social distancing, mandatory use of facemasks, with preassigned seating, previous registration and in compliance with sanitary measures.
Further information
For exhaustive information, visit the Paraguayan Ministry of Health website (in Spanish).
The Paraguayan government has announced that, if the circumstances require it, further localised restrictions may be put into place. You should follow local government guidelines stated on the Paraguayan Ministry of Health website (in Spanish).
Healthcare in Paraguay
If you think you have COVID-19 symptoms, dial the Ministry of Health hotline at 154.
The public healthcare system varies across the country, and in some cities in Paraguay, the additional burden of treating Covid-19 patients might affect services such as accident and emergency care. Some private hospitals might not accept credit card payments for admissions and only accept patients with valid health insurance. Short-term foreign visitors are required to demonstrate proof of medical insurance before boarding their flight to Paraguay. Check with your airline carrier.
Check if your travel or health insurance has comprehensive cover for coronavirus and refer to official channels in your location for further details.
People with COVID-19 symptoms, that have recently come in contact with someone with COVID-19, or have recently travelled internationally are eligible for testing by booking an appointment by calling the Ministry of Health’s hotline at 154, but results from public laboratories may take up to a week to arrive.
For contact details for English speaking doctors, visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Paraguay.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Paraguay
Wherever possible British nationals should aim to be vaccinated in the country where they live. As further information is available about the Paraguayan national vaccination programme, this page will be updated. Sign up to get email notifications.
The Paraguayan authorities have issued the national vaccination programme (only available in Spanish). Vaccination is occurring in priority phases and is voluntary and free of charge. Resident British Nationals with a locally issued cédula de identidad (identity card) are eligible to register within the vaccination programme on the same basis as Paraguayan nationals. Information about priority group categories are included on the national vaccination programme website . Please refer to official guidance from local authorities for further information.
The Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) is the UK authority responsible for assessing the safety, quality and efficacy of vaccines. It has authorised the Pfizer/BioNTech, Oxford/AstraZeneca and Moderna vaccines for temporary supply and use in the UK. Find out more about MHRA approval for these vaccines.
British nationals living overseas should seek medical advice from their local healthcare provider in the country where they reside. Information about vaccines used in other national programmes, including regulatory status, should be available from the local authorities. This list of Stringent Regulatory Authorities recognised by the World Health Organisation may also be a useful source of additional information. Find out more information about the COVID-19 vaccines on the World Health Organization COVID-19 vaccines page.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements.
Further information
Further information is also available on the Paraguayan Ministry of Health website or official Twitter channel (both in Spanish).
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
