This page has information on travelling to Paraguay. Check what you must do to return to the UK.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Paraguay set and enforce entry rules.
If you’re fully vaccinated
Fully vaccinated travellers can enter Paraguay. Travellers aged 18 years and older must be able to prove their full vaccination status by presenting evidence of a full vaccination scheme. Travellers aged 17 years and under are exempt from presenting proof of vaccination (see ‘Children and young people’).
The vaccination certificate must contain the following information:
Traveller’s name
Date of birth
Document or passport number
Identification of the vaccine manufacturer
Batch number of applied doses
Dose application date
Vaccination certificates must be in English, French, Portuguese or Spanish. Certificates in other languages, including coded languages, will not be accepted.
Only travellers who have completed 2 weeks since their final dose are considered fully vaccinated. Paraguay recognises as final the second dose in a two-dose vaccination scheme, or a single dose in a single-dose vaccination scheme.
Before travelling to Paraguay, all travellers aged 12 years and older – regardless of vaccination status – are required to complete an online Traveller’s Health Declaration Form, up to 24 hours prior to entering the country. After completion, a QR code will be generated, which should be saved and presented upon request, for example to the airline at check-in and to the Paraguayan authorities upon arrival.
All travellers aged 12 years and older – regardless of vaccination status – are also required to show a negative COVID-19 test result (RT-PCR, LAMP or NAAT) taken no more than 48 hours prior to travel, or a negative antigen test taken up to 24 hours before travel.
All travellers must present evidence of international health insurance, that includes COVID-19 coverage and undertake a COVID-19 PCR test on the 5th day after the pre-travel test – if still in Paraguay at that date. If the test comes back positive, the traveller will have to isolate for 7 days.
Children aged 11 years and younger are exempt from presenting the traveller’s health declaration form, proof of vaccination and the 5th day after the pre-travel test.
Travellers aged 12 years and older who have tested positive for COVID-19 between 14 and 90 days prior to entering the country are exempt from the requirement to provide a pre-departure test, however they must prove this situation with documentation from their health care provider and laboratory results showing positive antigens.
All travellers - regardless of vaccination status - are required to wear a facemask covering mouth, nose and chin.
Entry to Paraguay upon arrival may be refused for not adhering to these requirements.
For further information on entry requirements, you can visit Paraguay’s Health Ministry website (in Spanish).
Proof of vaccination status
You must present proof that you have been fully vaccinated to enter Paraguay.
Paraguay will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 recovery and vaccination record and proof of COVID-19 vaccination issued in the Crown Dependencies. Your second dose must have been administered at least 14 days prior to travel. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
If you’re not fully vaccinated
Travellers who do not have a full vaccination scheme may be refused entry and deported unless they fall into specific categories listed below, which are subject to special provisions.
1. Foreign nationals with residency in Paraguay who are not vaccinated or have an incomplete vaccination scheme
Upon entering Paraguayan territory, you must observe preventive isolation for ten days at your home, hotel or place of residence. On the fifth day of isolation, a RT-PCR test should be performed; if the result is negative, you will be able to return to your activities immediately, and if the result is positive, you must isolate for five more days and send your laboratory result to the following email address: viajerosbase@gmail.com
2. Humanitarian reasons for unvaccinated non-resident foreigners
Unvaccinated non-resident foreigners must send an email to: viajerosbase@gmail.com, 48 hours before their travel, clarifying the reason for which they are requesting their entry, also presenting documentation that proves said situation, and await a response before travel. (See Annex 1. Authorisation model).
The local government considers humanitarian reasons as follows:
The non-resident foreigner must go to the aid of a person or persons who are in an imminent situation of vulnerability.
The foreigner is a victim of natural catastrophe or violence, whose life or integrity is in danger, or who enters to carry out relief or rescue actions in emergency situations in the country, or care for a family member due to serious health conditions.
People who travel for compelling family reasons duly accredited, or documented reasons of force majeure or necessity. The different cases will be accredited with medical certificates, birth certificates, death certificates, resolutions of public authorities, etc.
3. Foreign investors, entrepreneurs and specialised technicians who need to enter the country for a maximum stay of up to 7 days
They must send an email to the following email address: viajerosbase@gmail.com, 72 hours prior to their trip, clarifying the reason for which they are requesting their entry, also presenting documentation - listed below - that proves said situation, and await a response before travel. (See Annex 2. Authorisation model).
Documents to be sent via email:
Photocopy of identity card/passport.
Reason for travel.
Length of stay in the country (date of return to the country of origin).
Hotel reservation.
Address of residence during the stay in the country.
Telephone number of a responsible contact in the country.
Name of the beneficiary company or institution in the case of specialised assistance.
Tentative schedule of activities and places where the activities that originated the trip will take place.
In all the aforementioned cases, when obtaining authorisation to enter the country by email, they must present it in printed form at the time of arrival to Paraguay.
Travellers should be aware that viajerosbase@gmail.com intends to respond within 48 hours but delays may occur.
All travellers who are permitted to enter Paraguay but do not have proof of vaccination must enter preventative isolation for ten days upon their arrival, at a hotel or residence of their choosing.
They must also take a COVID-19 PCR test on the 5th day of isolation. Should the test result be negative, they end isolation. Should the test result be positive, they must isolate for five more days and send their test results to viajerosbase@gmail.com.
Children and young people
Children aged 17 years and under are exempt from presenting proof of vaccination but not from presenting the traveller’s health declaration form, pre-departure test and the 5th day after the pre-travel test.
Children aged 11 years and younger are exempt from presenting the traveller’s health declaration form, pre-departure test, proof of vaccination and the 5th day after the pre-travel test.
Exceptions
Paraguayan nationals and foreign nationals resident in neighbouring countries, a MERCOSUR party state or associate country are exempt of the requirement to show evidence of international health insurance with COVID-19 coverage.
Travellers coming from neighbouring countries, MERCOSUR party states or from states that share a border with Paraguay as the origin of travel are exempt from the requirement to present a negative PCR or antigen COVID-19 test before travel.
Travellers coming from neighbouring countries, MERCOSUR party states or from states that share a border with Paraguay as the origin of travel are also exempt from taking a COVID-19 PCR test on the 5th day after the pre-travel test, unless they present symptoms. If they present symptoms during their stay, the traveller must get an RT-PCR test, submit the result to viajerosbase@gmail.com, and isolate for ten days.
Land transit in border regions for commercial reasons is allowed for up to 72 hours and up to 30 km without any of the aforementioned requirements for those who can show proof of residency in a border city.
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
Passport validity
If you are visiting Paraguay, your passport should be valid for the proposed duration of your stay.
Check with your travel provider to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Visas
British Passport holders do not need a visa to enter Paraguay. On presentation of a valid British passport you will normally be granted a 90-day stay in the country.
You must make sure on arrival that your passport is stamped by an immigration official, dated and signed. Anybody without an entry stamp in their passport will be fined when they leave the country. This is particularly important for anyone entering Paraguay at a land border, typically the crossing between Ciudad del Este and Foz de Iguazu (Brazil). Sometimes long distance bus drivers tell foreign nationals that they can complete immigration formalities in Asunción. This is not true, and visitors will incur a fine if they do not get their passport stamped at the point of entry.
If you wish to extend your stay for another 90-day period, seek advice from the Paraguayan Dirección General de Migraciones website (in Spanish).
If you are travelling to Paraguay to work or study you should contact the Paraguayan Embassy in London.
Travelling with children
If you’re under 18, travelling across borders in the region without one or both parents, it’s advisable to have written permission to travel from both parents, duly certified by the Paraguayan Embassy in London, or your nearest Paraguayan Embassy. Single parents or other adults travelling alone with children should be aware that immigration officers often request documentary evidence of parental responsibility before allowing lone parents to enter the country or, in some cases, before permitting the children to leave the country. For more information on this contact the Paraguayan Embassy in London.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents are accepted for entry, airside transit and exit from Paraguay. The validity requirements are the same as for full validity British passports. If you plan to travel to Argentina or the US you will need a visa in your ETD. You must contact the nearest Embassies of those countries in order to apply.
Be aware that the British Embassy in Asunción does not produce ETDs. In case you require an ETD it will be done so through the British Embassy in Buenos Aires.
Returning to the UK
Check what you must do to return to the UK.
