At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Coronavirus
There is an ongoing outbreak of coronavirus (COVID-19), with cases confirmed in Paraguay. The FCO advise against all but essential travel to Paraguay, due to the ongoing coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and in line with various controls and restrictions imposed by the Paraguayan authorities.
On 12 March, the government announced a suspension of direct flights to and from Spain from 13 - 26 March. Air Europa provide the only direct service between Europe and Paraguay.
On 16 March, Paraguay announced a national State of Sanitary Emergency. As part of this, borders are closed for non-resident foreigners. Meanwhile all travellers entering Paraguay, including nationals, foreign residents and British nationals who have already arrived in Paraguay within the last 14 days, need to remain in self-isolation for 14 days. Freedom of movement is restricted from 08:00 pm to 04:00 am. Further details can be found on the Paraguayan Ministry of Interior’s website (in Spanish).
Non-resident British nationals in Paraguay who wish to leave should contact their airline or tour operator. We suggest you look at booking flights through other countries such as Brazil while it is still a possibility.
All British nationals in Paraguay should follow the advice of the Paraguayan authorities. From 18 March, the Paraguayan government has closed the country’s airports for all entering except Paraguayan citizens and resident foreign nationals until 30 March and has closed the bridge between the city of Ciudad del Este and Foz de Iguacu (Brazil). However, this measure might be extended with little to no notice.
The Paraguayan authorities have implemented measures such as the temporary closure of schools, universities and public parks, and are asking people to stay at home. This measure also includes the cancellation of mass events (public and private) such as concerts, religious, sports, leisure and political activities plus gatherings in closed theatres such as cinemas and conventions. The measures are in place since 11 March and will last for 15 days.
These regulations are subject to change and the situation is changing rapidly. Please follow the instructions of the Paraguayan authorities as new measures may be brought in with short notice.
If you present symptoms after having entered the country, you should contact the Paraguayan Ministry of Health at 154 / 911 or INERAM hospital at (021) 290 838. British nationals in Paraguay should follow the advice of the Paraguayan authorities.
Further information is also available on the Paraguayan Ministry of Health website or the official Twitter channel (both in Spanish).
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
You can find more information about cases in Paraguay on the TravelHealthPro country page.
Health risks
UK health authorities have classified Paraguay as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For information and advice about the risks associated with Zika virus, visit the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
There are regular outbreaks of dengue fever. Rain and flooding can lead to an increase in dengue carrying mosquitoes, leaving affected areas more vulnerable to dengue outbreaks. There have also been reported cases of the chikungunya virus, mainly of local residents returning from affected countries. You should take precautions to avoid being bitten by mosquitoes.
Local medical care
Facilities for good private medical care exist but are limited to the major cities. Hospitals and GPs will expect immediate payment for medical services. The availability of certain types of medicines cannot be guaranteed. Elsewhere, facilities may not meet acceptable standards. If you need a regular prescription you should bring enough with you. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 141 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
