Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

If you are stuck in Paraguay, send your contact details, by email to UKinParaguay@fco.gov.uk. Note that owing to travel restrictions there is limited consular assistance that the embassy can provide, particularly outside Asuncion.
There are currently no commercial options available to return to the UK from Paraguay. Paraguay’s borders remain closed until midnight on 26 April. The Paraguayan government announced on 24 March that all passenger flights have been suspended until 26 April.
This information may change at very short notice. You must check flights / connecting flights with your travel agent / insurers before booking.
We know this is concerning for British people trying to leave Paraguay. The UK government is working closely with airlines, the Paraguayan authorities and other governments to make sure options are available for you to return to the UK as soon as possible.
What to do
If you cannot leave Paraguay at this time, you should:
follow the advice of local authorities, including local measures to help minimise your risk of exposure to coronavirus.
find accommodation that’s suitable for your needs.
keep in regular contact with family and friends at home, so they know you are safe and well.
sign up to email alerts for this travel advice and follow the British Embassy on Facebook and other social media accounts.
See more information and advice about staying where you are if you cannot return to the UK.
Future travel options
The UK government is working closely with airlines, the Paraguayan authorities and other governments to make sure options are available for you to return to the UK as soon as possible. You can also register your details with us at UKinParaguay@fco.gov.uk
The French government is organising a repatriation flight to Paris for the week beginning 27 April. Timing and prices are to be confirmed but it will range between 500 to 600 Euros, economy class. The French embassy in Asuncion have requested details of individuals who may wish to book a seat(s). If you are interested, send an email to UKinParaguay@fco.gov.uk with the following information:
Name and surname (as it appears on your passport)
Email address
Passport number and expiration date
Address in Paraguay
Address in Europe
Telephone number
Number of dependants travelling with you and their details per above
There are commercial routes between France and UK but airlines are operating under heavily reduced services. Options and requirements for onward travel from Paris to the UK can be found on the Return to the UK section of France’s travel advice page. Check airlines and travel websites, including comparison websites for the latest times and information.
Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British Embassy on Twitter and Facebook.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Your journey home
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British Embassy 24/7 on +595 21 614 588.
The Embassy cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone. This page will be updated when departure options become available. To get the latest information, sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British Embassy Asuncion on Twitter and Facebook.
Further information
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
