

This guide also has safety advice for regions of Paraguay.
Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Paraguay
Terrorist attacks in Paraguay cannot be ruled out.
Political situation
Demonstrations and protests
There is often social conflict in Paraguay. Groups may set up blockades as a form of protest along the main roads and in downtown Asunción near government buildings. This disrupts public transport and leads to widespread delays often with little warning.
If this happens, avoid large gatherings, monitor local media and follow the guidance of local authorities.
Crime
Protecting yourself and your belongings
Bag-snatching and pickpocketing are a problem on public transport. Many foreigners choose to use taxis rather than take buses. Keep your bags within sight at all times when travelling, and be wary of anyone offering to help you.  
Muggers are occasionally violent and can be armed. Carrying large amounts of cash or wearing expensive jewellery can make you a target. To reduce the risk of attacks:
use ATMs inside buildings rather than on the street
call a licensed taxi from a landline or a hotel rather than hailing one in the street
keep items like mobile phones and wallets out of sight
keep valuables and passports in a safe place
You might be asked for photo ID if you pay by credit card. Many people choose to carry their photo ID in a money belt under their clothes, to keep it secure.
At night, keep away from isolated or poorly lit areas, including in the downtown areas of major cities.
Organised crime
Criminal organisations carry out drug trafficking and arms smuggling, often in the border regions. They have also carried out isolated violent attacks in Asunción and elsewhere. These attacks have usually been aimed at the Paraguayan security forces and people associated with rival gangs. Tourists have not been the target of such incidents, but bystanders could be affected.
In recent years there has been a small number of high-profile kidnappings. Although foreigners are not routinely targeted, you should be vigilant. See the safety advice for regions of Paraguay. 
Reporting crime
To report a crime, go to the nearest police station, or call the tourist police:
Asunción: (595 21) 446 608 or (595 21) 449 020
Ciudad del Este: (595 61) 502 715
Encarnación: (595 71) 204 102
Salto del Guairá: (595 46) 243 575
Laws and cultural differences
Personal ID
You must always carry ID. Carry a copy or printout of the photo page of your passport, and a copy of your entry stamp.
If you are resident in Paraguay, the authorities will issue you with an identity card.
Illegal drugs and prison sentences
There are severe penalties for trafficking and possession of illegal drugs. If you are caught in possession of or trafficking drugs, you may get a prison sentence, without bail. Prison standards are poor.
LGBT+ travellers
Same-sex sexual activity is not illegal and there is a small, active LGBT+ community in Asunción. Same-sex marriages are not recognised in Paraguay. People are likely to disapprove of same-sex couples showing affection in public. Find more information on the websites of LGBT+ organisations like Aireana, Panambi and SOMOSGAY.
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Risks at public venues
Safety regulations at public venues may be non-existent or poorly enforced.   
Food stalls burning fuel and using power cables with poor electricity standards present a constant fire risk in markets. The risk is heightened because markets are often located in narrow streets and can be crowded.
Outdoor activities and adventure tourism
Swimming safety
Many rivers have strong currents which make them dangerous for swimming. The River Paraguay around Asunción is highly polluted and not suitable for swimming.
Check the latest official advice before swimming in Lake Ypacaraí, the tourist destination close to Asunción.
See water safety on holiday from the Royal Life Saving Society.
Transport risks
Road travel
If you are planning to drive in Paraguay, see information on driving abroad.
You can use a UK photocard driving licence to drive in Paraguay. If you still have a paper driving licence, you may need to update it to a photocard licence or get the correct version of the international driving permit (IDP) as well.
You’ll need to have your driving licence and your passport showing the entry stamp with you in the car.
There are regular police checks nationwide, usually to check the vehicle and driver’s documents (passport, entry stamp, driving licence) and carry out breathalyser tests. Police checks are common in Asunción, its neighbouring cities and the San Pedro and Concepción departments.
The legal blood alcohol limit is 0.00%. If a police officer suspects you of drink-driving, they can confiscate your licence on the spot. If you’re convicted, you can expect a heavy fine. 
Driving standards
Driving standards are poor and there are often traffic accidents, particularly involving motorbikes. Many motorcyclists drive with no crash helmets.
Some vehicles drive with no lights at night. Driving on country roads at night can be particularly dangerous.
Drivers in Paraguay often ignore stop signs, traffic lights and speed limits. In many areas, there are no road signs indicating hazards. Road signs are generally poor and can be confusing.
Paraguay’s network of paved main roads is limited. Minor and rural roads remain unpaved and are often impassable during the rainy season. Even major paved roads, including in Asunción, can be flooded during heavy rain. Large potholes are a hazard on most roads, including in Asunción.
Public transport
Many taxis and buses do not meet European standards and rarely have functioning seat belts.
The ‘Terminal de Omnibus Asunción’ is the main bus terminal for long-distance journeys.
River travel
Many vessels do not meet the health and safety standards that would apply in the UK.
Extreme weather and natural disasters
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards.
Flooding
Heavy rainfall and flooding can affect several areas, including some areas of Asunción and neighbouring cities. Monitor local media and follow the instructions of local authorities.
Wildfires
During especially hot and dry periods a single spark or flame can start a wildfire. Report fires to the emergency services immediately.
