This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Paraguay as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Paraguay to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Paraguay
For information on entering Paraguay, see Entry Requirements.
Paraguayan authorities have declared a nationwide health-related State of Emergency. Measures include:
a ban on all non-essential movement nationwide. There are exceptions to buy food, go to the pharmacy or hospital, and for key workers. Stay in your accommodation unless absolutely necessary to go out
in-person classes have been suspended for 2020
a requirement to wear a face mask in public, including on public transport, throughout Paraguay
If you’re in Paraguay, follow the advice of the Paraguayan authorities.
Easing of restrictions
From 4 May onwards, “smart quarantine” measures were introduced to relax nationwide measures in 4 phases. Phase 1 started on 4 May, phase 2 on 25 May, phase 3 on 15 June and phase 4 began with regional variance on 20 July. For exhaustive information on each phase, visit the Paraguayan Ministry of Health website (in Spanish).
Phase 1 consisted of the reopening of industries, small businesses with up to 3 people inside, and all delivery services.
Phase 2 consisted of the reopening of corporate buildings with up to 50% of the workforce present and under a rotation schedule. This included civil construction, shopping centres and medium-sized businesses, hairdressers, religious services with restrictions, and moving services.
Phase 3 consisted of the limited reopening of restaurants and indoor gyms by appointment only, outdoor exercise for up to two people, drive-in cinema and other cultural activities with social distancing measures. This also included individual physical activity in sports clubs and private parks, religious activities, such as baptisms and weddings, in groups of up to 20 people.
Phase 4 was introduced nationwide on 20 July, with regional exceptions, set out below, that are subject to review.
In addition to the activities permitted during Phase 1, 2 and 3, Phase 4 consists on the reopening of hotels and events in observance of health and safety protocols. In addition, religious meetings may be held with a maximum of 50 people; social gatherings with no more than 10 people; while events can reach 20 people with registration controls.
The ban on all non-essential movement is in place from 11pm to 5am (Sundays to Thursdays) and from 12am to 5am (Friday to Saturday).
Both Asuncion and Central departments remain on Phase 3. Alto Parana department has been returned to ‘Phase 0’, based on the increase of cases locally. The following activities, in compliance with sanitary protocols, are permitted in Alto Parana:
opening of businesses from 5am to 5pm,
visiting pharmacies and supermarkets,
delivery of goods.
The following industries are also permitted to operate:
food supply industries,
banking
agroindustry,
construction work,
cargo transportation,
import and sale of petrol,
garbage collection,
government entities with minimal staff performing work.
During this level of restrictions, funeral services may be performed. Bars, restaurants and gyms will remain closed.
The Paraguayan government has announced that further localised restrictions may be put into place, please follow local government guidelines stated on the Paraguayan Ministry of Health website (in Spanish).
Visas
Due to travel restrictions, the Paraguayan immigration authorities have automatically extended the 90-day permission for tourists and non-residents to stay in Paraguay from 13 March onwards, for the duration of the emergency.
You can find more information on the Paraguayan Dirección General de Migraciones website (in Spanish).
Health
If you present symptoms, you should contact the Paraguayan Ministry of Health at 154 or INERAM hospital at (021) 290 838.
People who have tested positive for COVID-19 and do not need to be admitted to hospital, will stay in specialised shelters. This includes the following:
those who would like to do so voluntarily
those in vulnerable situations whose accommodation is not suitable for self-isolation (because it is crowded and/or small)
those who have broken self-isolation
those who have come from abroad and tested positive during their quarantine period
Further information is also available on the Paraguayan Ministry of Health website or official Twitter channel (both in Spanish).
For contact details for English speaking doctors, visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Paraguay.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Paraguay, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
