The FCDO advises against all but essential travel to:
the whole of Paraguay based on the current assessment of COVID-19 risks.
Travel to Paraguay is subject to entry restrictions
From 21 December 2020 until 4 January 2021, the following entry restrictions are in place:
Entry to Paraguay by non-resident foreign nationals that have visited the UK since 7 December is not permitted.
Residents of Paraguay who have visited the UK since 7 December are required to seek the permission of the Paraguayan government to enter Paraguay, arrive with a negative PCR test within 72 hours of arrival and remain in quarantine for 10 days in a ‘health hotel’ or government provided accommodation.
Arrivals to Paraguay from the UK between 14 December and 21 December should isolate at home for 7 days from their arrival date.
Entry for individuals that have not been in the UK since 7 December is subject to local health protocols.
See Entry requirements for more information before you plan to travel.
Preparing for your return journey to the UK
If you’re returning to the UK from overseas, you will need to:
provide your journey and contact details before you travel
check if you need to self-isolate on your return
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
If you’re planning travel to Paraguay, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCDO’s guidance on foreign travel insurance.
On 15 October, the Paraguayan government opened select land border crossings with Brazil. On 21 October, international commercial flights resumed to certain locations in Latin America and one direct flight to Europe (Madrid) expected per month. There are no direct commercial flights to the UK.
On 21 December, the Paraguayan government announced that until 4 January 2021, non-resident foreign nationals that have been in the United Kingdom since 7 December will not be allowed entry to Paraguay. Entry for Paraguayans and resident foreign nationals that have visited the UK since 7 December is subject to exceptional authorisation from the Paraguayan government, a negative PCR test result within 72 hours of arrival and completion of 10 days of quarantine upon arrival in a ‘health hotel’ or government provided accommodation. Entry for Paraguayan residents that have not been in the UK since 7 December are subject to health protocols.. See Entry requirements
The British embassy in Paraguay is open, with in-person appointments limited to essential business. If you have an urgent consular issue – such as a request for an Emergency Travel Document – you will need to pre-book an appointment online. We are not able to respond to British nationals who visit without a pre-booked appointment.
A small number of British tourists visit Paraguay every year. Most visits are trouble-free, but violent crime is increasing. See Crime
Demonstrations take place frequently in the downtown area of Asunción, particularly in the proximity of government buildings and offices, often without warning. You should avoid large gatherings, monitor local media and follow the guidance of local authorities. See Demonstrations
UK health authorities have classified Paraguay as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For more information and advice, visit the website of the National Travel Health Network and Centre and check the recommendations for vaccination. For information and advice about the risks associated with Zika virus, visit the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
There are reported cases of dengue fever. The most affected regions are Asunción and the Central department, although there is a risk of dengue fever throughout the country. See Health
Due to an increase in reported cases of yellow fever in Brazil, you should follow the necessary requirements for vaccination if you’re arriving from Brazil, including making sure you’re vaccinated 10 days prior to arrival. See Entry requirements
Terrorist attacks in Paraguay can’t be ruled out. See Terrorism
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.
The Overseas Business Risk service offers information and advice for British companies operating overseas on how to manage political, economic, and business security-related risks.
The Money Advice Service can help you to consider the type of insurance you need. It is a free and independent service set up by government.
