Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Iceland on the TravelHealthPro website.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
Commercial flights to and from Iceland remain very limited. Check with your travel company for the latest information.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Iceland.
Returning to the UK
Travelling from and returning to the UK
Check what you must do to travel abroad and return to England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
If you plan to pass through another country to return to the UK, check the travel advice for the country you’re transiting. If you will pass through a red list country, book your hotel quarantine package before travelling to the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements. You should contact local authorities for information on testing facilities. See information above in the ‘When you’re abroad’ section.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
When you’re abroad
You should liaise closely with your travel company or airline to ensure you are aware of any changes to schedules. Plan for the risks of disruption and local domestic measures affecting your travel when arranging your return to the UK.
If you will be returning to the UK, prepare for your return journey by pre-booking your arrival tests where required and completing the passenger locator form.
If you require a pre-departure test for travel to the UK you can request a booking online for an asymptomatic C-19 PCR test. The process differs if you are within or outside the greater Reykjavik area.
Payment is taken at the time of booking. You should request the certificate to be in English. You can have it sent electronically or printed for pick up at the health centre. You will be sent a bar code on your mobile phone which you will need to present on day of test. Tests will take place at Sudurlandsbraut 34, Reykjavik if applying in the greater Reykjavik area. You should receive you results within 24hrs of taking the test. The total cost is approx ISK 14,000 (£80) for those registered in the Icelandic health system or approx ISK 24,000 (£138) for those not registered in the Icelandic health system. This includes cost of clinic, test and certificate.
Travel in Iceland
There are currently no restrictions on travel within Iceland. However, you should regularly monitor government announcements for any rapid changes on the Government of Iceland website.
Accommodation
Hotels and private rentals are open.
You will be expected to follow any COVID-19 related requirements that are displayed in hotels, guesthouses, car rentals and other tourism companies throughout the country.
Public spaces and services
Restrictions include social distancing and bans on gatherings over certain numbers.
Detailed and up to date information on the full range of restrictions is at Covid.is (available in English).
You should also regularly monitor government announcements for any rapid changes at www.government.is/.
Iceland will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 recovery and vaccination record. If you are travelling with a printed PDF proof of vaccination status, it must date from 1 November to ensure that the certificate can be scanned successfully, if domestic certification is required. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
Healthcare in Iceland
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
If you think you have COVID-19 or cold- like symptoms during your visit to Iceland then you must call the Health line on +354 544 4113 before going to a hospital or clinic.
In Iceland, examinations for notifiable diseases (including COVID-19) and their treatment is of no cost to the patient. But this does not apply to an elective PCR-test to diagnose COVID-19.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Iceland.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Iceland
Wherever possible British nationals should aim to be vaccinated in the country where they live. We will update this page when the Government of Iceland announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
Iceland’s national vaccination programme started in December 2020 and is using the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine. British nationals resident in Iceland are eligible for vaccination, as per their prioritisation criteria. The Icelandic authorities have issued guidance on vaccine rollout in Iceland. You should look at the Priority groups and Vaccine organization sections to find out how you will get the vaccine.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in Iceland, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
If you receive your COVID-19 vaccination in Iceland, you can get an EU Digital COVID Certificate from the national authorities. The Certificate proves that you have been vaccinated against COVID-19, received a negative test result, or recovered from COVID-19. It will help facilitate your travel within the EU and, in some countries, you can use it to demonstrate your COVID-19 status to businesses and other organisations. For further information visit the European Commission’s EU Digital COVID Certificate page.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further Information
Full information on the COVID 19 situation in Iceland, their requirements and advice is available in English at Covid.is.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British Embassy on +354 550 5100.
