This page has information on travelling to Iceland. Check what you must do to return to the UK.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport from the UK, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Iceland set and enforce entry rules.
All travellers
Due to COVID-19 restrictions, non-essential travel by British citizens from the UK/other non EU/EEA country to Iceland is only permitted if you are resident in Iceland, or can adequately demonstrate you have either been fully vaccinated against COVID-19 or previously recovered from COVID-19 infection.
If you are traveling to Iceland for work read the guidance on visas and permits as the rules changed the 1 January 2021.
All passengers travelling to Iceland are encouraged to sign up to the contact tracing app Rakning C-19. Further information, including how to download it, data usage, privacy and scope is available on the Rakning C-19 website.
All passengers need to Pre-register before travelling to Iceland.
All passengers need to provide a vaccination certificate or a certificate of a previous infection. The certificates need to meet Iceland criteria of certificates.
All passengers must undergo testing upon arrival. Testing can be done at Keflavik airport.
If you’re fully vaccinated
If you’re fully vaccinated or you have a certificate of a previous COVID-19 infection, find out if you qualify as fully vaccinated in Iceland on the Covid.is - list of accepted vaccines.
Vaccinated passengers, without a network of family ties in Iceland need to present a negative COVID-19 test either a PCR or Rapid antigen test. Self-tests of any kind are not accepted by the Icelandic authorities (even though it’s a rapid antigen self-test). The test must have been taken within 72 hours before departure on the first leg of the journey. A fine for not presenting a negative COVID-19 test at the border is 100.000 ISK
If a traveller has recently been diagnosed with COVID-19, they do not need to present a negative PCR or rapid antigen test at the border. Instead, a positive PCR test must be presented that is older than 7 days (isolation completed) but younger than 180 days. See the Covid.is website for more information
At least 14 days must have passed since your second dose of the vaccine and the vaccine must be approved by the European Medicines Agency (EMA) or the World Health Organization (WHO).
Proof of vaccination status
Iceland will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 recovery and vaccination record and proof of COVID-19 vaccination issued in the Crown Dependencies. Your final vaccine dose must have been administered at least 14 days prior to travel. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
If the slightest suspicion arises that an individual has presented a forged certificate, he/she/they will be obliged to be tested twice with quarantine in between.
See the full guidance in English.
Residents of Iceland
Those who live in Iceland, or who have a network there, must go for COVID-19 testing within 48 hours of arriving in Iceland. They do not have to present a negative COVID-19 test at the border. Testing can be obtained at the border in Keflavík or at the health care centres all over Iceland. There is no need to quarantine while waiting for the results of this test, but travellers are asked to attend to personal infection control, limit contact with vulnerable individuals and be alert to the symptoms of COVID-19.
Those who live in Iceland or have a network there and present a certificate of a previous infection that is older than 14 days but younger than 180 days do not need to undergo testing within 48 hours of arrival.
See the full guidance in English
If you’re not fully vaccinated
Find out if you qualify as fully vaccinated in Iceland on the Covid.is - list of accepted vaccines
If you are not fully vaccinated you need to present a negative PCR test certificate against COVID-19. Rapid antigen tests are not valid. The test must have been taken within 72 hours before departure on the first leg of the journey. A fine for not presenting a negative PCR-test is at the border is 100.000 ISK
Everybody must quarantine for five days and go for another PCR test at the end of quarantine. Please note that a new day begins at midnight. People may quarantine at home provided that their accommodation meets certain conditions. See the list of accommodations that accommodate guests in quarantine.
The second test is done at health centres around Iceland. A bar code is sent to a mobile phone the night before testing. Please note the different opening hours for testing.
Go directly to the quarantine location from the border entry point by airport bus, taxi, rental car or private car. Travellers are advised to stay overnight at a guesthouse near the border entry point if they are tired or the weather is bad.
A positive result will always result in isolation, and in such cases, the instructions on home isolation must be followed. If an individual is diagnosed with a variant of the virus that is more contagious and/or causes a more serious illness, the person in question is unconditionally required to stay in a quarantine hotel. Isolation in the quarantine hotel is free of charge, and referral is in the hands of the infection tracing team and the COVID Outpatient Department at Landspítali.
See the full guidance in English
Children and young people
Children born in or before 2004 need to undergo testing at the border, quarantine for 5 days and then be tested a second time, unless they have a certificate of full vaccination. Children born in 2005 or later are exempt from the rules at the border.
If you are travelling with a child, and need to be quarantined, so will the child. The child will be released from quarantine if your second test on day 5-6 is negative. Children travelling alone do not need to quarantine.
Travel from high risk countries
Iceland defines certain countries as high risk for travel. You will be prohibited from entering Iceland if you are travelling from, or have recently been in, these countries and do not have an acceptable certificate of vaccination or of previous infection.
If you are resident in Iceland, or have the permission of the Icelandic Authorities to travel from, or have in the previous 14 days stayed in, these areas you may need to stay in managed quarantine facilities if you do not have a suitable place to self-isolate in Iceland. These measures will significantly affect what you can and cannot do on arrival. If you have booked a trip to Iceland you should contact your tour operator and travel insurer about what this means for you and your plans.
If you’re transiting through Iceland
Transiting is when you pass through one country on the way to your final destination.
Connecting passengers
Travel restrictions do not apply to other EEA/EFTA-citizens and citizens of Monaco, San Marino, and the Vatican.
Third-country citizens are still not authorized to travel to Iceland unless exemptions apply. Note: As of January 1st 2021, UK nationals have the status of third-country nationals.
Rules at the border are in force until 28 February 2022.
Rules on the border
Transit passengers who do not leave the airport are exempt from travel restrictions at the border.
Exemptions
Exemptions due to essential travel
Passengers in airport transit
Employees in healthcare services and geriatric services.
Employees responsible for the transportation of goods and services.
Individuals needing international protection.
Individuals travelling because of an acute family incident.
Individuals and delegations who travel to the country under the aegis of the Icelandic government, staff of diplomatic missions; and other representatives of foreign countries; international organisation staff and their guests who need to travel to the country due to the activities of these organisations; members of armed forces travelling to Iceland for duty; humanitarian aid workers; staff of civil protection; and family members of the aforementioned parties.
Students.*
Persons who essentially need to travel to Iceland for business purposes or work of such a nature that it cannot be postponed or performed abroad.*
For further information and full guidance visit the Icelandic border control website
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
Passport validity
If you are planning to travel to an EU country (except Ireland), or Switzerland, Norway, Iceland, Liechtenstein, Andorra, Monaco, San Marino or Vatican City, you must meet the the Schengen area rules.
Your passport must meet 2 requirements. It must be:
less than 10 years old on the day you enter (check the ‘date of issue’)
valid for at least 3 months after the day you plan to leave (check the ‘expiry date’)
We are asking the European Commission to clarify the 10-year rule. Their guidance for Schengen border guards may not be updated until the spring of 2022. Until then, for some Schengen countries your passport may need to be less than 10 years old during your whole visit, and the 3 months at the end of your visit may need to be within 10 years of your passport’s issue date.
Check both the issue date and the expiry date in your passport. If you renewed your passport early, extra months may have been added to its expiry date. This could affect the requirement for your passport to be less than 10 years old.
Contact your travel provider or embassy of the country you are visiting if you think that your passport does not meet both these requirements. Renew your passport if you need to.
Visas
You can travel to countries in the Schengen area for up to 90 days in any 180-day period without a visa. This applies if you travel as a tourist, to visit family or friends, to attend business meetings, cultural or sports events, or for short-term studies or training.
If you are travelling to Iceland and other Schengen countries without a visa, make sure your whole visit is within the 90-day limit. Visits to Schengen countries within the previous 180 days before you travel count towards your 90 days
To stay longer, to work or study, for business travel or for other reasons, you will need to meet the Icelandic entry requirements. Check with the Icelandic Directorate of Immigration what type of visa and/or work permit you may need.
If you are travelling to Iceland for work, read the guidance on visas and permits.
If you stay in Iceland with a residence permit or long-stay visa, this does not count towards your 90-day visa-free limit.
Passport stamping
Check your passport is stamped if you enter or exit the Schengen area through Iceland as a visitor. Border guards will use passport stamps to check you’re complying with the 90-day visa-free limit for short stays in the Schengen area. If relevant entry or exit stamps are not in your passport, border guards will presume that you have overstayed your visa-free limit.
You can show evidence of when and where you entered or exited the Schengen area, and ask the border guards to add this date and location in your passport. Examples of acceptable evidence include boarding passes and tickets.
You may also need to:
show a return or onward ticket
show you have enough money for your stay
If you are resident in Iceland, read our Living in Iceland guide for passport stamping information.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents are accepted for entry, airside transit and exit from Iceland.
Check with your travel provider to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Returning to the UK
Check what you must do to return to the UK.
