Iceland is volcanically and seismically active.
A fissure eruption occurred in March 2021 at Geldingadalur on the Reykjanes Penninsula and is still active. Larger volcanic eruptions took place in the area around the Bárðarbunga volcano on the Vatnajökull glacier in the east of Iceland in August 2014, and Eyjafjallajokull volcano in the south of Iceland in 2010 and Grimsvötn volcanoes erupted in 2010 and 2011 respectively causing disruption to Icelandic and European airspace.
Further volcanic eruptions are possible and there is the potential for sulphur dioxide and other volcanic gases to be emitted during eruptions as well as causing glacial floods. A YELLOW warning has been issued for the Askja volcano in South East Iceland. While an eruption is not thought to be imminent, you should monitor alerts from the Icelandic Met Office.
If you have existing respiratory conditions, take particular care, monitor emissions and follow the advice of the Icelandic authorities.
If you plan to visit the Geldingadalur eruption site please note its remote location. You can only reach the site via a hiking trail over rugged terrain that can take several hours. Good hiking shoes, warm clothing and wind and waterproof outerwear is essential. Beware gas emissions levels and follow advice of emergency services on site.
There has been seismic activity in the South West and North of Iceland. Tremors can be numerous but usually don’t cause damage. However, they can cause rock falls and avalanches in the mountain areas. You should take care when driving and hiking in these areas. Follow the safety advice of the Icelandic authorities.
Glacial floodwater is causing raised water levels of the river Skaftá which could affect nearby roads along the South Coast of Iceland and in the mountain areas. Travellers should stay vigilant of potential changing conditions in the area. Tourists are strongly advised to avoid the Skaftá river channel above Skaftárdalur as well as edges of areas of Vatnajokull, Skaftárjokull, Tungárjokull and Siðujokull areas due to hydrogen sulphide gas pollution that can occur from the glacial water runoff and cause respiratory issues.
Up to date information on seismic activity and the effects of volcanic eruptions in Iceland can be found on the following websites: 
Icelandic Meteorological Office
Icelandic Civil Protection and Emergency Management Authority - This also includes health advice.
Safe Travel Iceland
Icelandic Road and Coastal Administration
Institute of Earth Science
UK Volcanic Ash Advisory Centre
Icelandic Volcanoes
Icelandic National Broadcasting Service
You should check the latest information as you plan your trip.
