Coronavirus guidance is being updated.
Read the Prime Minister’s statement for the latest information.

There are commercial options to return to the UK from Iceland.
If you live in the UK and are currently visiting Iceland, you’re strongly advised to return now by commercial means. Don’t risk getting stranded.
UK special charter flights will only operate for priority countries where commercial flights are not possible. You should not assume that these flights will become available in Iceland because commercial routes are operating. Please do not contact the contracted travel management company if no flight is advertised here.
Flights
The only airlines currently flying from Iceland direct to the UK are Icelandair (London Heathrow) and Wizz Air (London Luton) on significantly reduced services.
If you’re trying to get back to the UK and need financial help, see the FCO’s guide on financial assistance.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK.
For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Travelling to the airport
The public bus company www.straeto.is is still running a service between Reykjavik and the airport.
Taxis are available.
Your journey home: re-entering the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK. You:
need to provide your journey and contact details up to 48 hours before you’re due to arrive in the UK
are not allowed to leave the place you’re staying for the first 14 days you’re in the UK except in very limited situations (known as ‘self-isolating’)
See also the list of people who are exempt from the border rules.
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) also provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British Embassy on +354 550 5100.
The Embassy cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone.
Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British Embassy on Twitter and Facebook.
If you cannot leave Iceland
If you cannot leave Iceland at this time, see advice on staying in Iceland during coronavirus.
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
