

 Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.    
Terrorism in Iceland
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Iceland, attacks cannot be ruled out.
Crime
Crime levels are low but petty theft and antisocial behaviour can occur, particularly around bars in downtown Reykjavík. Take sensible precautions and keep your belongings safe.      
Laws and cultural differences
Personal ID
You do not have to carry your passport with you, but it is sensible to have some form of ID, such as a photocard driving licence. You could also carry a copy of your passport’s photo page as ID. Keep your passport somewhere safe.
Smoking and e-cigarette bans
It is illegal to smoke or use e-cigarettes in restaurants, bars, public transport and public buildings, and you could get a fine.
Illegal drugs and prison sentences
It is illegal to possess even small amounts of drugs, including marijuana and khat. Anyone caught could get a heavy fine and a prison sentence.
LGBT+ travellers
Same-sex sexual activity is legal in Iceland and same-sex relationships are recognised in law.   
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Outdoor activities and adventure tourism
Hiking, mountaineering and other adventure sports have specific risks.
You should:
read the Safe Travel Iceland guides
leave travel plans and contact details with your hotel, or on Safe Travel Iceland
take a phone with you
Hiking and mountaineering
When hiking, choose a trail suited for your level of experience. Conditions in Iceland could be different to what you’re used to.
Going too close to the ocean, cliff edges and hot springs are common causes of accidents in Iceland.
Take enough food, equipment, clothing and emergency rations for the worst-case scenario. Use a map, compass, GPS and phone.
Transport risks
Road travel
If you are planning to drive in Iceland, see information on driving abroad and check the rules of the road in the RAC’s Iceland guide. The guide lists driving regulations and other legal requirements you need to be aware of or risk a sizeable fine up to £500. Follow speed limits, keep dipped headlights on year-round, and have suitable tyres (no studs between April and 15 October). Drink driving limits are also lower than the UK.
You can use a UK photocard driving licence to drive in Iceland for up to 30 days. If you still have a paper driving licence, you may need to update it to a photocard licence or get the 1968 version of the international driving permit (IDP) as well.  
Hire car companies often have stricter requirements for their customers, such as a year of driving experience, a higher minimum age and holding an IDP. 
If you bring your own car, check if you need a UK sticker to drive it outside the UK. 
Driving conditions
Driving in Iceland can be very different to the UK. Speed limits are low and the distances between towns are far greater.
Some main routes can be gravel or dirt tracks. Roads can be narrower than you might be familiar with. Some routes, including bridges are only a single lane with passing areas. On gravel and loose surfaces, reduce your speed.
Check road and weather advice from the Icelandic Road Administration. They also have information on off-road driving, which is strictly controlled.
Many highland tracks are only open for a short part of the summer. In the highlands you should use a 4-wheel drive vehicle. Drive slowly (5 to 10 kilometres per hour) when you cross rivers. River levels can change quickly, even within the same day.
The weather can change quickly and can cause damage to rental cars that is not covered by insurance. Strong winds are common and can throw sand or ash up, damaging paintwork. British tourists have had to pay large amounts of money to repair damage to hire cars caused by sand and ash.
Breakdown recovery costs, especially in remote areas, can be high.
Extreme weather and natural disasters
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards. 
Volcanic eruptions and earthquakes
Volcanic eruptions and earthquakes are common in Iceland.
Recently there has been a series of volcanic eruptions on the Reykjanes peninsula in south-west Iceland, the latest on 29 May. These have affected the town of Grindavik and the area to the north of it. Icelandic authorities advise that you stay away from this area. All roads to Grindavik and the surrounding area are closed.
The likelihood of further eruptions in this location remains high. Check local media for updates and follow the Iceland authorities’ advice on travel to the area.
Volcanic activity is closely monitored for any signs of unrest in Iceland’s 32 active systems. Infrastructure is robustly designed, but not all events can be anticipated and can pose risks to your travel plans such as:
travel delays and cancellations
poisonous volcanic gases
rock falls and landslides
sudden and large flooding
You should regularly check for alerts and advice from:
the Icelandic tourist board
Icelandic Met Office
Safe Travel Iceland
Almannavarnir Facebook page
These organisations have further information on volcanic eruptions and earthquakes in Iceland:
Icelandic Department of Civil Protection and Emergency Management – includes health and safety advice
Icelandic Road and Coastal Administration
Institute of Earth Sciences
London Volcanic Ash Advisory Centre
Icelandic National Broadcasting Service
Arctic travel
Iceland is in the Arctic Circle: emergency medical assistance and search and rescue may be limited in some areas. See Arctic travel safety advice.
