Iceland has put measures in place to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
For information on how to return to the UK from Iceland, see Return to the UK
Moving around in Iceland
For information on entering Iceland, see Entry Requirements
Wide ranging restrictions are in place.
These include, but are not limited to, self-isolation on arrival, social distancing, bans on gatherings over certain numbers, closure of bars, nightclubs, swimming pools and gyms.
Detailed and up to date information on the full range of restrictions can be found at Covid.is (available in English).
You should also regularly monitor Government announcements for any rapid changes at www.government.is/.
Health
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Iceland
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Iceland, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
