Coronavirus: stay up to date
This page will be updated with country-specific information for travellers to Iceland. Sign up for email alerts.
See our coronavirus travel advice for guidance on travel during the COVID-19 pandemic, including on cruise ship travel.
The Icelandic authorities have introduced a number of precautionary measures in response to the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. See Health
The Icelandic authorities have announced that from 19 March all Icelandic nationals and residents returning from any country abroad must self-isolate for 14 days on arrival. For now this restriction does not apply to non-residents. You can find further information from the Icelandic authorities at Covid19.is (available in English).
We are advising British people against all but essential travel worldwide due to unprecedented international border closures and other restrictions. As of 17 March airlines are still operating between Iceland and the UK. However, you should keep up to date with your flight operator for any changes to their scheduled service. If you decide to leave Iceland earlier than intended, then contact your airline or travel company and your insurance provider as soon as you are able.
Approximately 298,000 British nationals visited Iceland through Keflavik airport in 2018. Most visits are trouble-free.
The rules for travel to EU countries, Iceland, Liechtenstein and Switzerland will stay the same until 31 December 2020. This page will be updated with country-specific information for travellers to Iceland as things change. Sign up for email alerts and view the latest updates for UK nationals travelling to and living in Europe.
If you’re living in or moving to Iceland, read the Living in Iceland guide in addition to this travel advice.
Iceland is volcanically and seismically active. You should monitor the Icelandic Met Office website for the latest updates and follow the advice of the local authorities. In case of an emergency, the Department of Civil Protection and Emergency Management in Iceland will send out text messages to anyone located in the vicinity. See Natural disasters
Weather conditions can also be severe and change rapidly. In order to receive the latest updates and alerts, you should monitor the Safe Travel website, Icelandic Road and Coastal Administration website and Icelandic Met Office reports.
If you need to contact the emergency services, call 112.
If you’re travelling around Iceland, download the 112 Iceland app and leave your travel plans with Safe Travel in case you need assistance from the Icelandic emergency services. Keep mobile phones switched on and always follow the advice of the local authorities.
Terrorist attacks in Iceland can’t be ruled out. See Terrorism
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.
Take out comprehensive travel and medical insurance before you travel.
