Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Turkmenistan on the TravelHealthPro website.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
Commercial flights to and from Turkmenistan are suspended. Occasional, tightly controlled, charter flights are the only means of entering or leaving the country by air.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Turkmenistan.
Travel in Turkmenistan
There are restrictions on road travel within Turkmenistan. All road borders are closed. The International Seaport of Turkmenistan at Turkmenbashi is closed to passenger traffic.
Traffic police check points have been established around major population centres, including Ashgabat, and road users may be subject to temperature screening.
Chartered flights which are able to enter/leave Turkmenistan are currently arriving and departing from Turkmenabat, approximately 620kms from the capital, Ashgabat.
Domestic flights remain operational, but with a reduced service. Passengers are subject to temperature checks.
Rail services are suspended.
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British Embassy on +993 12 36 34 62/64.
Accommodation
Hotels remain open with no restrictive measures in place.
Public spaces and services
Recreational facilities, non-essential shops, bars and restaurants, entertainment facilities, sports, spa and beauty facilities, and mosques are closed to the public.
It is compulsory to wear a facemask when in public.
Healthcare in Turkmenistan
If you think you have COVID-19 symptoms, you should consult your visa sponsor (e.g. your employer) in the first instance.
For foreign nationals there is no compulsory testing following quarantine, although it is possible to request further testing.
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Turkmenistan.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Turkmenistan
As further information is available about the national vaccination programme, this page will be updated. Sign up to get email notifications.
The Government of Turkmenistan have stated that UK nationals who intend to remain resident in Turkmenistan for more than six months and who wish to receive a COVID-19 vaccination may be able to receive a vaccination from the Turkmenistan state medical system. Please write to ukembassy.ashgabat@fcdo.gov.uk if you require further information.
The Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) is the UK authority responsible for assessing the safety, quality and efficacy of vaccines. It has authorised the Pfizer/BioNTech, Oxford/AstraZeneca and Moderna vaccines for temporary supply and use in the UK. Find out more about MHRA approval for these vaccines.
British nationals living overseas should seek medical advice from their local healthcare provider in the country where they reside. Information about vaccines used in other national programmes, including regulatory status, should be available from the local authorities. This list of Stringent Regulatory Authorities recognised by the World Health Organisation may also be a useful source of additional information. Find out more information about the COVID-19 vaccines on the World Health Organization COVID-19 vaccines page.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements.
Further information
If you need urgent consular assistance, you should contact your local British embassy, high commission or consulate.
