Coronavirus guidance is being updated.
Read the Prime Minister’s statement for the latest information.

Flights
There are currently no commercial options available to return to the UK. The Turkmen authorities have extended the suspension of all commercial passenger flights in to and out of Turkmenistan until at least 20 July. If you are booked on to a flight which has been cancelled you should contact the airline or your travel agent.
If you cannot leave Turkmenistan at this time, you should see Staying during coronavirus.
The Embassy cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone. This page will be updated when departure options become available. To get the latest information, sign up for travel advice email alerts.
Airlines flying to the UK from regional hubs are liable to cancel or suspend flights at short notice. You should monitor the airlines’ information channels for updates.
Future travel options
The UK government is working closely with airlines, the Turkmen authorities and other governments to make sure options are available for you to return to the UK as soon as possible.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK.
For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Your journey home: re-entering the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK. You:
need to provide your journey and contact details up to 48 hours before you’re due to arrive in the UK
are not allowed to leave the place you’re staying for the first 14 days you’re in the UK except in very limited situations (known as ‘self-isolating’)
See also the list of people who are exempt from the border rules.
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) also provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
