

Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Turkmenistan
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Turkmenistan, attacks cannot be ruled out.
Border restrictions
Turkmen land border crossings can be subject to occasional and unannounced closures. The borders with Afghanistan and Iran are particularly sensitive, with access to areas near these borders being tightly restricted.
Laws and cultural differences
Personal ID
Police sometimes carry out checks of identity documents. Always carry your passport on you. Keep a copy of the photo page of your passport and your letter of invitation in a safe place.
Crime  
Whilst the crime rate is low, you should exercise a similar level of caution as you would in the UK.
Ramadan
Ramadan is a holy month for Muslims. The dates vary by year and country. Cafés and restaurants may amend their menus and be busy around fast-breaking (‘Iftar’). Areas around mosques are also likely to be busy around prayer times. Take particular care not to offend religious sensitivities at this time.
Alcohol laws and bans
It is illegal to drink alcohol in any communal spaces, including:
parks or public squares
forests or beaches
train stations, airports or sea ports
underpasses
government offices
If you’re caught drinking alcohol in these places you can get a fine of 100 manats.
Smoking and e-cigarette bans
It is illegal to smoke outside or in any communal spaces unless they contain a designated smoking area.
Illegal drugs and prison sentences
If you’re found guilty of possession or use of illegal drugs, you could face a lengthy prison sentence in very basic conditions.
Taking photos in secure areas
It is illegal to take pictures of certain buildings. Check before taking photos of or near airports, military infrastructure, police stations, government buildings or embassies. The guards at the presidential palace may tell you not to take photos of it.
The Turkmen can be sensitive about having their picture taken without their consent.
Internet and mobile network
Internet connections outside the larger hotels can be unreliable. Many social media apps and websites are blocked, including YouTube, X, Facebook and WhatsApp. Access to Yahoo, Gmail and Hotmail is often difficult. VPNs are illegal in Turkmenistan and are usually blocked as soon as the authorities identify them.
There is a single state-owned mobile telephone provider, Altyn Asyr, which uses the TM CELL brand. Altyn Asyr does not provide a roaming service and the quality of the network is low.
Comments, including content posted on social media, interpreted as being negative about Turkmenistan’s political system and traditions are taken very seriously and may constitute an offence. Many Turkmen are uncomfortable discussing politics.
It is illegal to take pictures of certain buildings. Ask before taking pictures of anything of possible military or security interest, including government buildings and food markets.
Relationships with Turkmens
The Turkmen authorities sometimes prosecute Turkmen women if they start a sexual relationship with a foreign man, who may be fined and deported.
LGBT+ travellers
Male same-sex sexual activity is illegal, and punishable by a prison sentence. Same-sex relationships generally meet with disapproval in Turkmen society. Avoid showing affection in public.
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Transport risks
Road travel
If you are planning to drive a hire car or a UK vehicle, see information on driving abroad.
You’ll need to have both the 1968 version of the international driving permit (IDP) and your UK driving licence with you in the car. You cannot buy an IDP outside the UK, so get one before you travel.
Driving standards are poor. Road travel at night outside cities is particularly dangerous because of the condition of the roads. There is a 60km/h speed limit in much of Ashgabat, enforced by both static speed cameras and police with mobile speed cameras. There are no signs warning of speed cameras.
Taxis
Licensed taxis are clearly identified by white and green markings. Avoid unlicensed taxis.
Although taxis have meters, drivers will usually charge foreign nationals around 20 manat for a journey within the city centre. They might ask for payment in US dollars, but this is illegal. Most taxi drivers do not speak much English.
Extreme weather and natural disasters
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards.
Earthquakes
Turkmenistan is in an active seismic zone. There are regular tremors and there have been strong earthquakes.
The US Federal Emergency Management Agency has advice about what to do before, during and after an earthquake.
