This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Turkmenistan as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Turkmenistan to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Turkmenistan
There are restrictions on road travel within Turkmenistan. All road borders are closed. The International Seaport of Turkmenistan at Turkmenbashi is closed to passenger traffic. Traffic police check points have been established around major population centres, including Ashgabat, and road users may be subject to temperature screening.
Internal air and rail passengers may also be subject to temperature checks.
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British Embassy on +993 12 36 34 62/64.
Health
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Turkmenistan.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Turkmenistan, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, you should contact your local British embassy, high commission or consulate.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
