All commercial passenger flights operating to and from Istanbul Ataturk Airport are due to be transferred to the new Istanbul Airport between 5 to 7 April 2019. During the transition period there will be a short period of time where no flights will operate from either airport, and thereafter restrictions of the frequency airlines can operate at, until the transfer is completed. Passengers travelling via Istanbul may be affected by delays and cancellations during the transition period and for a limited period after the transfer, and should contact their airline for further information. Once the transfer is completed, the IATA airport code IST will apply to Istanbul Airport and Istanbul Ataturk will acquire IATA airport code ISL.
The European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) has suspended Turkmenistan Airlines flights to and from the EU pending confirmation that it meets international air safety standards. If you have an existing booking, you should contact Turkmenistan Airlines to seek further information on alternative arrangements or contact:
Heathrow: 020 8577 2211
Birmingham: Azzurra Premiere Handling
Ashgabat: 24 hour customer support line +993 12 39-17-47
More information for affected UK passengers is available on the Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) website.
Additional charges of up US$150 are being levied at the land and sea borders for vehicles. This is additional to the visa fee. The charges are payable in cash in US dollars on entry.
The border between Turkmenistan and Kazakhstan is currently closed to traffic. You’re advised not to try to cross the road border but to seek alternative routes, such as via Uzbekistan, until further notice.
In 2017 a new “tourism tax” was introduced. All foreign visitors, with the exception of accredited diplomats, are charged 2 US dollars for each day of their stay in Turkmenistan. If you’re staying in a hotel, this tax will be included as a separate item on your bill.
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Turkmenistan, attacks can’t be ruled out. See Terrorism
You should carry identification at all times. The police often carry out checks.
Visa requirements are strict. You should contact the Turkmen Embassy in London well in advance of travel. If you are staying for more than 3 days, you will also need to register with the State Migration Service. Don’t overstay your visa. See Entry Requirements
If you need to contact the emergency services, call 01 (from landline) or 001 (from mobile) for fire, 02 (from landline) 002 (from mobile) for police, and 03 (from landline) 003 (from mobile) for an ambulance.
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.
Take out comprehensive travel and medical insurance before you travel.
