Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Gibraltar on the TravelHealthPro website.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing the spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Gibraltar.
Returning to the UK
Travelling from and returning to the UK
Check what you must do to travel abroad and return to England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
If you plan to pass through another country to return to the UK, check the travel advice for the country you’re transiting.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Public places and services
There are currently no COVID-19 restrictions in Gibraltar, apart from the requirement to wear masks in Gibraltar Health Authority facilities including Elderly Residential Services and private medical and health providers.
Health
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Gibraltar.
Testing positive for COVID-19 while in Gibraltar
If you have symptoms of COVID-19 while in Gibraltar, you must self-isolate and should not visit any friends or relatives, nor should you permit anyone to visit you until you have been tested and are negative for the virus.
If you develop symptoms or feel unwell call the Gibraltar COVID-19 Health and Care Information Helpline 111 immediately even if you have already been swabbed. If calling from an international number, you must dial (+350) 2007 2266 and ask to be transferred to 111. The Public Health Gibraltar website provides additional information and advice, including an online assessment. The Health Protection Team are available to offer health advice to the public, including those who are most vulnerable. Their contact number is (+350) 2225 8707 .
If you are tested for COVID-19 and are positive you must not travel. If you use a self-testing kit from a pharmacy and the result is positive you should dial 111 . You must follow local rules and guidance for positive COVID-19 cases. The Gibraltar Health Authority ask those that test either positive or negative to complete an online notification form. You will be required to quarantine at your hotel / self-catered accommodation for up to 10 days after testing positive (however on day 6 and 7, you can self-test using a lateral flow test and if you test negative on both days, you can come out of isolation).
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Gibraltar
The UK Government has been supplying vaccines to the people of the UK’s Overseas Territories. The Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) is the UK authority responsible for assessing the safety, quality and efficacy of vaccines. MHRA has temporarily authorised under Regulation 174 of Human Medicines Regulations 2012, the Pfizer/BioNTech and Astra Zeneca COVID-19 vaccine for supply in the UK, Crown Dependencies and Overseas Territories for use in Gibraltar.
British nationals resident in Gibraltar can obtain a vaccination locally. If you have not already been contacted and wish to be vaccinated, you should contact the Gibraltar Health Authority.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
