This page has information on travelling to Gibraltar. Check what you must do to return to the UK.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport from the UK, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Gibraltar set and enforce entry rules.
All travellers
Entry requirements to Gibraltar depend on whether you are fully vaccinated or not, and whether the countries you have visited in the 10 days prior to your arrival are on the red list.
See the Government of Gibraltar Technical Notice which sets out entry requirements in full.
Additionally, the official Gibraltar Tourist Board website lists the countries which are included in the red list, and provides comprehensive in-formation about the requirements in respect of COVID-19 for travelling to Gibraltar, including information on how to book your COVID-19 tests before you arrive. The website also provides information for travellers entering by sea, and crossing the land border into Gibraltar.
If you have been to a country or territory on the red list within the past 10 days, you are not permitted to enter Gibraltar, unless you meet one of the specified exemption categories. The exemption categories are listed in the Government of Gibraltar Technical Notice.
If you meet the red list exemption categories to enter Gibraltar by air and you are fully vaccinated, you must upload your vaccination certificate on the Passenger Locator Form. You must have a pre-departure COVID-19 test taken no more than 48 hours before your flight to Gibraltar. You are required to book a PCR test before arriving in Gibraltar to be taken by Day 2 following your arrival (your arrival date counts as Day 0). You are required to self-isolate immediately on arrival, until you have received a negative result for your Day 2 PCR test. You will be required to take another PCR test on Day 8.
If you meet the red list exemption categories to enter Gibraltar by air and you are unvaccinated, you must have a pre-departure COVID-19 test, taken no more than 48 hours before your flight to Gibraltar. You are required to book PCR tests before arriving in Gibraltar, to be taken on the day of your arrival (Day 0) and on Day 10. You must self-isolate immediately upon arrival and remain in self-isolation until the second test (on Day 10) is conducted and you are advised that the self-isolation is no longer required. If you are staying in a hotel, you must remain in your room and not use any of the public areas.
In all instances you must complete a Passenger Locator Form. Details of suitable pre-flight COVID-19 tests are covered in Annex B of the Government of Gibraltar Technical Notice.
If you’re fully vaccinated
If you’re fully vaccinated and have not been in a country or territory on the red list in the 10 days preceding your arrival in Gibraltar by air, you must upload your vaccination certificate on the Passenger Locator Form. You must book a COVID-19 lateral flow test before arriving in Gibraltar. This test must be taken immediately on arrival in Gibraltar and you must self-isolate until you have received a negative result.
The Government of Gibraltar Technical Notice sets out what qualifies as fully vaccinated.
Proof of vaccination status
Gibraltar will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 recovery and vaccination record and proof of COVID-19 vaccination issued in the Crown Dependencies. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
If you’re not fully vaccinated
If you are unvaccinated and have not been in a country or territory on the red list in the 10 days before arrival, you must have a pre-departure COVID-19 lateral flow test taken no more than 48 hours before your flight to Gibraltar. Before you travel to Gibraltar you must also book a COVID-19 lateral flow test. This test must be taken immediately on arrival in Gibraltar and you must self-isolate until you have received a negative result.
Children and young people
All air passengers regardless of age need to complete a Passenger Locator Form. For children, the Passenger Locator Form should be completed by a responsible adult.
Children under 12 years do not need to take a COVID-19 test before travelling (under 8 years if the child has been to a country or territory in the Red List in the 10 days preceding their arrival in Gibraltar).
Children travelling from a non-Red List country who are aged 12 or over but under the age of 17 who have received a single dose of the vaccine are also exempt from taking a pre-departure COVID-19 test. Proof of the child’s vaccination status must be uploaded on the Passenger Locator Form.
Unvaccinated children aged between 12 and 18 must take a COVID-19 test before travelling. Proof of the child’s negative test result must be shown by an adult travelling with the child upon arrival in Gibraltar.
If you’re transiting through Gibraltar
The Gibraltar-Spain border is a busy external Schengen Border and Gibraltar is outside the customs union. There are rules on taking food and drink into the EU, which apply when crossing the border from Gibraltar to Spain. See the Spain travel advice page for details.
Entry restrictions continue to apply for travel to Spain. You should refer to the Spain travel advice page for the latest entry requirements.
You can find up to date information on waiting times at the border on the Gibraltar Borders & Coastguard Agency website.
Information on the queue is also available by calling +(350) 200 42777, or checking the Gibraltar Frontier website and/or Twitter hashtag #GibFrontier.
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
Passport validity
You must hold a valid passport to enter Gibraltar. Your passport must be valid for the proposed duration of your stay. No additional period of validity beyond this is required.
Visas
British nationals don’t need a visa to enter Gibraltar.
For further information on entry requirements, check the website of HM Government of Gibraltar.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents are accepted for entry, airside transit and exit from Gibraltar.
Customs
Gibraltar is not part of the EU Common Customs Territory. The amount of some goods (e.g. tobacco and alcohol) that you can take into and out of Gibraltar is limited.
Check the Gibraltar Customs website for more information on duty free allowances when arriving in Gibraltar.
If you regularly enter or return to Gibraltar (more than once per calendar month), you are not entitled to duty free imports.
If you travel to Spain from Gibraltar, you should declare any duty free goods to Spanish customs officers.
If you are returning directly to the UK from Gibraltar, see information on bringing goods into the UK.
Returning to the UK
Check what you must do to return to the UK.
