The Government of Gibraltar has introduced measures in light of the Covid-19 virus, including restrictions for travellers returning from certain countries. Detailed information is in this Government of Gibraltar press release.
At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you should contact HM Customs Gibraltar.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Coronavirus
There is an ongoing outbreak of coronavirus (COVID-19) in China, some other countries in the region and elsewhere. The Gibraltarian authorities have introduced regulations and precautionary measures, including restrictions for travellers returning from certain coronavirus affected countries.
The list of at-risk countries covered by the regulations, and full details on travel restrictions is available in the Government of Gibraltar press release. Transit through any of the listed countries is also covered by the regulations.
If you are currently in one of the at-risk countries you should report, as soon as possible, and ahead of your return to Gibraltar, using the email address coronavirus@gha.gi, with the subject line: self-isolation. You will be contacted by a Public Health professional who will advise you on the best way to protect yourself and others.
All travellers arriving from an at-risk country have a legal duty upon return to Gibraltar to report to a Borders and Coastguard Officer, if arriving by land or air, or an Officer of the Gibraltar Port Authority, if entering by sea. The regulations will be imposed if there is a failure to co-operate.
If you have already returned to Gibraltar from any of the at-risk countries in the last 14 days, even if you do not have coronavirus symptoms, you should immediately:
Call 111 to declare your recent travel
Self-isolate for a minimum of 14 days from the date of your departure
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
Local medical care
Most medical problems can be dealt with locally. The main hospital is St Bernard’s at Europort (telephone: +350 200 79700).
If you’re a British national living in the UK, you can get emergency treatment in Gibraltar by presenting your British passport. However, as some emergency treatment may require transfer to Spain, you should get a European Health Insurance Card (EHIC) before you travel. The EHIC is not a substitute for medical and travel insurance, but entitles you to emergency medical treatment on the same terms as Spanish nationals. You will not be covered for medical repatriation, on-going medical treatment or non-urgent treatment.
