Gibraltar has put measures in place to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19). For information on how to return to the UK from Gibraltar, see Return to the UK
Moving around in Gibraltar
A social lockdown came into effect in Gibraltar on Tuesday 24 March 2020 to slow the spread of COVID-19. However the lockdown restrictions are now in the process of being relaxed by the Government of Gibraltar, via a six-phased process named “Unlock the Rock” which commenced on 2 May 2020. Full details of the plans to lift lockdown restrictions can be found in this Government of Gibraltar press release.
On Friday 22 May 2020, the regulations affecting the freedom of movement of all citizens came to an end, and people are now permitted to leave their home without restriction - although the advice of the Government of Gibraltar remains for people to stay at home, and if they do go out, to maintain social distancing. From Monday 1 June 2020, restaurants and cafes can open with reduced capacity. From Monday 22 June, bars can open, with some restrictions.
Some restrictions on freedom of association (gatherings) imposed by the Government of Gibraltar as part of the social lockdown remain in place. Visiting friends and relatives in their homes or public places is permitted but gatherings must be kept below twelve persons, with certain specified exceptions. See the Government of Gibraltar press release for details.
In the event that a person in Gibraltar has any of the symptoms of COVID-19, they have an obligation to self-isolate and should neither visit a friend or relative nor should they permit anyone to visit them until they have been tested and are negative for the virus.
Health
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Gibraltar.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
