Travel to Gibraltar is subject to entry restrictions
Only specified categories of people are currently permitted to enter Gibraltar by air – these include registered Gibraltarians, residents of Gibraltar, Spanish nationals and residents in transit to Spain, and those working in Gibraltar. Full details of all those eligible to enter Gibraltar may be found in the Technical Notice issued by the Government of Gibraltar. In addition, travellers must present proof of a negative result from a PCR test taken within 72 hours prior to arrival in Gibraltar, or take a fast test on arrival at Gibraltar Airport.
From 30 March, passenger travel between the UK and Spain resumed, however entry restrictions and testing requirements remain in force. Only EU and Schengen state citizens, those who are legally resident in EU and associated Schengen states, or those who can demonstrate through documentary evidence an essential need to enter Spain, will be allowed to enter the country. These restrictions will also apply for entry to Spain through the Gibraltar border. See the ‘Permitted reasons to enter Spain after 30 March 2021’ section on the Entry requirements page of Travel Advice to Spain for details.
See Entry requirements for full details before you plan to travel.
Preparing for your return journey to the UK
If you’re returning to the UK from overseas, you will need to:
provide your journey and contact details before you travel
If you are arriving in the [UK] from Gibraltar on or after 4am on 18 January you will need to self-isolate on your arrival, unless you have a valid exemption. Check the latest guidance for England, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales.
If your return journey to the UK transits another country, you should check whether it is subject to a travel ban or any other additional requirements. If so, contact your travel provider.
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
If you’re planning travel to Gibraltar, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCDO’s guidance on foreign travel insurance.
For information about COVID-19 vaccines, see the Coronavirus page.
Most visits to Gibraltar are trouble-free. Violence and street crime are rare. See Crime
Gibraltar is a British Overseas Territory. There’s no formal British consular representation in Gibraltar and the local authorities deal with all requests for consular assistance. See Consular assistance
The Government of Gibraltar has issued some press releases with guidance on Brexit.
You must hold a valid passport to enter Gibraltar. See Passport validity
Gibraltar is not part of the EU Common Customs Territory. The amount of goods (e.g. tobacco and alcohol) that you can take into and out of Gibraltar is more limited than for visits between the UK and other EU countries. See Customs
Terrorist attacks in Gibraltar can’t be ruled out. See Terrorism
If you need to contact the emergency services call 199 (police) or 190 (ambulance and fire).
