Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Sierra Leone on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
Freetown International Airport is open. Commercial flights have resumed although at a reduced schedule. Check with your travel company or airline for the latest information.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Sierra Leone.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements. You should contact local authorities for information on testing facilities. Tests can be booked through the Government of Sierra Leone’s travel portal.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Sierra Leone
There is a curfew on all movement from 11pm to 5am. Bars and restaurants are required to close at 9pm.
It is now compulsory to wear a mask when in a vehicle. This policy is being enforced by the Sierra Leone authorities. If you are found without a mask you may face a fine.
Accommodation
Hotels are open.
Public spaces and services
Large public gatherings are still limited, and events of over 100 people (e.g. concerts, sporting events) are prohibited.
Places of worship, churches and mosques have re-opened for worship but there are restrictions on numbers. Hand washing and social distancing is enforced.
Restaurants and bars must close at 9pm.
People are strongly advised to wash their hands, use hand sanitiser and avoid shaking-hands.
People are advised to keep to strict social distancing.
Healthcare in Sierra Leone
If you think you have COVID-19 symptoms you should call the Government of Sierra Leone emergency line on 117. Treatment for coronavirus cases and mandatory quarantine for suspected cases are both carried out at Government of Sierra Leone facilities. The Ministry of Health website has additional information.
Local medical care
Hospitals and medical facilities throughout Sierra Leone are limited. Medical supplies are unreliable and availability limited. There is no effective public or commercial accident and emergency or ambulance service in the country. You should carry basic medical supplies. Ensure you have adequate supplies of prescription medication, bearing in mind the risk of delays due to flight cancellations. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad, medical evacuation and repatriation.
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Sierra Leone
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Sierra Leone
Wherever possible British nationals should aim to be vaccinated in the country where they live. As further information is available about the national vaccination programme, this page will be updated. Sign up to get email notifications.
Sierra Leone’s COVID-19 vaccination programme started on 15 March. A number of walk in vaccination centres are open throughout the country. The Sierra Leonean authorities have advised that the programme extends to all residents in Sierra Leone. Priority is given to “front line workers, people over 60 years of age, people with health conditions, and public officials”.
The Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) is the UK authority responsible for assessing the safety, quality and efficacy of vaccines. It has authorised the Pfizer/BioNTech, Oxford/AstraZeneca and Moderna vaccines for temporary supply and use in the UK. Find out more about MHRA approval for these vaccines.
British nationals living overseas should seek medical advice from their local healthcare provider in the country where they reside. Information about vaccines used in other national programmes, including regulatory status, should be available from the local authorities. This list of Stringent Regulatory Authorities recognised by the World Health Organisation may also be a useful source of additional information. Find out more information about the COVID-19 vaccines on the World Health Organization COVID-19 vaccines page.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
