This page has information on travelling to Sierra Leone. Check what you must do to return to the UK.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport from the UK, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Sierra Leone set and enforce entry rules.
All travellers
All travellers should familiarise themselves with the entry rules for Sierra Leone before travel.
If you’re fully vaccinated
Vaccinated passengers are required to have both a COVID-19 PCR and RDT test (in addition to the negative test result required to get authorisation to travel to Sierra Leone).
If you test negative for the RDT test, you’ll be allowed to leave the airport and required to quarantine at home, where you must observe public health protocols while you wait for the result of your PCR test (which is expected to take no more than 48 hours).
If you test positive for the RDT test, you’ll be required to quarantine at a hotel in Lungi at your own expense while you wait for the result of your PCR test. The PCR result supersedes the RDT result. If you test positive for the PCR test result, you’ll be contacted by Sierra Leonean health authorities and required to self-isolate. Passengers sitting in close proximity to a positive case on the flight will be treated as a primary contact and be required to self-isolate until you return a negative PCR COVID-19 test. Social distancing and the use of facemasks is mandatory at Freetown Lungi International airport.
Proof of vaccination status
Sierra Leone will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 recovery and vaccination record and proof of COVID-19 vaccination issued in the Crown Dependencies. Your final vaccine dose must have been administered at least 14 days prior to travel. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
To be considered fully-vaccinated you must:
have had both doses of a two-dose COVID-19 vaccine and the second dose must have been received at least two weeks prior to arriving in Sierra Leone, or
have had one-dose of the Johnson and Johnson COVID-19 vaccine at least two weeks prior to arriving in Sierra Leone.
If you’re not fully vaccinated
Unvaccinated passengers are required to have both a COVID-19 PCR and RDT test (in addition to the negative test result required to get authorisation to travel to Sierra Leone).
If you test negative for the RDT test, you’ll be allowed to leave the airport and required to undergo mandatory quarantine at a NaCOVERC hotel at your own cost until you have proof of a negative PCR result. The result of your PCR test are expected to take no more than 48 hours.
If you test positive for the RDT test, you’ll be required to quarantine at a hotel in Lungi at your own expense while you wait for the result of your PCR test. The PCR result supersedes the RDT result. If you test positive for the PCR test result, you’ll be contacted by Sierra Leonean health authorities and required to self-isolate. Passengers sitting in close proximity to a positive case on the flight will be treated as a primary contact and be required to self-isolate until you return a negative PCR COVID-19 test. Social distancing and the use of facemasks is mandatory at Freetown Lungi International airport.
If you’ve had COVID-19 in the past year
Entry requirements for Sierra Leone are the same for all travellers, regardless of whether you have tested positive for COVID-19 in the past year.
Children and young people
There are no specific requirements for children and young people.
If you’re transiting through Sierra Leone
There are no specific requirements for transiting through Sierra Leone.
Exemptions
There are no exemptions to Sierra Leone’s entry requirements.
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
Passport validity
If you are visiting Sierra Leone, your passport should be valid for a minimum period of 6 months from the time of your visa application.
Contact your travel provider or embassy of the country you are visiting if you think that your passport does not meet both these requirements. Renew your passport if you need to.
Visas
You will need a visa to enter Sierra Leone.
Visitors from the UK can get a visa on arrival in Sierra Leone for US$80, which must be paid in cash in US dollars. However, if you’re travelling to Sierra Leone for a purpose other than tourism, a visit or business, you will need to get a visa before you travel. Contact the Sierra Leonean High Commission in London for details.
The Sierra Leone High Commission in London sometimes issues Emergency Travel Certificates to Sierra Leoneans resident in the UK and those with dual British/Sierra Leone nationality. These documents are not valid for return travel to the UK. Sierra Leone nationals require a visa for the UK, which can only be issued in a full passport.
Before travelling Sierra Leone, you must get authorisation from the Government of Sierra Leone through the online portal.
To get authorisation you must have:
proof of a negative PCR COVID-19 test result no more than 72 hours before the departure time of your flight to Sierra Leone;
you should not use the NHS testing service to get a test in order to facilitate your travel to another country. You should arrange to take a private test;
a pre-departure public health passenger locator form;
and proof of payment for on arrival COVID-19 tests paid for through the portal
A health locator form with contact details must also be completed.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are not valid for entry into Sierra Leone. ETDs are accepted for airside transit and exit from Sierra Leone.
Returning to the UK
Before departure from Sierra Leone, you’ll need to pay for and take a PCR COVID-19 test through the portal within 72 hours of your departure. Certificates confirming the test result will be emailed to you. You’ll need to provide this certificate confirming your test result at check-in. If you test positive, you’ll not be allowed to travel and you’ll need to follow public health protocols for isolation and contact tracing.
If your stay in Sierra Leone is for 5 days or less, you are exempt from needing a further test ahead of departure. You’re exempt from the COVID-19 test on departure if you arrived in Sierra Leone fewer than 5 days before departing. Children under two years of age are also exempt.
Check what you must do to return to the UK.
