At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Coronavirus
The Sierra Leone authorities have introduced a number of precautionary measures in response to the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic, including a measure as of 16 March:: Travellers arriving at any Port of Entry in Sierra Leone with any of the following signs and symptoms will be taken into an isolation facility for investigation and management:
• Fever above 37.5 °C
• Persistent cough
• Difficulty breathing
Travellers from countries with less than 50 confirmed cases of coronavirus -will be documented and followed up by designated surveillance officers/contact tracers at home for a period of 14 days to ensure compliance with surveillance procedures.
Travellers arriving from destinations with 50 or more confirmed cases of coronavirus at any point in time will have to undergo quarantine for 14 days.
You should comply with additional screening measures put in place by the authorities on arrival.
Keep up to date with information from your tour operator, transport or accommodation provider on the impact on any existing travel plans.
If you need further information about entry requirements, contact the local immigration authorities or the nearest Sierra Leone high commission. You should also check with your airline or travel company for the latest information.
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
Health risks
The World Health Organisation declared Sierra Leone Ebola transmission free in March 2016.
If you’re concerned that you might have been exposed to Ebola, or are showing symptoms, you should seek immediate medical advice. If you’re in the UK call NHS on 111. You should also follow the health advice on the NHS Choices website.
If you travel to Sierra Leone, especially whilst on business, you should stay in contact with your employer or host organisation about the support that they can provide to you while you’re in the country, and if you should wish to leave.
Rabies, Lassa fever, water-borne diseases, malaria and other tropical diseases are common to Sierra Leone. In November 2019, an outbreak of Lassa fever was reported in Tonkolili region of Sierra Leone. Check the TravelHealthPro website for more information.
Cholera is endemic in Sierra Leone with outbreaks, particularly during the rainy season, in areas where there is poor sanitation. You should drink or use only boiled or bottled water and avoid ice in drinks.
In the 2016 Report on the Global AIDS Epidemic the UNAIDS/WHO Working Group estimated that around 67,000 people in Sierra Leone were living with HIV. You should exercise precautions to avoid exposure to HIV/AIDS.
