Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

There are currently no commercial options available to return to the UK from Sierra Leone. The government of Sierra Leone has announced that all flights scheduled to and from Freetown International Airport have been suspended and all international borders closed until further notice. There is an exemption for emergency flights.
UK special flight
The UK will operate a special flight from Freetown International Airport on Wednesday 22 April at 6:55pm for British tourists, short term visitors and their direct dependants to return to the UK.
Passengers travelling from Freetown must report to the Sea Coach terminal in Aberdeen between midday and 3pm on 22 April.
the flight costs £600 per person
to be eligible to take this flight, you must be normally resident in the UK. Eligibility will be checked before tickets are issued
If you wish to travel, register to book tickets on the CTM website as soon as possible. You will need to have completed your booking by midday on 20 April.
If you have difficulty booking online, you can text CTM on +44 786-009-3013 or call +232(0) 77677677.
Tickets will not be on sale at the airport. Do not travel to the airport without a confirmed ticket.
To book, you will need:
a valid passport and be able to meet the entry requirements of the UK
full passport and contact details for each traveller you are registering
your UK home address and postcode
your means of payment, such as credit or debit card details
If you cannot pay the cost of the ticket, send an SMS text message containing ONLY your full name to +44 786-009-3013 and someone from the CTM team will get in touch to assist. If you have exhausted all other options available to you for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan to cover the cost of the ticket. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Travel to the airport
Initial screening and transport to the airport from Freetown will be from the Sea Coach office in Aberdeen, you must arrive between midday and 3pm on 22 April.
You will need to purchase your boat ticket to the airport at a cost of $40.00 US dollars. You will need to be at the Sea Coach office no later than 3pm on 22 April.
The British High Commission will arrange travel permits for the transfer to Lungi.
If you live outside the Freetown Peninsular and have a seat on the flight, you will need to tell us your details as you will require further instructions: email us at FreetownCV19Travel@fco.gov.uk.
Arrival in the UK
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Future travel options
The UK government is working closely with airlines, the Sierra Leonean authorities and other governments to make sure options are available for you to return to the UK as soon as possible.
Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British High Commission in Freetown on Facebook and Twitter (@ukinsierraleone).
If you cannot leave Sierra Leone at this time, you should:
Follow the advice of the local authorities, including local measures to help minimise your risk of exposure to coronavirus. The Freetown City Council website contains useful information on what to do if you have symptoms.
Find accommodation that’s suitable for your needs.
Keep in regular contact with family and friends at home, so they know you are safe and well.
If your visa is close to expiring contact the Immigration Department for advice.
See more information and advice about staying where you are if you cannot return to the UK.
Help and support
If you need consular assistance, you can contact the British High Commission in Freetown on +232(0)76780713.
The High Commission cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone. This page will be updated when departure options become available. To get the latest information, sign up for travel advice email alerts.
Further information
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
