

Terrorism  
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.  
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad. 
Terrorism in Sierra Leone  
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Sierra Leone, attacks cannot be ruled out.  
Political situation  
Following the end of the civil war in 2002, the political situation in Sierra Leone has improved. However, the political situation can change and protests can turn violent. Avoid any political gatherings or demonstrations and follow any curfews or restrictions. Remain vigilant as the security situation could change quickly.  
Crime 
In a small number of incidents, British nationals have been robbed, sometimes at knifepoint. Robberies have taken place in Congo Cross, Wilkinson Road, Lumley Beach, Aberdeen and at beach resorts along the Freetown peninsula and surrounding islands. 
The greatest risk to short-stay visitors is from pickpocketing and mugging in Freetown. If you’re staying for a longer period, make sure you secure your property and employ guards. 
To reduce your personal risk: 
avoid crowds and political demonstrations 
do not display or carry expensive items or large sums of money 
avoid walking alone after dark 
familiarise yourself with your surroundings and stay alert 
arrange your transport in advance 
check your hotel safe is secure 
Public transport drivers and passengers have robbed foreign visitors. Avoid travelling in taxis, minibuses (‘poda-podas’), motorised rickshaws (‘kekes’) or motorbikes (‘ocadas’). 
Reporting crime 
The Sierra Leone Police charge foreign nationals a fee for police reports. They will not issue a crime reference number, which is needed for most insurance claims, without a police report. Do not pay the police directly. Make your payment to the Sierra Leone Police Revenue Generation Fund account at the Bank of Sierra Leone and get a receipt.  
There is no charge if you want to report a crime and do not need a crime reference number.
Laws and cultural differences  
Sierra Leone has a tolerant, multi-religion culture. Always respect local traditions, customs, laws and religions and make sure your actions do not cause offence. 
Personal ID 
Always carry ID such as a passport or residence permit. The police will usually accept a copy of your passport’s photo page and visa stamp.  
Illegal drugs and prison sentences 
Do not become involved with drugs of any kind. There are heavy penalties for drug trafficking, including prison sentences. Prison conditions are hard. 
Diamond smuggling 
There are heavy penalties for diamond smuggling, including prison sentences. 
Taking photographs and filmmaking
Do not take pictures of military installations or any other official government buildings, including prisons and courthouses. There have been instances where individuals have been arrested for doing so.
LGBT+ travellers 
Same-sex relations between men are illegal in Sierra Leone, even if they are consensual. Penalties can include imprisonment. Same-sex relations are not illegal between women. All travellers should exercise caution given the much more conservative culture than UK. 
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers. 
Adoption in Sierra Leone  
The UK does not recognise adoption orders from Sierra Leone. If you are planning to adopt a child in Sierra Leone, make sure you comply with Sierra Leone’s adoption laws. The Ministry of Social Welfare, Gender and Children’s Affairs is responsible for adoptions in Sierra Leone. 
Outdoor activities and adventure tourism  
Water sports and swimming safety  
There are strong ocean currents along the coast in Sierra Leone, and no lifeguards on any beaches. You go into the sea at your own risk.  
Get local advice about sea conditions before you swim or do any water sports. Health and safety standards for water sports operators are usually lower than the UK. Check safety credentials in advance and always ask for a life jacket.  
Beware of hospital waste, including needles, on Lumley Beach.  
See water safety on holiday from the Royal Life Saving Society.
Transport risks  
Road travel  
If you are planning to drive in Sierra Leone, see information on driving abroad. 
You can use a UK photocard driving licence to drive in Sierra Leone for up to one month after you arrive. If you also get the 1949 version of the international driving permit (IDP), you can drive for the length of the IDP’s validity. If you still have a paper driving licence, you may need to update it to a photocard licence.  
If you’re staying longer or living in Sierra Leone, you must get a Sierra Leone driving licence. 
Road conditions and safety 
Serious traffic accidents are common and road travel across the country comes with risks, including: 
poor standards of vehicle maintenance  
people driving erratically, particularly motorbike riders, and ignoring road regulations 
roads with little or no lighting  
vehicles with no lights, and pedestrians and animals on the road 
damage to roads during the rainy season 
high traffic levels, increasing the risk of collisions  
If you are travelling by road, particularly outside the Freetown peninsula, you should:  
plan your journey  
try to complete your travel during daylight hours as risks are higher at night 
travel in convoy if possible 
keep your employer, friends and family updated on your progress 
use well-maintained vehicles 
travel with your doors locked  
be alert to groups stopping your car under false pretences  
British High Commission staff avoid road travel outside the Freetown peninsula at night. They do not use local taxis, minibuses (‘poda-podas’), motorised riskshaw (‘kekes’) or motorbikes (‘ocadas’). 
The mobile network is unreliable, particularly in remote areas. If you do manage to communicate, the emergency response is unreliable. If you have an accident, mobs of people can form around your car. You need a plan for what to do in an emergency. 
Sierra Leone’s borders with Guinea and Liberia 
Sierra Leone is bordered to the north and east by Guinea, and to the south by Liberia. There will be security personnel at these borders. Make sure you have your paperwork ready if you are crossing by land. Stay calm and patient while you wait for your paperwork to be processed and be prepared for disruption and short-notice border closures. 
Checkpoints and unofficial roadblocks 
Officers in uniform control official checkpoints with marked barriers.  
Children sometimes put a rope across the road and ask for a small donation for mending the road. These unofficial roadblocks are most common at the weekend and on the roads to tourist beaches in the Western Area.  
Air travel 
The UK Air Safety List (ASL) lists all known airlines in Sierra Leone that do not meet international safety standards and are banned from operating commercial air services to, from, and within the UK. Check the UK Air Safety List when considering which airlines to fly with. The list is maintained by the Department for Transport, based on advice from the UK Civil Aviation Authority. 
Travel to and from Lungi airport  
Lungi airport is on the far side of a wide estuary across from Freetown. The journey time from Freetown to the airport is around 3 hours by road. There are no car hire facilities at the airport. Contact the British High Commission in Freetown for a list of car hire companies in Freetown.  
British High Commission staff do not travel by road after dark and rarely take this route in the daytime due to the risk of accidents. 
Let someone know your expected arrival time and what action they should take if you do not arrive at that time.  
Airport hotels rooms are extremely limited and in high demand. 
Airport water taxis and ferries 
The 2 main water taxi operators, Sierra Leone Sea Coach Express Africa and SeaBird Water Taxi, run a reliable service between Freetown and Lungi. It takes 30 to 45 minutes depending on the size of the boat.  
The one-hour ferry service between Lungi Tagrin and Kissy Town only runs when there is enough demand. 
Water taxis are scheduled to align with specific flight arrivals and departures, and also include a courtesy bus between Lungi airport and the beach departure or arrival point in Lungi.  
During the rainy season from May to October, rough sea conditions may cause delays or cancellations. Water taxis have navigational aids, night lights and life jackets for passengers. However they have limited rescue capability if you fall overboard. 
Avoid using the unregulated or privately operated boats such as wooden pirogues and canoes, which do not have lights or safety equipment. British High Commission staff do not travel on small boats.
Phone services and utilities 
There is no country-wide coverage from mobile network providers in Sierra Leone. Some areas have no mobile reception. There’s no public telephone system, and landline connections are mainly disused. Calls between Sierra Leone mobile phones and Sierra Leone landline phones are not possible. 
Mains water is limited. Mains power is unreliable and extended outages are common. Power surges, especially in the rainy season, are common – you may want to use power surge protectors. Hotels and rented villas have generators and private water supplies. 
