Coronavirus guidance is being updated.
Read the Prime Minister’s statement for the latest information.

This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Sierra Leone as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Sierra Leone to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Sierra Leone
The Government of Sierra Leone has set out guidance to curb the spread of coronavirus:
Schools, universities are closed and large public gatherings of over 100 people (e.g. concerts, religious ceremonies, sporting events) are prohibited.
People are strongly advised to wash their hands, use hand sanitiser and avoid shaking-hands.
People are advised to keep to strict social distancing.
On 25 April, the Government of Sierra Leone extended the Inter-District lockdown. You will require an e-pass if you need to move between districts, which if you are eligible for, you can apply for online.
There is a continued curfew, where you must stay in your accomadation between 9pm and 6am.
It is now mandatory for the general public to wear face masks in public.
Health
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Sierra Leone
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Sierra Leone, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further Information
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
