This page has information on travelling to Sri Lanka. Check what you must do to return to the UK.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport from the UK, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Sri Lanka set and enforce entry rules.
All travellers
All visitors who have permission to travel to Sri Lanka are advised to apply online for an Electronic Travel Authorisation (ETA) to enter Sri Lanka. Further information on eligibility is available on the Department of Immigration and Emigration website.
Visitors can apply for an ETA on the ETA website.
On arrival visa facilities are available, however applying for an ETA before travel is advised for ease of travel and to prevent delays on arrival.
All visitors need to comply with the guidelines imposed for tourists by the Government of Sri Lanka.
If your visa is expiring you will need to apply for an extension through the Department for Immigration and Emigration. You should ring the Department for Immigration and Emigration on +94 70 710 1050 or visit their website to make an appointment.
Entry requirements could change at short notice, and government websites are not always up to date. You should follow the instructions of the local authorities.
If you’re fully vaccinated
An online pre-travel health registration form needs to be completed by all UK travellers. Details can be found on the Sri Lanka Tourism Development Authority website.
Travellers aged 12 and above entering Sri Lanka, regardless of vaccination status, will need to show proof of either a negative PCR test (taken no more than 72 hours before embarkation), or a negative Rapid Antigen Test report (taken within 48 hours before embarkation). Self-swab tests will not be recognised. See information on getting a test before entry.
COVID-19 travel insurance is now mandatory for all visitors. You can apply and pay online. If you have full insurance cover that specifically covers COVID-19, you will not be required to obtain COVID-19 travel insurance. Further details can be found on the Sri Lankan Tourism Development Authority website.
Fully vaccinated travellers can stay at any type of accommodation. Find out if you qualify as fully vaccinated in Sri Lanka on the Sri Lankan Tourism Development Authority website.
Proof of vaccination status
Sri Lanka will accept the UK’s letter version of proof of COVID-19 recovery and vaccination record and proof of COVID-19 vaccination issued in the Crown Dependencies. They will not accept digital proof. Your final vaccine dose must have been administered at least 14 days prior to travel. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
You must present proof that you have been fully vaccinated to enter Sri Lanka.
If you’re not fully vaccinated
An online pre-travel health registration form needs to be completed by all UK travellers. Details can be found on the Sri Lanka Tourism Development Authority website.
COVID-19 travel insurance is now mandatory for all visitors. You can apply and pay online. If you have full insurance cover that specifically covers COVID-19, you will not be required to obtain COVID-19 travel insurance. Further details can be found on the Sri Lankan Tourism Development Authority website.
Travellers aged 12 and above entering Sri Lanka, regardless of vaccination status, will need to show proof of either a negative PCR test (taken no more than 72 hours before embarkation), or a negative Rapid Antigen Test report (taken within 48 hours before embarkation). Self-swab tests will not be recognised. See information on getting a test before entry.
Once you arrive in Sri Lanka you need to follow the guidance for not-vaccinated and not-fully-vaccinated travellers. You will need to stay in a Tourism Bio Bubble until either you reach 14 days post vaccination or 7 days after arrival (whichever comes first will apply for not-fully vaccinated travellers). You will be allowed to visit approved tourist sites and use all facilities of the hotel upon negative results of the on-arrival PCR test. Further details can be found on the Sri Lanka Tourism Development Authority website.
Find out if you qualify as fully vaccinated in Sri Lanka on the Sri Lankan Tourism Development Authority website.
Children and young people
Unvaccinated children aged 11 years and under of fully vaccinated parents who are tourists or foreign nationals, are allowed to travel with fully vaccinated parents.
Unvaccinated children of 12 to 18 years of fully vaccinated parents who are tourist or foreign nationals, need to undergo Day 1 PCR testing at a Ministry of Health approved laboratory at Katunayake, a Quarantine Hotel or a Safe and Secure certified Level 1 Hotel. If the Day 1 PCR report is negative, they will be released from quarantine and will be allowed to go home or a hotel with fully vaccinated parents. They will not be further quarantined.
Children of 12 to 18 years who have obtained at least one dose of Pfizer vaccine (at least 2 weeks before travel) will be considered ‘fully vaccinated’.
If you’re transiting through Sri Lanka
Transiting is when you pass through one country on the way to your final destination. Transit via Sri Lanka is permitted, as long as the connecting flight is within 10 hours of arrival. Travellers should check with their airline on the transit times. There may be limited airside refreshment facilities available due to COVID-19 restrictions.
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
Passport validity
If you are visiting Sri Lanka, your passport should be valid for 6 months from the date you arrive.
Check with your travel provider to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Visas
All visitors who have permission to travel to Sri Lanka are advised to apply online for an Electronic Travel Authorisation (ETA) to enter Sri Lanka. Further information on eligibility is available on the Department of Immigration and Emigration website.
Visitors can apply for an ETA on the ETA website.
On arrival visa facilities are available, however applying for an ETA before travel is advised for ease of travel and to prevent delays on arrival.
All visitors need to comply with the guidelines imposed for tourists by the Government of Sri Lanka.
If your visa is expiring you will need to apply for an extension through the Department for Immigration and Emigration. You should ring the Department for Immigration and Emigration on +94 70 710 1050 or visit their website to make an appointment.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents are accepted for entry, airside transit and exit from Sri Lanka.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
Returning to the UK
Check what you must do to return to the UK.
