

The Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) cannot provide tailored advice for individual trips. Read this travel advice and carry out your own research before deciding whether to travel. 
Emergency services in Sri Lanka 
Ambulance: 011 2691111 or 1990 
Fire and Rescue: 111 
Police: 118/119 
Emergency Police Mobile Squad: 011 5717171 
Tourist Police: 011 2421052 
Contact your travel provider and insurer 
Contact your travel provider and your insurer if you are involved in a serious incident or emergency abroad. They will tell you if they can help and what you need to do. 
Refunds and changes to travel 
For refunds or changes to travel, contact your travel provider. You may also be able to make a claim through insurance. However, insurers usually require you to talk to your travel provider first. 
Find out more about changing or cancelling travel plans, including: 
where to get advice if you are in a dispute with a provider
how to access previous versions of travel advice to support a claim
Support from FCDO 
FCDO has guidance on staying safe and what to do if you need help or support abroad, including: 
finding English-speaking lawyers or funeral directors in Sri Lanka
dealing with a death in Sri Lanka
being arrested or imprisoned in Sri Lanka
getting help if you’re a victim of crime
what to do if you’re in hospital
if you’re affected by a crisis, such as a terrorist attack
Contacting FCDO 
Help abroad  
See how to get help from the UK government abroad including in an emergency. 
Help in the UK  
You can call  FCDO in London if you need urgent help because something has happened to a friend or relative abroad.  
Telephone: 020 7008 5000 (24 hours)  
Find out about call charges 
Get travel advice updates  
Sign up to get email notifications when this travel advice is updated.  
Follow FCDO:
travel advice on X
travel advice on Facebook
Risk information for British companies  
The Overseas Business Risk service offers information and advice for British companies operating in Sri Lanka on how to manage political, economic, and business security-related risks.
