At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Coronavirus
Cases of coronavirus (COVID-19) have been confirmed in Sri Lanka. The Sri Lankan Government is taking precautions to prevent the spread of the virus. You should comply with screening measures put in place by the authorities.
People arriving from the UK, or having travelled through the UK, will not be allowed to enter Sri Lanka from midnight on 16 March. Anyone arriving in Sri Lanka after that date will either be refused entry or placed into military-supervised quarantine for 14 days. No new visas are being issued to British nationals.
The Sri Lankan government has announced the suspension of flights to Sri Lanka from 17 March. This could have an impact on outgoing flights. If you are in Sri Lanka and wish to leave, we recommend that you make arrangements while commercial means are available. You should speak to your airline or tour company.
The government has announced that people who have arrived in Sri Lanka from Europe between 1-15 March should register with the police by telephone via the emergency 119 service or by calling the local station. Speak to your hotel or tour company for assistance.
Similar restrictions are in place for a range of countries. The list of countries that are subject to quarantine requirements is under daily review by the government.
The government announced the suspension of flights to Sri Lanka from 17 March. This could have an impact on outgoing flights. We will update the Travel Advice with further information when we have it. If you are in Sri Lanka please contact your airline for further information about implications for your travel plans.
The government have announced that people who have arrived in Sri Lanka from Europe between 1-15 March should register with the police by telephone via the emergency 119 service or by calling the local station. Speak to your hotel or tour company for assistance.
On 3 March the government announced that cruise ship passengers will not be allowed to disembark in the country, including for temporary shore visits. You should speak to your tour operator for further information on the impact on any existing travel plans.
Colombo airport authorities have announced that only passengers will be allowed onto the airport premises.
Health screening measures have been introduced for all flight arrivals. The Ministry of Health has issued a press release and introduced a 24 hour hotline for anyone requiring information on coronavirus - +94 710170717.
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
You can find more information about cases in Sri Lanka on the TravelHealthPro website
Medical treatment
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 011 2691111 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment
Emergency medical treatment isn’t easily available outside main cities, and you may have to be brought to Colombo for treatment. Medical facilities are not always of a standard expected in the UK, particularly outside Colombo. Treatment in private hospitals can be expensive and the options for repatriation to the UK or neighbouring countries in an emergency are limited and very expensive. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation.
Diseases
All regions of Sri Lanka experience outbreaks of the mosquito-borne dengue fever. The Epidemiological Unit of the Ministry of Health issued a public message on 9 September 2019. You should take steps to avoid being bitten by mosquitoes.
