Following the Easter Sunday terrorist attacks in April 2019, the Sri Lankan authorities announced emergency regulations that ban the wearing of clothing or objects that conceal the face in such a way that prevents the wearer’s identification.
The Sri Lankan government published a revised list of organisations and individuals proscribed under Sri Lankan law in March 2021. Any travellers to Sri Lanka who have been designated under this legislation could be subject to Sri Lanka’s Prevention of Terrorism Act who allows for prolonged detention, in some circumstances without charge/trial.
There are severe penalties for all drug offences and crimes related to the abuse of children. In some circumstances you can be held without charge indefinitely. Convicted offenders may face a lengthy jail sentence.
It’s Sri Lankan law that you must carry an official form of identification at all times. For foreign nationals, the acceptable form of identification is your passport. If you do not have it with you and you’re stopped by the authorities, you may be detained. If you’re detained, you should ask the authorities to contact the British High Commission.
Same-sex relations are illegal but the FCDO is not aware of any prosecutions. See our information and advice page for the LGBT community before you travel.
Nude or topless sunbathing is not allowed.
Although Sri Lankan attitudes to informal styles of dress are generally relaxed, women travelling alone may feel uncomfortable if not dressed modestly. Cover your legs and shoulders, and take off shoes and hats if you are entering a Buddhist temple.
The mistreatment of Buddhist images and artefacts is a serious offence and tourists have been convicted for this. British nationals have been refused entry to Sri Lanka or faced deportation for having visible tattoos of Buddha. Don’t pose for photographs standing in front of a statue of Buddha.
Don’t take photographs of military bases, government buildings or vehicles used by VIPs (this includes numerous sites in central Colombo).
You can be fined if you ignore instructions not to smoke or drink in certain public areas.
Alcohol and meat are not usually available on religious holidays. Drinking in public on these days would be seen by many as culturally insensitive.
