Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

There remain commercial options to return to the UK from Sri Lanka.
If you live in the UK and are currently visiting Sri Lanka, you are strongly advised to return now by commercial means. Do not run the risk of getting stranded.
UK special charter flights will only operate for priority countries where commercial flights are not possible. You should not assume that these flights will become available in countries where commercial routes are operating.
Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British High Commission Colombo on Twitter.
Flights
Qatar Airways services have been reduced to one flight per day to Doha, with onward connections to the UK. The airline has advised that they intend to keep operating this route for as long as possible.
Sri Lankan Airlines have extended the suspension of flights until at least 15 May.
Airlines operating via the United Arab Emirates, including Emirates Airlines and Etihad, have suspended flights out of Colombo indefinitely. Some airlines are changing flight schedules with little prior notice. You should keep in close contact with your airline or travel agent.
If your airline has cancelled your flight you may need to buy a new ticket with one of the airlines that continue to operate. Your original airline or your insurance provider will be able to confirm arrangements for refunds.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Travelling to the airport
The government has announced the phased reduction in curfew measures to allow some people to return to work, beginning in some areas from 20 April. Overnight curfew measures and social distancing instructions will remain in force. In addition, the authorities have quarantined a number of towns where they judge the immediate risk to be highest. Curfews are subject to last-minute changes. Checkpoints have been introduced in a number of places, and those not adhering to the restrictions risk arrest. Speak to your hotel or travel agent for the latest information, and follow the instructions of the security forces at all times.
The government has confirmed that airline tickets can be used as a curfew pass to travel to the airport. Your hotel or travel agency should be able to help book transport to the airport. The government has established a helpline for tourists (1912) who are facing problems booking taxis to the airport for departure.
Existing visas
If you are already in Sri Lanka, the government has announced that visit visas will be extended to 12 May. The government has confirmed that you can pay the relevant fee and complete the process at the airport on departure.
Arrival in the UK
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Staying in Sri Lanka
If you decide to remain in Sri Lanka, for example because you have family, business or employment reasons to do so, a serious outbreak of coronavirus will place significant strain on the healthcare system, and may impact on the availability of consular services. Private hospitals are not currently permitted to offer treatment for coronavirus.
You should ensure that you have sufficient accommodation, funds and immigration clearance for your stay. Flights out of Sri Lanka may also be seriously affected, and availability cannot be guaranteed should you decide to leave at a later date.
Further information
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
