Coronavirus guidance is being updated.
Read what you can and cannot do

This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Sri Lanka as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Sri Lanka to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Sri Lanka
The Sri Lankan government has announced that people who arrived in Sri Lanka after 1 March should register with the police by telephone via the emergency 119 service or by calling the local station. Speak to your hotel or tour company for assistance.
Some curfew measures remain in place.
The government has reduced curfew measures in most of the country to allow people to return to work. However, overnight curfew measures and social distancing instructions remain in force everywhere.
In districts, where the government assesses that the risk of infection is higher, tighter controls remain in place.
Limited movement within these high risk areas will be allowed only between 0500 and 2000 each day for the purposes of essential shopping or for medical needs, and based on the last number of your National Identity Card or Passport as follows:
Monday: 1 & 2
Tuesday: 3 & 4
Wednesday: 5 & 6
Thursday: 7 & 8
Friday: 9 & 0
Additionally, people in high risk areas are now allowed to travel to work.
Curfew measures are being updated and changed on a daily basis. You should follow the media for updates, or speak to your hotel or travel agent for the latest information.
Checkpoints have been introduced in a number of places, and those not adhering to the restrictions risk arrest. Follow the instructions of the local authorities at all times.
Visas
If you are already in Sri Lanka, the government has announced that the validity period of all types of visas has been extended to 11 June. If your visa has run out or will run out before 11 June you can make an appointment to apply for an extension through a new online service: http://eservices.immigration.gov.lk/vs.
Alternatively you can pay the relevant fee and complete the paperwork at the airport on departure. You should ring the Department for Immigration and Emigration on +94 70 710 1050 if you have further questions.
Accommodation
A small number of tourists have reported problems with hotels trying to cancel bookings made by foreign visitors, and some incidents of harassment. Speak to your travel agent about any accommodation booking problems, and report any incidents of harassment to the police first and then to the British High Commission.
Health
The Sri Lankan healthcare system will come under significant further strain as the number of cases increases. Access to routine and emergency healthcare may be limited. View Health for further details on healthcare in Sri Lanka.
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
You can find more information about cases in Sri Lanka on the TravelHealthPro website
