Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for the Cook Islands on the TravelHealthPro website.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in the Cook Islands.
Returning to the UK
Travelling from and returning to the UK
Check what you must do to travel abroad and return to England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
If you plan to pass through another country to return to the UK, check the travel advice for the country you’re transiting. If you will pass through a red list country, book your hotel quarantine package before travelling to the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 pre-departure test, in line with UK government testing requirements. You should contact local government health authorities.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in the Cook Islands
There are no domestic travel restrictions in place in the Cook Islands. The government’s recommendations on physical distancing and good hygiene measures remain in place, see the Cook Islands COVID-19 website for further detail.
Healthcare
For health-related questions or concerns while in the Cook Islands, call the Healthline on 0800 1801. For all COVID-19 related enquires contact the health department at the local government authorities.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Cook Islands, Tokelau and Niue
Wherever possible British nationals should aim to be vaccinated in the country where they live. We will update this page when the Government of Cook Islands, Tokelau and Niue announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Cook Islands, Tokelau and Niue national vaccination programme started in May using the Pfizer vaccine. British nationals resident in Cook Islands, Tokelau and Niue are eligible for vaccination. Further information on the vaccination programme is available on the following websites:
Cook Islands Ministry of Health website
Tokelau Health Department Facebook page (Tokelauan language only – contact your local health provider if you do not speak Tokelauan)
Niue Office of the Secretary of Government Facebook page
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in Cook Islands, Tokelau and Niue, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
Further information on these and the wider situation in the Cook Islands is available from the Cook Islands COVID-19 website and the Cook Islands Ministry of Health website.
