The information on this page covers the most common types of travel and reflects the UK government’s understanding of the rules currently in place. Unless otherwise stated, this information is for travellers using a full ‘British Citizen’ passport.
The authorities in the country or territory you’re travelling to are responsible for setting and enforcing the rules for entry. If you’re unclear about any aspect of the entry requirements, or you need further reassurance, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
You should also consider checking with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Entry rules in response to coronavirus (COVID-19)
The borders of the Cook Islands are closed to all persons unless an exemption is provided (in writing) by the Cook Islands Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Immigration.
Exemptions detailed on the Cook Islands Travel Advisory comprise Cook Islanders, Permanent Residents of the Cook Islands, Cook Islands work permit holders and Cook Islands resident permit holders. You can find detailed information on how to request an exemption and the conditions for travel on the Cook Islands Travel Advisory.
Quarantine-free travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands
From 17 May 2021 you can travel between the Cook Islands and New Zealand without having to go into managed isolation or self-isolation when you arrive at your destination. You need to spend 14 full days before your date of departure in either the Cook Islands or New Zealand.
Normal immigration rules apply for the Cook Islands. This means that if you usually need a visa to enter the Cook Islands, then you will need one to travel quarantine-free. For more information see the Cook Islands government website and New Zealand COVID19 website.
Please ensure you check your New Zealand entry requirements.
Border rules including eligibility criteria can change quickly. Travellers must prepare for disruption to their plans.
Check the COVID-19 government website for the latest information, including changes to quarantine-free travel.
Transit via New Zealand
From 20 June, transit visa waiver and visa waiver nationalities, people transiting to or from Australia and people departing a Pacific country or territory to return home, do not need a transit visa as long as they have a confirmed flight out of New Zealand within 24 hours to a port which will accept them.
In most cases, transit passengers must hold an Electronic Travel Authority (ETA) or transit ETA before travel. These are applied for online. See Information about NZeTA for further detail.
If the passport holder is not from a visa-waiver or transit visa-waiver country or territory, or covered by one of the situations listed above, then they will need to apply for a transit visa. Due to COVID-19, Immigration New Zealand is not currently accepting paper applications for transit visas so have put a temporary process in place for submitting applications by email.
The process for applying for a transit visa via email is available on the Immigration New Zealand website - transits.
The New Zealand Government will require all travellers to New Zealand (except those from Australia, Antarctica and most Pacific islands) to have a COVID-19 test taken and a negative result returned within 72 hours of their first scheduled international flight. This will come into force on flights arriving in New Zealand after 11:59pm (local time) on 25 January.
The Pacific islands that are exempt from pre-departure testing for entry into New Zealand are Cook Islands, Federated States of Micronesia, Fiji, Kiribati, Marshall Islands, Nauru, New Caledonia, Niue, Palau, Samoa, Solomon Islands, Tokelau, Tonga, Tuvalu, Vanuatu, and Wallis and Futuna.
Air New Zealand now requires all passengers to wear a face-covering on international flights. Face-coverings are already required by New Zealand local legislation on all domestic flights. This requirement comes into effect from 26 January 2020.
Visas
If you’re unable to leave the Cook Islands and your visa is nearing expiry contact the Cook Islands Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Immigration at (+682) 29 347 or immigration2@cookislands.gov.ck.
Regular entry requirements
Passport validity
Your passport should be valid for a minimum period of 6 months from the date of entry into the Cook Islands, Tokelau and Niue. Entry is normally refused if you have a passport which is damaged or has pages missing.
Visas
Tourists do not need a visa for visits of up to 31 days. You must have an onward or return ticket and a valid visa for the next country you’re travelling to. If you’re staying longer than 31 days in The Cook Islands or Niue you may needs a visa or entry on arrival permit. For Tokelau, permission normally needs to be acquired from the Taupulega (Council) and tickets have to be bought from the Tokelau office in Samoa for the boats. Space on the vessels is in high demand. The travel can be onerous in heavy seas.
Extensions may be granted on a monthly basis for up to 5 months. For extensions, you will need to apply at least 2 weeks before your permit expires.
If you plan to join a tourist boat, yacht or other sea-going vessel to travel beyond the Cook Islands, you must apply for permission to enter via the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Immigration (MFAI).
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents are valid for entry, transit and exit from Cook Islands, Tokelau and Niue. However, the closest office for issuing is in New Zealand.
