If you have a health condition, or you are pregnant, you may need specialist healthcare abroad. Check whether your destination country can provide the healthcare you may need and ensure you have appropriate travel insurance for unexpected medical evacuation or local treatment.
See the Coronavirus travel health and Healthcare sections in the Coronavirus page for COVID-19 health information.
Preparing for travel
At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or bought in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Medical facilities
Medical facilities in the Cook Islands and the islands of Niue and Tokelau are limited. In the event of a medical emergency, evacuation to mainland New Zealand is likely to be the only option for treatment. Make sure your insurance policy includes provision for medical evacuation and covers you for all eventualities, including for any pre-existing conditions and any adventure or watersports activities within your travel plans.
Hospitals may not be as well-equipped as those in United Kingdom and may lack specialist equipment (including neo-natal equipment for premature babies). Hospital payment may be required before any treatment is received. Outside the capital there may be limited capacity to respond to emergency situations. Not all Pacific islands have diver decompression chambers and divers needing emergency treatment may need medical evacuation.
Health risks
There is a risk of mosquito-borne diseases, including dengue. You should take steps to avoid mosquito bites. Check the relevant TravelHealthPro country page for more information and advice.
Ciguatera is an illness caused by eating fish containing certain toxins. It can cause nausea, vomiting, and tingling fingers or toes and sometimes serious illness. There is no way to tell whether fish has been contaminated, but reef fish tend to concentrate the toxins more than others. Deep water fish like tuna, mahi mahi or wahoo are better options.
Water
In the Cook Islands, Rarotonga and Aitutaki have reticulated water supply systems. Water usage is not charged. On the other islands of the Southern Group, limited reticulation is provided and augmented by rainwater catchment and storage. The atolls of the Northern Group rely on rainwater from roof catchments.
Tokelau and Niue’s water supply is still at the household level. Rainwater harvesting from roofs is the primary source of water in Tokelau. Boiling water and only drinking bottled water is strongly recommended.
