

Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.    
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in the Cook Islands, Tokelau and Niue
Although there is no recent history of terrorism in the Cook Islands, Tokelau or Niue, attacks cannot be ruled out.
Crime
Do not leave valuables unattended or in plain sight. Items left unattended on the beach or in unsecured storage, including in scooters or motorcycles, are a particular target.
Laws and cultural differences
Illegal drugs and prison sentences
There are severe penalties for possessing or importing even small amounts of drugs, including deportation and imprisonment.
LGBT+ travellers
Same-sex sexual activity is not illegal. However, showing affection in public may be considered offensive.
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Accessing money
In the Cook Islands, the only ATMs are on the islands of Rarotonga and Aitutaki. Credit and some debit cards are widely accepted on Rarotonga and some places on Aitutaki. You must use cash on the other islands.
There are no banks in Tokelau, so you’ll need to bring cash with you.
In Niue, most businesses accept New Zealand debit cards, Mastercard and Visa. Some businesses offer cashback. There are no ATMs in Niue, but you can withdraw cash from Kiwibank in Alofi. Kiwibank accepts only New Zealand debit cards, Mastercard and Visa.
Outdoor activities and adventure tourism
If you plan to hire motorbikes, jet skis or any other motorised vehicle, follow local licensing laws. Ask your travel insurance company if your policy covers these activities and get advice on any restrictions. Wear a helmet when using motorbikes or scooters.
Swimming safety
Follow local safety advice when swimming, snorkelling or diving. At certain times of the year, some beaches in Niue are closed for traditional fishing activities.
See water safety on holiday from the Royal Life Saving Society.
Transport risks
Road travel
If you are planning to drive in the Cook Islands, Tokelau or Niue, see information on driving abroad.
You can use a UK photocard driving licence to drive in the Cook Islands. In Niue, you must apply for a local driving licence from the police department. If you still have a paper driving licence, you may need to update it to a photocard licence or get the correct version of the international driving permit (IDP) as well.
Driving on islands in the South Pacific can be challenging, particularly at night. Road conditions and street lighting are poor and there are few footpaths. Beware of pedestrians and animals on the roads.
Sea travel
Sea transport operators may not meet the safety standards you’d expect in the UK. Operators may not provide safety equipment or always follow safety regulations. Ferries are often overcrowded.
Extreme weather and natural disasters
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards.
Tropical cyclones
The South Pacific cyclone season runs from 1 November to 30 April. There are severe storms across the region, although the risk varies between countries and from season to season. On average, there are around 9 tropical cyclones each season, with some likely to be classified ‘severe’ (category 3 or higher).
Monitor local news and check World Meteorological Organization weather reports for the Cook Islands, Tokelau and Niue. Follow the advice of local authorities, including any evacuation orders. If you’re staying in a hotel, follow the guidance of hotel management or your tour operator.
Tsunamis
There is a heightened risk of tsunamis in low-lying island countries in the Pacific. Follow any instructions issued by the local authorities.
The US Federal Emergency Management Agency website has advice about what to do before, during and after an tsunami.
