This travel advice covers the Cook Islands and Niue, which are self-governing countries in free association with New Zealand, and Tokelau, which is a non-self-governing territory of New Zealand.
The Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) advises against all but essential travel to:
Tokelau and Niue based on the current assessment of COVID-19 risks
Travel is subject to entry restrictions
The Cook Islands border is currently closed with limited exemptions, see Entry requirements
Entry to New Zealand is currently closed to almost all arrivals
See Entry requirements for more information before you plan to travel.
Returning to the UK
Cook Islands are on the amber list for entering England. Check what you must do to enter England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
If you’re planning travel to the Cook Islands, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCDO guidance on foreign travel insurance.
For information about COVID-19 vaccines, see the Coronavirus page.
There is no British representation on the Cook Islands, or the islands of Niue or Tokelau. You should contact the New Zealand High Commission if you need consular assistance on the Cook Islands or Niue. If you need consular assistance on Tokelau, contact the British High Commission in Wellington.
If you need urgent consular assistance, 24/7 support is available by telephone on +64 (0) 4 924 2888.
The South Pacific cyclone season begins on 1 November and runs until 30 April each year. Each cyclone season, a number of severe storms can be expected across the regions. You should monitor local and international weather reports to keep up to date with developments. See Natural disasters
The crime rate is low but you should take the same precautions as you would at home. See Crime
There have been ferry accidents in the Pacific resulting in a number of fatalities. The safety standards you might expect of transport operators in the UK may not be replicated in the Pacific. See Sea travel
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in the Cook Islands, Tokelau or Niue, attacks can not be ruled out. See Terrorism
