Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for the USA on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Testing arrangements vary from state to state, but there are a range of providers available and you should contact local authorities in your location for information on testing facilities. Details of testing options in your area can also be found on State Health Department websites and local health department websites.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in USA.
Returning to the UK
Travelling from and returning to the UK
Check what you must do to travel abroad and return to England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
If you plan to pass through another country to return to the UK, check the travel advice for the country you’re transiting.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive while in the USA, you may be required to isolate in a private area, likely a hotel or a private residence. Isolation requirements will depend on the guidance in the state where you are residing/visiting. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) recommends a minimum isolation period of at least five full days. Any assistance for those required to quarantine will depend on the local authority. You should check the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) travel planner to verify local state guidance.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in USA
Many airports in the USA have implemented safety measures designed to limit the spread of COVID-19. You should check the website of the airport you are flying into or transiting to see how these could affect you.
A number of US states no longer mandate the use of masks and face coverings while in public. However, the guidance will vary from state to state and there can often be different rules within different localities in the same state. You should consult the website of the state or city to which you are travelling. Further details are found on the USA.GOV site. Penalties for breaches of regulations will vary between each state and may sometimes vary in different areas in the same state.
Some areas require proof of vaccination in order to access local amenities. In certain localities, children 5 to 17 years may not be exempt from this requirement. Some private venues, including restaurants and concert halls, have made proof of vaccination (or a recent negative COVID-19 test result) a requirement for entry. The precise requirements may vary from venue to venue so you should check on compliancy requirements in advance.
Accommodation
Hotels will be operating at capacities dictated by local rules and regulations.
Public places and services
Local regulations on shops, restaurants, bars, beaches and other leisure activities may be following measures designed to limit the spread of COVID-19. Some areas require proof of vaccination or evidence of a negative COVID-19 test in order to access local amenities. In certain localities, children aged 5 to 17 years may not be exempt from this requirement.
Healthcare in USA
There are restrictions and prohibitions on the import of certain prescription drugs into the USA. The US Food and Drug Administration website contains further information and advice on bringing medicines into the USA. UK prescriptions are not valid in the USA. In order for a British National to obtain pharmacy drugs, you would need to have a prescription from a US provider. This can be done from attending an ‘Urgent Care’ facility, Emergency Room or a doctor’s surgery.
If you think you have COVID-19 symptoms, you should contact a local healthcare provider. More details are available on the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in the USA.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in USA
Wherever possible British nationals should aim to be vaccinated in the country where they live. For the USA, details can be found on the CDC Vaccine website. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The USA’s national vaccination programme started in December 2020 and is using the Janssen (Johnson and Johnson), Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna vaccines. British nationals resident in the USA are eligible for vaccination. Each state is responsible for distributing vaccines and has its own vaccination plan. You should contact the local health department in the state or territory where you are resident for information on COVID-19 vaccination in your area.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in the USA, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
You can also find information at:
State Government website
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
