At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist are available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you are abroad.
There are restrictions and prohibitions on the import of certain prescription drugs into the USA. The US Department of Homeland Security website contains further information and advice on bringing medicines into the USA.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Coronavirus
The US authorities have introduced a number of precautionary measures in response to the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. You should comply with any additional screening measures put in place by the local authorities. Given the fast changing situation, you should check the latest entry requirements for your destination and keep in touch with your airline, cruise line or tour operator before you travel.
On 11 March President Trump announced that, effective from midnight Friday 13 March, the US Government will not permit entry to the USA of any non-US nationals, including British nationals, who have visited (or are resident in) Schengen Area countries 14 days or less prior to their travel to the USA. The US Government has indicated that this is a temporary restriction that will last for 30 days. This restriction does not apply to travellers from the UK who have been continually present in the UK or the Republic of Ireland for at least 14 days prior to their travel to the USA. We understand the restriction does not apply to those with permanent residence (Green Card holders) in the US or to non-US national spouses of US nationals or permanent residents. For further information please see the US State Department website. You should check with your airline for any additional information they may require before you can board.
With effect from 2 February, the US Government will not permit entry to the USA of any foreign nationals who have visited China 14 days or less prior to their travel to the USA. On 29 February the US Government announced that it would not permit entry to the USA of any foreign nationals who have visited Iran 14 days or less prior to their travel to the USA. More information for travellers to the USA can be found on the US Centre for Disease Control (CDC) website, including information about cases in the United States.
American Samoa currently requires all non-US passport holders to spend at least 14 days in Hawaii, Samoa (Apia) or Tonga before entering. Other restrictions for those travelling from countries affected by the outbreak could also be in force. If you’re due to travel, check the websites of the American Samoa Government and the US Center for Disease Control and Prevention for any updates, and with your airline before leaving.
Further advice is available from Public Health England, and the TravelHealthPro website.
Medical treatment
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 911 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you’re referred to a medical facility for treatment.
Medical treatment is expensive and there are no special arrangements for British visitors. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation.
Some hospitals may ask non-US residents to pay a deposit or ‘good faith’ payment on admittance. You should direct any requests for funds to your travel insurance provider in the first instance; only pay the hospital if you’re advised to do so by your travel insurance company. Your level of medical care won’t be affected while your claim is being processed.
Medical facilities in American Samoa are basic and medical evacuation by air ambulance to Hawaii, New Zealand or Australia may be necessary. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation.
Health risks
You should take suitable steps to avoid being bitten by mosquitoes and ticks. There are occasional outbreaks of mosquito-borne diseases.
UK health authorities have classified the USA as having a risk of Zika virus transmission in Florida, Texas (Cameron County and Hidalgo County only), Puerto Rico and the US Virgin Islands. For more information and advice, visit the National Travel Health Network and Centre website: for travel to Florida and Texas (Cameron County and Hidalgo County only) - for travel to Puerto Rico - for travel to US Virgin Islands - for travel to American Samoa - for travel to Guam.
