Coronavirus guidance is being updated.
Read the Prime Minister’s address for the latest information.

There remain commercial options to return to the UK from the USA.
If you live in the UK and are currently visiting the USA you’re strongly advised to return now by commercial means. Don’t run the risk of getting stranded.
UK special charter flights will only operate for priority countries where commercial flights are not possible. You should not assume that these flights will become available in countries where commercial routes are operating. You should not contact the contracted travel management company if no flight is advertised here.
Flights
If you wish to return to the UK, the following airports are operating transatlantic flights:
JFK (New York)
LAX (Los Angeles)
BOS (Boston)
IAD (Washington DC)
ORD (Chicago)
MIA (Miami)
EWR (Newark)
DFW (Dallas)
If you are looking for a flight, check the relevant airline websites:
American
British Airways
Delta
United
Virgin Atlantic
If there are no longer direct flights available to the UK from your current location, use airline websites to book connecting flights to cities where flights are available to the UK.
You should now:
contact your airline, travel company or transport provider as soon as possible to book your travel
contact your insurance company, if you have travel insurance
be prepared that your plans may need to change at short notice
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Transit through the US
You can transit the USA on an ESTA visa waiver but only if you have not been in the UK, Ireland, Schengen zone, Iran or China within the previous 14 days. For further information, check advice from US Customs and Border Protection.
If you’re in transit, you’re encouraged to have evidence of outward travel to meet the 14 day requirement to hand (boarding passes, travel itineraries), build in extra time to get through airports and check the website for local CBP contacts.
Your journey home
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British Embassy Washington on +1 202 588 6500. The British Embassy Washington cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone.
Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British Embassy Washington or British Consulates-General on Twitter and Facebook.
Further information
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
