

Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.   
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in the USA
Terrorists are very likely to try and carry out attacks in the US.
Terrorism attacks could be indiscriminate, including in places visited by tourists and foreign nationals such as:
crowded places and mass gatherings
transportation networks
sporting and cultural events
places of worship and religious sites
hospitals and clinics, schools and universities
Stay aware of your surroundings, keep up to date with local media reports and follow the advice of local authorities.  The US Department of Homeland Security provides alerts within the US and its territories. If there is a life threatening emergency, call 911.  US authorities regularly report that they have disrupted planned attacks and made arrests. Report suspicious activity to local law enforcement authorities.
Crime
Protecting your belongings
Do not leave passports in rental cars, especially not in the boot. Gangs may target vehicles driven by people who look like tourists.
Violent crime
Violent crime and gun crime rarely affect tourists, but take care in unfamiliar areas. Try not to walk through quieter areas alone, especially at night. You can find public advisories and information about recent incidents on local law enforcement websites.
Mass shooting incidents can happen but are a very small percentage of murders. The US Department of Homeland Security has advice on what to do in an active shooter incident.
Research your destination before you travel and follow the advice of local authorities. Crime linked to illegal drugs is a major issue in Mexican states bordering Arizona, California, New Mexico and Texas. Some foreign nationals have been victims of crime in the border regions, but there is no evidence they were targeted because of their nationality.
Protests
Protests are common and can become violent. Follow the instructions of local authorities who may introduce curfews or emergency orders. If you attend peaceful protests or mass gatherings:
be mindful of your surroundings
move away if there are signs of trouble
follow the instructions of local authorities
Laws and cultural differences
US states may have different laws. While you are in a state, you are subject to both that state’s laws as well as national (federal) law. Not adhering to all US state and federal law can put your visa status and future travel to the US at risk.
Personal ID
Always carry a passport showing you have permission to enter or remain in the US.
Alcohol laws
The national legal age for buying and drinking alcohol is 21. Some states have different laws. If you are aged 20 or under, check state laws before drinking or buying alcohol.
Illegal drugs
Illegal drugs, including cannabis, carry severe penalties. You should expect a long jail sentence and heavy fines for possessing, using or smuggling illegal drugs, including when transiting through airports. US law prohibits the importation, exportation, manufacture, sale or transportation of drug paraphernalia. If you are convicted of any of these offenses, you will be subject to fines and imprisonment.
Airports in USA have excellent technology and security for detecting illegal items. This is also used to scan the baggage of transiting passengers. All persons arriving at a port-of-entry to the United States are subject to inspection by U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) officers.
Check state laws to make sure you follow laws on possession and use of controlled substances. The US Department of Justice provides a list of all controlled substances.
LGBT+ travellers
The US is a very diverse society and attitudes towards LGBT+ people differ hugely across the country. Check state and local laws for the areas you plan to travel to. Refer to entry requirements which may apply to LGBT+ travellers (see entry requirements).
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers. 
Outdoor Activities
If you’re taking part in organised outdoor activities, check that the company is reputable and has documented safety procedures.
For sports activities like skiing, potholing and mountaineering, and for sports classed as particularly dangerous (for example off-piste skiing, mountain biking, climbing or paragliding), your insurance should include:
mountain rescue services
helicopter costs
repatriation to your country of residence or possible transfer to neighbouring countries for treatment
Hiking
Check weather forecasts and conditions and make sure you’re properly equipped for the worst-case scenario with items such as a map, compass, GPS and telecommunication equipment.
Risks are greater if you undertake any activity alone. You may want to hire a guide for expert advice. Always leave copies of your itinerary with someone.
Check the US National Park Service website for additional advice.
Winter sports
Read about preparing for winter sports abroad.
Take advice on weather and avalanche conditions before you travel. Follow local skiing laws and regulations.
Off-piste skiing is very dangerous and can invalidate your travel insurance. Avalanches are a risk in some areas. Follow safety instructions carefully and go with a qualified guide. Check ahead on the National Avalanche Center website
Transport risks
Road travel
If you are planning to drive in the US, see information on driving abroad and check the driving rules in the states you’ll be visiting.
You can use a UK photocard driving licence to drive in the US. You may need to get the 1949 version of the international driving permit (IDP) as well. IDP requirements vary in each state. For more information, consult individual states’ Department of Motor Vehicles as well as the American Automobile Association (AAA).
You cannot buy an IDP outside the UK, so get one before you travel.
If you still have a paper driving licence, you must take another form of photo ID, such as your passport. You can also exchange your paper driving licence for a photocard licence.
Hire car companies often have stricter requirements for their customers, such as a year of driving experience, a higher minimum age and holding an IDP.
Vehicle safety
When travelling by car, you should:
check weather conditions before a long car journey, particularly in mountainous, isolated or desert areas where services may be limited
not sleep in your car by the road or in rest areas
avoid leaving any items on display in your car
stay on main roads
use well-lit car parks
If you’re in an accident, ask any other drivers involved to follow you to a public place and call the police.
Petrol stations
Petrol stations that do not display the price of fuel usually charge considerably more than the national average. They’re often close to tourist destinations and airports. Make sure you know the price of fuel before using these services.
Air travel
Before you travel, check the security measures you’re likely to face at the airport on the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) website. If you have a medical condition or disability and need assistance, contact TSA Cares.
To monitor airport conditions in the US, check the Federal Aviation Administration website.
Extreme weather and natural disasters
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards. 
Snowstorms
Snowstorms can disrupt critical infrastructure, and cause power cuts, or delays and cancellations in major transport hubs. Contact your travel company or airline before you travel.
Hurricanes
The Atlantic hurricane season normally runs from June to November. The Pacific hurricane season normally runs from May to November. Hurricanes can affect coastal regions, Hawaii and Guam. The South Pacific tropical cyclone season normally runs from November to May and can affect American Samoa.
The US National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) predicts that there is a very high likelihood of an “above-normal Atlantic hurricane season” in 2024. Travellers to the USA during the hurricane season should check the websites of local, State and Federal agencies (such as the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration) for the latest conditions. You should also be aware of the possibility of disruption to flights.
You should:
monitor approaching storms on the US National Hurricane Center website
follow instructions from local authorities, including evacuation orders
visit the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) website for information on preparing for extreme weather and evacuating
check with your airline or travel agent about possible disruption to flights or airport services and follow their advice
Earthquakes
While earthquakes can happen anywhere without warning in the US, Alaska, California, Hawaii, Oregon, Puerto Rico, Washington and the entire Mississippi River Valley are at higher risk for earthquakes.
The FEMA website has advice about what to do before, during and after an earthquake.
Tornadoes
Tornadoes can happen anytime depending on weather conditions. The FEMA website has advice about what to do before, during and after a tornado.
Volcanic eruptions  
There is volcanic activity across parts of the US with Alaska, Hawaii, California, Washington and Oregon having the largest number of active volcanoes. You should follow the advice of local authorities, including any evacuation orders.
The FEMA website has advice about what to do before, during and after a volcanic eruption.
Wildfires
Forest and brush fires (wildfires) are a danger in many dry areas, particularly in canyons, hills and forests. High winds can mean fires spread rapidly.
You should:
monitor local media and weather reports
follow the advice of local authorities, including any evacuation orders
be careful in areas recently affected by wildfires, as there may be mudslides during heavy rainfall
For more information visit the National Interagency Fire Center and Fire Research and Management Exchange System websites.
For information about wildfires in California, see the CAL FIRE website.
Flash flooding
Flash floods can cause travel disruption and damage to property and infrastructure. Check weather warnings from the US’s National Weather Service (NOAA) before travel and follow the advice of the local authorities.
Arctic travel
Parts of the US are in the Arctic Circle, including some very remote areas of land and sea. Emergency medical assistance and search and rescue are limited in these areas. See Arctic travel safety advice.
