This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in the USA as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in the USA to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
See Entry requirements.
Visas
ESTA extensions
If you entered the USA on an ESTA, you are concerned that your period of admission is about to expire and you cannot depart the USA due to the ongoing coronavirus crisis, apply for Satisfactory Departure from the US Customs and Border Protection.
This discretionary authority permits US Citizenship and Immigration Services and US Customs and Border Protection to extend an ESTA admission for up to 30 days in order to allow you to depart the USA without penalty.
You can find more information and directions on how to apply for Satisfactory Departure on the US Customs and Border Protection website.
Short-term visas
If you’re in the US on a non-immigration visa, US Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) are accepting timely extension of stay (EOS) or change in status (COS) applications. The granting of either status will allow British nationals whose visas have expired to remain lawfully in the USA for an agreed period of time. You can find the relevant forms and information on the applications process on the USCIS website. Granting of either status is at the discretion of USCIS and is not guaranteed. USCIS guidance indicates that once a request for an extension of status is submitted, the traveller is generally considered in-status until USCIS makes a decision on the application and is not at risk of incurring overstay penalties or facing legal repercussions.
Green cards
From 22 April, the USA is no longer issuing ‘green card’ visas to those seeking lawful permanent residence. This order will last for 60 days, contains a number of exemptions, and is subject to further review and extension.
For details and further information, you should refer to advice from the US Embassy in the UK.
Health
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in the USA.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
