This travel advice also covers American Samoa, Guam, Northern Mariana Islands, Puerto Rico, and United States Virgin Islands.
The Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) provides advice about risks of travel to help British nationals make informed decisions. Find out more about FCDO travel advice.
Heatwave in USA
Extreme temperatures are affecting many areas of the USA. Read our guidance on extreme weather in the USA and NHS advice on coping in hot weather.
Tropical Storm Hilary in Southwest USA
Tropical storm conditions are possible from Sunday 20 August in parts of Southwest USA, as a result of Hurricane Hilary. A tropical storm watch has been issued for Southern California.
You should closely monitor local and international weather updates from the US National Hurricane Center and follow the advice of local authorities and the tour operator, including any evacuation orders.
See the tropical cyclones page for advice about how to prepare for travel during hurricane season and what to do ahead of a storm.
In the aftermath of a hurricane, there can be flooding, high winds and continued rainfall. See the tropical cyclones page for further advice on what to expect in the aftermath of a hurricane.
Wildfires in Maui, Hawaii
Wildfires are affecting a number of areas of Maui County in Hawaii. Wildfires are highly dangerous and unpredictable. The situation can change quickly.
Visit the Maui County Alert Center website and Facebook page for up-to-date information from the local government including details on evacuation areas.
If you are travelling to an area affected by wildfires
If you are due to travel to an area that might be affected by wildfires, consult official local advice and contact your travel operator or accommodation provider before you travel to check that it is not currently impacted. Make sure you have appropriate insurance.
If you are in or near areas affected by wildfires
Be cautious if you are in or near an area affected by wildfires. You should:
Follow the guidance of the emergency services
Call the US Emergency Services on 911 if you are in immediate danger
Contact your airline or travel operator who can assist you with return travel to the UK.
If you need consular assistance
If you are a British national in Hawaii in need of consular assistance, please contact +1 (310) 789 0031 and press 2.
For concerned family and friends, call our 24-hour helpline on +44 20 7008 5000.
Before you travel
No travel can be guaranteed safe. Read all the advice in this guide as well as support for British nationals abroad which includes:
advice on preparing for travel abroad and reducing risks
information for women, LGBT+ and disabled travellers
Follow and contact FCDO travel on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram. You can also sign up to get email notifications when this advice is updated.
Travel insurance
If you choose to travel, research your destinations and get appropriate travel insurance. Insurance should cover your itinerary, planned activities and expenses in an emergency.
