Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Uruguay on the TravelHealthPro website.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
There are commercial options to return to the UK from Uruguay. You should check availability with your travel agent, but options include:
Iberia and Air Europa via Madrid
LATAM via Sao Paulo and Santiago
American Airlines via Miami
Eastern Airlines via Miami
You should check Travel Advice and entry requirements for any country that you will transit on your return. You should have your travel booked to your final destination before starting any journey, as you may not be allowed to board your flight without proof.
You will need a negative PCR test taken no more than 72 hours before your flight before you are allowed to board.
Travelling via Sao Paulo
Air passengers are allowed to freely transit Brazil as long as they do not leave the international airport area and have a ticket for onward travel.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Uruguay.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Uruguay
The population has been asked to maintain social distancing, including through working remotely, avoiding public transport and large gatherings, and staying at home as much as possible. Police officers will be urging people to avoid crowds.
Public places and services
Mandatory measures have been summarised below:
teleworking for public offices
closing of bars and restaurants from midnight with financial penalties for failure to comply
strict compliance with current transport measures
strict control of parties authorised by current protocol
Recommended measures
voluntary homeworking is encouraged for private companies throughout the country
only small social gatherings, with social distancing measures, facemasks and good ventilation, lasting no more than 2 hours
avoid crowding in public spaces
in case of suspected COVID-19 contact, voluntary quarantine and contact your GP
gyms, sport clubs and amateur sports activities are open but with limited number of members
See full details on new measurements in Spanish.
Healthcare in Uruguay
Citizens that present coronavirus symptoms have been asked to request home health care and not visit health centres and hospitals. Further information is also available from the Uruguayan Ministry of Health (in Spanish).
If you require a PCR test, there are companies who offer home visits or drive-through tests and normally return the results between 24-72 hours:
BIOFAST Análisis Clínicos
Clinica Preventiva
ATGen
Genodiagnosis
For contact details for English speaking doctors, visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Uruguay.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Uruguay
We will update this page when the Government of Uruguay announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Uruguay national vaccination programme started in April 2021 and is using the AstraZeneca, Pfizer-BioNTech and Sinovac vaccines. The Government of Uruguay has stated that foreign nationals resident in Uruguay are eligible for vaccination if they choose to join the programme.
If you are a British or foreign national living in Uruguay and you do not have a Uruguayan identity card (cédula de identidad), or have not started your residency process but wish to be vaccinated against COVID-19, you can request to be included in the National Vaccination Programme.
You will need:
a digital copy of the passport on which you entered the country
a certificate acknowledging that you entered the country
If you are eligible, you will receive instructions on next steps via the communication channel used when you started the application (Mail, MSM, etc). This request is to express your wish to receive the COVID-19 vaccine and to be included in the Vaccination Plan. It will then be up to the Ministry of Health to authorise your request and contact you directly to coordinate your vaccination date, if successful.
If you do have a Uruguayan identity card then you are able to request inclusion in the vaccination programme through the Coronavirus website or Coronavirus UY app.
Further information on the vaccination programme is available on the Government of Uruguay Ministry of Health website.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in Uruguay, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British Embassy in Montevideo on +598 2622 3630 or your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
The Embassy cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone. Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British Embassy on Twitter and Facebook.
