This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Uruguay set and enforce entry rules. For further information contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to. You should also consider checking with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Restrictions in response to coronavirus
Entry to Uruguay
As of 1 November 2021 Uruguay opened its borders to foreign nationals who have been fully vaccinated no more than 9 months before entry.
Visitors aged 18 and over:
Must present a negative lateral flow test taken within 72 hours of travelling
Must present proof of COVID-19 vaccinations (14 days must have passed since the last dose was administered)
Must fill out the health declaration form within 48 hours of travelling online or through the Coronavirus UY Android or IOS app
Must have medical cover in Uruguay or travel insurance. It is advisable that your insurance covers any expenses due to coronavirus related illness, quarantine or self-isolation for the duration of your stay
The following are exempt from all or part of the above:
Visitors aged 6 or under do not require any of the above documents
Visitors who have had coronavirus within the last 90 days (from date of last positive test) and not less than 20 days before date of boarding, do not have to do a PCR test, but must upload proof of positive PCR or lateral flow test to the online health declaration form
Unvaccinated foreign nationals
Unvaccinated foreign nationals need to apply for an exemption to enter the country before travel, the website is only available in Spanish.
Once in Uruguay, you need to self-isolate for 14 days and take a PCR test on day 15 in order to be able to leave self-isolation.
If you present coronavirus symptoms you have been asked to request home health care and not visit health centres and hospitals. Further information is also available from the Uruguayan Ministry of Health (in Spanish). If you contract or come into contact with a person in Uruguay who tests positive for coronavirus, you must self-isolate immediately and seek medical advice.
Testing for coronavirus in Uruguay
If you require a PCR or lateral flow test in Uruguay, there are companies who offer home visits or drive-through tests and normally return the results between 24-72 hours. You will have to pay for the test if it has not been ordered by a health professional. The British government does not endorse or recommend any of these services.
BIOFAST Análisis Clínicos (Montevideo)
Clinica Preventiva (Montevideo)
ATGen (Montevideo and Punta del Este)
Genodiagnosis (Montevideo)
Clinica San Fernando (Punta del Este)
Más Salud (Montevideo and interior)
See more information about self-isolation requirements if you have contracted coronavirus or been in contact with someone who has coronavirus.
The Uruguayan Embassy in London has suggested the following laboratories where you can order home tests:
CityDoc
Blue Horizon Blood Tests
The Independent General Practice
You should not use the NHS testing service to get a test in order to facilitate your travel to another country, you should arrange to take a private test.
The Uruguayan Government strongly recommends you download the Coronavirus App and activate blue tooth in order to be contacted using their track and trace approach.
Ferry service between Uruguay and Argentina
There is a limited ferry service between Uruguay and Argentina via Buquebus. You will be required to comply with the exit requirements from Argentina and entry requirements to Uruguay.
If you need further information about entry requirements, contact the local immigration authorities or the nearest Uruguayan embassy. You should also check with your airline or travel company for the latest information.
Regular entry requirements
Visas   
British passport holders visiting for up to 90 days don’t need a visa. For information on how to extend your stay or take up residency in Uruguay visit Dirección Nacional de Migración (in Spanish). For other information on entry regulations and living in Uruguay contact the nearest Uruguayan Embassy.
Passport validity
Your passport should be valid for at least the proposed duration of your stay. No additional period of validity beyond this is required.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are accepted for entry, airside transit and exit from Uruguay. The validity requirements are the same as for full validity British passports. If you plan to travel to Argentina or the US you will need a visa in your ETD. You must contact the nearest Embassies of those countries in order to apply.
Customs controls
Strict customs controls prohibit visitors from importing animal and dairy products, fruit and vegetables. All baggage is x-rayed on arrival and may be searched.
Travelling with children
There are various requirements for travelling out of Uruguay with British or dual national children under the age of 18 who live in Uruguay. The Ministry of Interior’s website has more information, or you can contact a law firm with expertise in this subject.
