At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Dengue fever is present in Uruguay. You should take steps to avoid being bitten by mosquitoes.
The sun can be extremely strong and UV levels are higher than in the UK.
Medical and dental treatment is expensive in Uruguay. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 911 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
Coronavirus
Cases of coronavirus (COVID-19) have been confirmed in Uruguay. The Uruguayan authorities have introduced measures to limit the spread of the virus.
The Uruguayan Ministry of Health requires all that all passengers arriving from China, South Korea, Italy, Japan, Singapore, Iran, France and Germany, and those who have had contact with a COVID-19 infected person self-isolate for a period of 14 days.
The Uruguayan government announced that it would ban all flights from Europe from Friday 20 March at 00:00, for an undefined period. The border with Argentina, including river crossings, is closed until further notice. The Buquebus ferry service has limited crossings available for those that need to return to, and can demonstrate, their country of residence.
Cruise ships are currently allowed to dock in Montevideo for resupplies and refuelling only. Passengers and crew are unable to disembark and cruise ship companies are working to redirect ships.
These regulations and travel restrictions are subject to change at short notice and you should check with your travel provider before your journey. You will need to check the Travel Advice for any country you will be transiting or visiting after or before Uruguay as there may be other restrictions in place. Further information is also available from the Uruguayan Ministry of Health (in Spanish). Please ensure that you are able to comply with the quarantine requirements before you travel.
