Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

There are still commercial options to return to the UK from Uruguay.
If you live in the UK and are currently visiting Uruguay, you’re strongly advised to return now by commercial means. Don’t risk getting stranded.
UK special charter flights will only operate for priority countries where commercial will only operate for priority countries where commercial flights are not possible. You should not assume that these flights will become available in Uruguay. Please do not contact the contracted travel management company if no flight is advertised here.
Flights
The French government is arranging a special flight back to Paris, departing on Wednesday 29 April. The flight will stop over in Asunción, Paraguay. The estimated cost of the ticket will be around 450 Euros per person. If you’re interested you should email the British Embassy at: consular.enquiriesmontevideo@fco.gov.uk. You will need to arrange onward travel to the UK or final destination.
Most commercial flights have stopped. The remaining commercial option to leave Uruguay is with Amaszonas who are running ad-hoc flights to Sao Paulo once or twice a week until 7 May. Connections to Europe (but not London) from Sao Paulo are still possible. Transit passengers cannot spend more than 24 hours in Sao Paulo. There are limited options for final transit from Europe to the UK. To book, please contact Amaszonas directly on 096 436 032.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Arrival in the UK
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Help and Support
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British Embassy on +598 2622 3630.
The Embassy cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone.
Further information
Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British Embassy on Twitter and Facebook.
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
