

Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Uruguay
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Uruguay, attacks cannot be ruled out.
Crime
Street crime in Montevideo
Street crime happens in Montevideo, including:
bag-snatching and pickpocketing
mugging and robbery (sometimes armed)
You should:
keep valuables, spare cash and credit cards in a safe
take care using ATMs – where possible use machines not on the street (for example, in shopping centres or banks)
avoid carrying lots of cash or wearing expensive jewellery
consider carrying cash and bankcards in separate pockets and only carry the money you need
Keep away from isolated or poorly lit areas at night and avoid walking downtown or in the port area alone, especially at night and on weekends.
Theft from cars in Montevideo
Criminals regularly break into cars left on the street. Try to park in paid car parks or well-lit, busy areas.
Always lock your car and avoid leaving valuables, luggage, personal documents and cash in the vehicle. Do not drive with bags or other valuables visible, especially on the front seat. Thieves can smash windows and grab valuables at traffic lights and junctions.
Crime outside Montevideo
Crime rates are generally lower in other parts of Uruguay, but still take usual precautions.
Laws and cultural differences
Money
You cannot always use credit cards outside of major towns. ATMs may not always accept UK debit cards.
Smoking and e-cigarette bans
It is illegal to smoke, including e-cigarettes, in enclosed public places such as restaurants, shopping centres and cinemas.
Marijuana
If they have registered with the Uruguayan government, it is legal for Uruguayan nationals or foreign nationals who have been resident for more than 2 years, to grow marijuana or buy it from registered pharmacies. However, it is illegal for tourists to do this.
LGBT+ travellers
Same-sex marriage is legal and there are anti-discrimination laws. Uruguay also recognises same-sex civil unions. It is common to see same-sex couples together in public, and hostility or discrimination towards LGBT+ visitors is rare.
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Outdoor activities and adventure tourism
Swimming safety
Many beaches in Uruguay have lifeguards from December to March, although times vary across the country. Take care when swimming in rivers or the Atlantic Ocean. There can be currents, rocks and sandbanks with sudden descents.
Beaches with lifeguards display coloured flags depending on the conditions:
green: good conditions for swimming
yellow: caution
red: danger – unsuitable conditions for swimming, rocks, uneven seabed or currents
red with green cross: danger – unsanitary conditions not suitable for swimming
black: thunderstorms – do not stay on the beach or near the coast
See water safety on holiday from the Royal Life Saving Society.
Transport risks
Road travel
If you are planning to drive in Uruguay, see information on driving abroad.
You can use a UK photocard driving licence to drive in Uruguay for the first 90 days after you arrive. If you still have a paper driving licence, you may need to update it to a photocard licence or get the correct version of the international driving permit (IDP) as well. After 90 days, you must get a Uruguayan driving licence.
Hire car companies often have stricter requirements for their customers, such as 2 years of driving experience and holding an IDP.  
Driving laws include:
wearing a seatbelt in the front and back seats – children under 12 must wear a seatbelt and be in a child or booster seat
having a first aid kit in your car
using dipped headlights during the day
Uruguay is introducing electronic-tag-only tolls (in Spanish) – these require prepayment or a linked credit card with an electronic sticker fixed to your car. Rental cars will already have electronic tags. The rental company will charge you for any unpaid tolls.   
Drink-driving is a serious offence  in Uruguay. If you are tested and found to have any alcohol in your system, you may get a fine and possible imprisonment, a driving suspension or a community work order.
You will also get a fine if you’re found driving under the influence of drugs.
 Road conditions
The main toll roads from Colonia del Sacramento to Montevideo and Punta del Este are in good condition and well-marked. However, serious road traffic accidents are common and often caused by poor road layout and speeding.
The standard of roads in the rest of Uruguay varies. Roads may suddenly deteriorate, with potholes and uneven road surfaces. Take extra care, especially in bad weather or at night.
Driving standards are poor and traffic is disorganised. Drivers may:
change lane and make unexpected turns without indicating
use hazard lights to stop in the middle of a lane, for example to drop someone off
ignore stop signs, traffic lights and speed limits
Motorbikes often go the wrong way down one-way streets – look both ways when crossing junctions.
For information on transport regulations, see the Montevideo municipality website (in Spanish).
Bus terminal
The main bus terminal for long distance journeys is Tres Cruces (in Spanish). There are visible security patrols. Keep a close eye on your belongings.
Extreme weather and natural disasters
The Uruguay government usually issues warnings and updates on extreme weather through news channels and the press. Sistema Nacional de Emergencias (in Spanish) coordinates crisis responses.
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards.
Flooding
Occasional heavy storms can last 2 to 3 days and cause severe damage and flooding. Check for severe weather warnings from the Uruguayan Institute of Meteorology (in Spanish). See UK Met Office forecasts for Uruguay.
Forest fires
Forest fires can break out in the hottest months from December to March in dry areas. Extinguish cigarettes and fires appropriately. Call 911 to contact the fire brigade.
