This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Uruguay as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Mandatory measures have been summarised below:
Teleworking for public offices
Closing of bars and restaurants from midnight with financial penalties for failure to comply
Strict compliance with current transport measures
Strict control of parties authorised by current protocol
Recommended measures
Voluntary homeworking is encouraged for private companies throughout the country
Only small social gatherings, with social distancing measures, facemasks and good ventilation, lasting no more than 2 hours
Avoid crowding in public spaces
In case of suspected COVID contact, voluntary quarantine and contact your GP
Gyms, sport clubs and amateur sports activities are open but with limited number of members
See full details on new measurements in Spanish.
Moving around in Uruguay
For information on entering Uruguay, see Entry Requirements
The population has been asked to maintain social distancing, including through working remotely, avoiding public transport and large gatherings, and staying at home as much as possible. Police officers will be urging people to avoid crowds.
Health
Citizens that present coronavirus symptoms have been asked to request home health care and not visit health centres and hospitals. Further information is also available from the Uruguayan Ministry of Health (in Spanish).
If you require a PCR test, there are companies who offer home visits or drive-through tests and normally return the results between 24-72 hours:
BIOFAST Análisis Clínicos
Clinica Preventiva
ATGen
Genodiagnosis
For contact details for English speaking doctors, visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Uruguay.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Uruguay
Wherever possible British nationals should aim to be vaccinated in the country where they live.
As information is available about the national vaccination programme, this page will be updated. Sign up to get email notifications.
The Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) is the UK authority responsible for assessing the safety, quality and efficacy of vaccines. It has authorised the Pfizer/BioNTech, Oxford/AstraZeneca and Moderna vaccines for temporary supply and use in the UK. Find out more about MHRA approval for these vaccines.
British nationals living overseas should seek medical advice from their local healthcare provider in the country where they reside. Information about vaccines used in other national programmes, including regulatory status, should be available from the local authorities. This list of Stringent Regulatory Authorities recognised by the World Health Organisation may also be a useful source of additional information. Find out more information about the COVID-19 vaccines on the World Health Organization COVID-19 vaccines page.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
