The Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) advise against all but essential travel to:
The whole of Uruguay based on the current assessment of COVID-19 risks
From 15 January, visitors arriving into England who have been in or transited through Uruguay in the previous 10 days will not be permitted entry. British and Irish nationals, and third country nationals with residence rights in the UK arriving in England from Uruguay will be required to quarantine in a hotel. Different rules apply for arrivals into Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland.
From 1 January onwards people with residence rights include: holders of Indefinite Leave to Remain; holders of existing leave to enter or remain (i.e those with biometric Residence permits) or an entry clearance/visa that grants such leave e.g. students, workers, etc (excluding visit visas); holders of EU Settlement Scheme (“EUSS”) leave; those who have rights of entry under the Withdrawal Agreements (including returning residents with a right of residence under the EEA Regulations and EEA frontier workers); family members of EEA nationals with rights under the Withdrawal Agreement.
Coronavirus: stay up to date
Find out how to return to the UK from Uruguay
See how to stay safely as a visitor if you cannot return
See coronavirus travel advice for guidance on international travel
Sign up for email alerts for Uruguay travel advice
Preparing for your return journey to the UK
If you’re returning to the UK from overseas, you will need to:
provide your journey and contact details before you travel
check if you need to self-isolate on your return
If your return journey to the UK transits another country, you should check whether it is subject to a travel ban or any other additional requirements. If so, contact your travel provider.
Only Uruguayan nationals and legal residents are allowed to enter Uruguay at present. Exemptions may be granted in special circumstances. For information on getting a coronavirus test, health declaration, pre-authorisation to enter and the Uruguayan Government’s Coronavirus App. See Entry requirements
For information about COVID-19 vaccines, see the Coronavirus page.
Around 20,000 British nationals visit Uruguay every year. Most visits are trouble-free.
Most criminal incidents occur in Montevideo, where opportunistic street crime is on the rise. Take care of your personal belongings at all times and be aware of your surroundings. Take particular care in and around the downtown and port areas. Don’t walk through these areas alone or at night; consider taking a taxi if necessary. See Crime
Carry a photocopy of your passport and keep the original document in a safe place.
There’s a zero tolerance limit for driving under the influence of alcohol. See Road travel
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Uruguay, attacks can’t be ruled out. See Terrorism
You can contact the emergency services by calling 911.
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.
Take out comprehensive travel and medical insurance before you travel.  
