Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Austria on the TravelHealthPro website.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Austria.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements. You should contact local authorities for information on testing facilities (available in German only).
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Austria
FFP2 face masks are compulsory on public transport and in taxis.
Public spaces and services
FFP2 facemasks are compulsory in shops, banks, bakeries, cable cars, museums, libraries, post offices, pharmacies, doctors’ offices and on public transport.
Christmas Markets, bars, restaurants, nightclubs, theatres and hotels are open only for people who are vaccinated or have recently recovered from COVID-19.
Regional measures, including rules on facemasks, may vary.
Austria will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 recovery and vaccination record. If you are travelling with a printed PDF proof of vaccination status, it must date from 1 November to ensure that the certificate can be scanned successfully, if domestic certification is required. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
Until 5 December 2021, you are considered vaccinated for 360 days after receiving a second or third dose of a recognised vaccine. From 6 December 2021, you are considered vaccinated for 270 days after receiving a second or third dose of a recognised vaccine.
Lockdown for unvaccinated people
Austria’s current “lockdown for unvaccinated people” means that rules within Austria are stricter than rules for entry at Austria’s borders. You are considered “fully vaccinated” for 270 days from the date of your second or third dose of a vaccine recognised by the Austrian authorities. If you are not fully vaccinated and cannot prove recent recovery from COVID, you cannot enter hotels, restaurants, bars, nightclubs, theatres, concerts, cinemas and shops that do not sell essential items. These rules do not apply to children aged under 12. Children aged 12 to 15 can present a PCR test not more than 48 hours old.
Testing positive for COVID-19 in Austria
If you get a positive PCR test result, you will have to self-isolate immediately. You should contact the health authorities for further instructions by calling 1450.
If you test positive with a lateral flow test, you will be treated as a “suspected case” and must self-isolate immediately, following the instructions of the health authorities. A lateral flow test will usually be followed up with a PCR test. If the PCR test is negative, you can leave self-isolation.
Options for self-isolation vary by region. In Vienna, a free hotel is available for visitors who test positive and have nowhere else to self-isolate.
A doctor can provide a letter allowing you to leave Austria by private car.
Healthcare in Austria
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Austria.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Austria
Wherever possible British nationals should aim to be vaccinated in the country where they live. We will update this page when the Government of Austria announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Austrian national vaccine programme started in December 2020 and is using a range of vaccines: Moderna, AstraZeneca and Janssen on the eligible population over 18 years of age, and Pfizer-BioNTech vaccines for those aged over 12 years of age. British nationals resident in Austria are eligible for vaccination. The Austrian authorities have issued guidance on how to register your interest in being vaccinated (only available in German). The guidance provides information and links on how you can register depending on which region of Austria you live in. Individuals over 80 years of age or who are in a high risk group can use the dedicated regional email addresses for further information. This service is separate to the need to register interest in being vaccinated. The Austrian government has also published a range of key documents in English.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in Austria, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
If you receive your COVID-19 vaccination in Austria, you can get an EU Digital COVID Certificate from the national authorities. The Certificate proves that you have been vaccinated against COVID-19, received a negative test result, or recovered from COVID-19. It will help facilitate your travel within the EU and, in some countries, you can use it to demonstrate your COVID-19 status to businesses and other organisations. For further information visit the European Commission’s EU Digital COVID Certificate page.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
