This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Austria set and enforce entry rules. For further information contact their embassy or consulate. You may also check with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and travel documents meet their requirements.
If you are travelling to Austria for work, read the guidance on visas and permits as the rules have changed since 1 January 2021.
Restrictions in response to coronavirus (COVID-19)
Lockdown for the unvaccinated
People who are not fully vaccinated must remain at home. The only valid reasons to leave the home include to avoid immediate danger or harm to oneself or one´s possessions, to seek medical attention (including vaccinations), for education or work purposes (though working from home is recommended where possible), to exercise for physical or mental health, and to purchase essentials such as food or medicine.
Entry to Austria
You can follow official Austrian advice on the following websites, though laws and English translations may lag announcements:
Die aktuellen Maßnahmen zum Coronavirus im Überblick (sozialministerium.at)
RIS - COVID-19-Einreiseverordnung 2021 - Bundesrecht konsolidiert, Fassung vom 31.12.2021 (bka.gv.at)
https://www.bmeia.gv.at/en/austrian-embassy-london/travelling-to-austria/coronavirus-covid-19-and-travel-abroad/
https://www.bmk.gv.at/en/service/entry-requirements.html
You should also check with your airline.
Although the UK has become a virus variant area with effect from 25 December 2021, travellers from the UK (and the Netherlands, Denmark and Norway) can still enter Austria without the need to quarantine provided they are either: triple vaccinated (with the third vaccination done at least 120 days after the second); or double vaccinated following recovery from COVID (where the first vaccination was at least 21 days after a positive test or antibodies); or double vaccinated with Johnson and Johnson. Additionally, travellers from the UK will need to present a negative PCR test no older than 48 hours at time of entry.
There are some exemptions, including for Austrian citizens, EU/EEA citizens and people with permission to reside in Austria, those with family emergencies, and those deemed to be in Austria’s national interest. Such travellers must be fully vaccinated, or have recovered from COVID within the last 180 days, complete a pre-travel clearance form not more than 72 hours before entry to Austria, and provide either a PCR test (not more than 72 hours old) or proof of a booster. They must also quarantine for ten days on arrival. There is the option to reduce quarantine from the fifth day at the earliest if a further PCR test produces a negative result.
You should check whether you also need to complete a pre-travel clearance form not more than 72 hours before entry to Austria.
Entry from Angola, Botswana, Eswatini, Lesotho, Malawi, Mozambique, Namibia South Africa, Zambia and Zimbabwe, and is also currently prohibited. This also applies to people who have been in those countries in the last 10 days.
If you are not fully vaccinated (see vaccination validity below for details), you are generally not permitted to enter Austria coming from any other country. There are exceptions to this, including residence or habitual abode in Austria or another EU member state, pregnancy, health issues that mean a vaccination is not possible or for some work reasons. See the official Austrian advice for what is required in these cases.
Vaccination validity
For the one-shot Johnson & Johnson vaccine, you must show that you received a booster no more than 270 days before arrival. For double-shot vaccines (e.g. AstraZeneca, Pfizer, Moderna), you must show that you received the second injection no more than 270 days before arrival.
If you received a booster more than 120 days after being fully immunised, this must not have been more than 270 days before arrival.
Demonstrating your COVID-19 status
Austria will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 recovery and vaccination record and proof of COVID-19 vaccination issued in the Crown Dependencies. If you are travelling with a printed PDF proof of vaccination status, it must date from after 1 November 2021 to ensure that the certificate can be scanned successfully. Austrian immigration officials will insist on QR codes, as provided by the UK COVID Pass, as proof of vaccinations and boosters, and have denied entry to those without this evidence. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of full vaccination.
The negative molecular biological test ((PCR, LAMP, TMA) must not be older than 48 hours at time of entry.
There are some exemptions for professional purposes, as set out in Austria’s entry requirements.
Children
Children up to the age of 12 do not have to provide a test result if travelling under supervision of an adult. If the accompanying adult has to self-isolate, the child must self-isolate too. The child can then leave self-isolation at the same time as the adult. If travelling unattended, the same requirements apply as for adults.
Children aged 12-15 who are not yet fully-vaccinated can take advantage of a “Holiday Ninja Pass” to access venues at ski-resorts. Find out how to apply online.
Transit Austria
If you are transiting through Austria without a stopover, you do not need a medical certificate or pre-travel clearance form if you can prove you are transiting.
Neighbouring countries may be restricting movement across borders, including for transit, and conducting health checks. Check the travel advice for any country you need to travel through.
Regular entry requirements
Visas
The rules for travelling or working in European countries changed on 1 January 2021:
you can to travel to countries in the Schengen area for up to 90 days in any 180-day period without a visa. This applies if you travel as a tourist, to visit family or friends, to attend business meetings, cultural or sports events, or for short-term studies or training
if you are travelling to Austria and other Schengen countries without a visa, make sure your whole visit is within the 90-day limit. Visits to Schengen countries within the previous 180 days before you travel count towards your 90 days
to stay longer, to work or study, for business or for other reasons, you will need to meet the Austrian government’s entry requirements. Check with the Austrian Embassy what type of visa and/or work permit you may need
if you stay in Austria with a residence permit or long-stay visa, this does not count towards your 90-day visa-free limit.
Any time you spent in Austria or other Schengen countries before 1 January 2021 does not count towards your 90-day visa-free limit.
At Austrian border control, you may need to queue in separate lanes from EU, EEA and Swiss citizens.
Check your passport is stamped if you enter or exit the Schengen area through Austria as a visitor. Border guards will use passport stamps to check you’re complying with the 90-day visa-free limit for short stays in the Schengen area. If relevant entry or exit stamps are not in your passport, border guards will presume that you have overstayed your visa-free limit.
You can show evidence of when and where you entered or exited the Schengen area, and ask the border guards to add this date and location in your passport. Examples of acceptable evidence include boarding passes and tickets.
You may also need to:
show a return or onward ticket
show you have enough money for your stay
If you are resident in Austria your passport should not be stamped. You should proactively show your proof of residence as well as your valid passport at Austrian border control. For further information, see our Living in Austria guide.
Passport validity
If you are planning to travel to an EU country (except Ireland), or Switzerland, Norway, Iceland, Liechtenstein, Andorra, Monaco, San Marino or Vatican City, you must meet the Schengen area rules.
Your passport must meet 2 requirements. It must be:
less than 10 years old on the day you enter (check the ‘date of issue’)
valid for at least 3 months after the day you plan to leave (check the ‘expiry date’)
We are asking the European Commission to clarify the 10-year rule. Their guidance for Schengen border guards may not be updated until the spring of 2022. Until then, for some Schengen countries your passport may need to be less than 10 years old during your whole visit, and the 3 months at the end of your visit may need to be within 10 years of your passport’s issue date.
Check both the issue date and the expiry date in your passport. If you renewed your passport early, extra months may have been added to its expiry date. This could affect the requirement for your passport to be less than 10 years old.
Contact your travel provider or embassy of the country you are visiting if you think that your passport does not meet both these requirements. Renew your passport if you need to.
Travelling with children
If you are a single parent, or travelling with a child who is not your own, you will need documentary evidence of parental responsibility and a letter of consent. For further information on exactly what will be required at immigration contact the Austrian Embassy in London.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents are accepted for entry, airside transit and exit from Austria.
