Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

There remain limited, indirect commercial options to return to the UK from Austria.
If you live in the UK and are currently visiting Austria, you’re strongly advised to return now by commercial means. Don’t run the risk of getting stranded.
UK special charter flights will only operate for priority countries where commercial options are not possible. You should not assume that these flights will become available in countries where commercial routes are operating. Please do not contact the contracted travel management company if no flight is advertised here.
See more information and advice about staying where you are if you cannot return to the UK.
Flights
Indirect flights from Vienna to the UK are currently being offered by Lufthansa (via Frankfurt) and KLM (via Amsterdam).
Please also consider options from Munich Airport in Germany.
Travel via Germany
If you plan to return to the UK via Germany, it is possible to transit through Germany if:
• You have evidence of your onward journey and;
• Do not show symptoms of illness that could indicate a coronavirus infection.
An example of ‘acceptable evidence’ would include a confirmed flight, ferry or Eurotunnel booking to the UK. If you are travelling through France, you should also complete a personal travel waiver certificate.
As with other forms of transport, many cross-Channel operators are operating substantially reduced services for passenger traffic. Passengers should check with their operator before departing, and may still be subject to severe disruption.
Check travel advice for any country that you will transit on the way back to the UK.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Your journey home
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Further information
Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British Embassy on Twitter.
