Coronavirus: stay up to date
This page will be updated with country-specific information for travellers to Austria. Sign up for email alerts.
See our coronavirus travel advice for guidance on travel during the COVID-19 outbreak, including on cruise ship travel.
There is an ongoing outbreak of coronavirus (COVID-19) in China, but cases have been confirmed in other countries, including Austria. The Austrian government has announced a range of restrictions on travel and events. Ski resorts will close on 15 March in Tyrol, Salzburg and Vorarlberg provinces. Accommodation in the ski resorts will close on 16 March. In Tyrol, the villages of Ischgl, Galtuer, See, and Kappl in the Patznaun Valley, and St Anton am Arlberg are under quarantine for the next 14 days. Tourists will be allowed to leave.
As of 16 March, there will be no direct air connections from Austria to Spain, France, and Switzerland. All direct flights and trains between Austria and Italy are also affected. You should contact your tour operator or airline for more information.
Restrictions are currently in place on the border with Italy. Anyone wishing to cross this border is required to hold a medical certificate. The certificate needs to include the result of molecular biological test and must be no more than four days old, in English, German or Italian. Non-stop transit from Italy through Austria remains possible. Some neighbouring countries are restricting movement across the border and conducting health checks. You should refer to travel advice for the country you are travelling from/to for information.
From 16 March, restaurants, bars and cafes across the country will only be open until 3pm. All shops, except supermarkets, banks, pharmacies, and postal services, will be closed.
See Health
The rules on travel to EU countries will stay the same until 31 December 2020. This page will be updated with country-specific information for travellers to Austria as things change. Sign up for email alerts and view the latest updates for UK nationals travelling to and living in Europe.
Around 980,000 British nationals visit Austria each year. Most visits are trouble-free.
If you’re living in or moving to Austria, visit our Living in Austria guide in addition to this travel advice.
It’s illegal in Austria to wear in a public place any clothing or object that conceals the face and makes facial features unrecognisable. See Local laws and customs
Immigration controls may temporarily be in place at some road and rail border crossing points with Germany, Hungary, Italy, Slovakia and Slovenia. You should carry your passport with you when crossing the border into or from Austria. Monitor local media and check with your transport provider or the Austrian Railways (OBB) website for updates.
There are complex driving laws in Austria, especially for caravan and motor-home owners. See Road travel
There’s a danger of avalanches in some areas, particularly in periods of heavy snowfall. Even during summer time this danger still exists for snow covered areas. See Skiing
Terrorist attacks in Austria can’t be ruled out. You should be vigilant and follow the advice of local authorities. See Terrorism
Don’t carry your passport around with you. Leave it in your hotel safe and carry a photocopy instead. See Local laws and customs
If you need to contact the emergency services call 112.
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.
The Overseas Business Risk service offers information and advice for British companies operating overseas on how to manage political, economic, and business security-related risks.
You should take out comprehensive travel and medical insurance before you travel. For information on the European Health Insurance Card see Health.
