Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Macao on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
Commercial flights are currently only operating between Macao and cities in Mainland China.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Macao.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Macao to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Public spaces and services
As of 3 May, Macao has introduced a QR three-colour code system, which replaces the previous digital health declaration needed at border checkpoints and for entering public administration premises, casinos and other venues. The new code requires its registrants to confirm whether they have been in COVID-19 quarantine at home or in a government-run facility and consists of three colours: red, yellow, green. Visitors receiving red or yellow codes may be subject to testing, hospitalisation or restrictions on their movements.
Bus services between Hong Kong and Macao, using the Hong Kong-Zhuhai-Macao Bridge, recommenced a limited service on 8 May. All passengers wanting to board a shuttle bus to cross the bridge departing from Hong Kong to Macao must present a certificate confirming that they have tested negative for COVID-19 within seven days of their departure. Contact the service provider for the latest schedule.
Healthcare in Macao
For contact details of doctors, visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Macao.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Macao
Wherever possible British nationals should aim to be vaccinated in the country where they live. As further information is available about the national vaccination programme, this page will be updated. Sign up to get email notifications.
The Macao SAR Government’s national vaccination programme began on 9 February 2021. British Nationals resident in Macao are eligible to take part. You should visit the Government of Macao SAR’s national vaccination programme website for further details and information on how to book an appointment.
The Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) is the UK authority responsible for assessing the safety, quality and efficacy of vaccines. It has authorised the Pfizer/BioNTech, Oxford/AstraZeneca and Moderna vaccines for temporary supply and use in the UK. Find out more about MHRA approval for these vaccines.
British nationals living overseas should seek medical advice from their local healthcare provider in the country where they reside. Information about vaccines used in other national programmes, including regulatory status, should be available from the local authorities. This list of Stringent Regulatory Authorities recognised by the World Health Organisation may also be a useful source of additional information. Find out more information about the COVID-19 vaccines on the World Health Organization COVID-19 vaccines page.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
The Macao government website provides further information.
