This page has information on travelling to Macao. Check what you must do to return to the UK.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport from the UK, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Macao set and enforce entry rules.
All travellers
Travellers arriving in Macao, who are not residents of Macao, Hong Kong, Taiwan or mainland China, will be denied entry. There are a small number of exemptions for certain categories of traveller, including non-resident workers.
For information on visa requirements for entry to Macao and mainland China, see Visas section.
All travellers must present proof of vaccination before boarding transport to Macao. The last dose must have been administered at least 14 days prior to arrival, but within the last 7 months. Travellers under the age of 12 are exempt, as are those with a medical certificate of unsuitability for COVID-19 vaccination.
Residents of Hong Kong, Taiwan or mainland China who have travelled overseas in the 21 days prior to their arrival will also be denied entry.
Testing / screening on arrival
Macao has introduced a QR three-colour code system, which replaces the previous digital health declaration needed at border checkpoints and for entering public administration premises, casinos and other venues. The new code requires its users to confirm whether they have been in COVID-19 quarantine at home or in a government-run facility and consists of three colours: red, yellow, green. Visitors receiving red or yellow codes may be subject to testing, hospitalisation or restrictions on their movements.
Quarantine requirements
Residents of Hong Kong, Taiwan or Mainland China, who have visited Hong Kong or Taiwan 21 days prior to arriving in Macao, must hold a certificate of a negative result for COVID-19 nucleic acid test performed within the past 24 hours and will need to go to a designated place for up to 14 days of medical observation on arrival in Macao.
Residents of Hong Kong, Taiwan or Mainland China, who have visited Mainland China 14 days prior to arriving in Macao, must hold a certificate of a negative result or a certificate of specimen collection for COVID-19 nucleic acid test issued within the past 7 days. The Macao Special Administrative Region Government has placed further restrictions on arrivals from specific locations within Mainland China.
Residents of Macao returning from most foreign countries (including the UK) must hold a certificate of a negative test result for COVID-19 nucleic acid test performed within the past 48 hours and will need to undergo up to 14 days of medical observation. Additional pre-departure tests are required for travellers from certain countries.
You can find further details on quarantine requirements from the Macao Government Tourism Office.
If you’re fully vaccinated
Regardless of vaccination status, travellers arriving in Macao, who are not residents of Macao, Hong Kong, Taiwan or mainland China, will be denied entry. There are a small number of exemptions for certain categories of traveller, including non-resident workers. You can find further information by visiting the Macao Government Tourism Board website.
All travellers must present proof of vaccination before boarding transport to Macao.
Proof of vaccination status
All travellers must present proof of vaccination before boarding transport to Macao. Paper certificates issued by the Macao Health Bureau and Hong Kong Department for Health are accepted as proof of vaccination. The last dose must have been administered at least 14 days prior to arrival, but within the last 7 months. Travellers under the age of 12 are exempt, as are those with a medical certificate of unsuitability for COVID-19 vaccination.
If you’re not fully vaccinated
Regardless of vaccination status, travellers arriving in Macao, who are not residents of Macao, Hong Kong, Taiwan or mainland China, will be denied entry. There are a small number of exemptions for certain categories of traveller, including non-resident workers.
All travellers must present proof of vaccination before boarding transport to Macao.
If you’ve had COVID-19 in the past year
You must hold a certificate of recovery proving at least two months have passed since the onset of disease, or since the first positive test to be allowed entry into Macao.
Children and young people
Children aged 12 or under are exempt from vaccination requirements on entry to Macao. For all other requirements, children aged 17 and under are subject to the same rules as adult travellers.
Transiting Macao
Macao’s mainland border crossing points have resumed normal service. Macao’s Barrier Gate checkpoint at the Zhuhai land border is operating between 6am and 1am daily. The Macao-Zhuhai checkpoint on the Hong Kong-Zhuhai-Macao Bridge is also operating between 8am and 10pm. Private cars are allowed to access these two border crossings.
Transit services are suspended at Macao International Airport.
The Macao-Hong Kong checkpoint on the Hong Kong-Zhuhai-Macao Bridge is now operating between 10am to 8pm. All other crossings between Hong Kong and Macao have ceased until further notice.
Exemptions
Application procedures for Foreign Nationals seeking exemption from entry requirements can be found on the Macao Government Tourism Office’s website.
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
Passport validity
Your passport should be valid for a minimum period of one month from the date of entry into Macao. If you are staying longer than one month your passport must be valid for the duration of your visit.
Visas
Although Macao is now part of the People’s Republic of China, it remains a Special Administrative Region with its own immigration controls. You can stay in Macao for up to 6 months without a visa. If you intend to work in Macao you must get a visa before arrival. Contact the Macao Immigration Department.
Visas for mainland China
If you intend to travel to mainland China via Macao using a British passport you must get a Chinese visa before arrival at the border. Failure to do so could result in a fine and possible detention by the mainland Chinese authorities. If you’re entering Macao via mainland China and leaving again via the mainland you’ll need to have a double or multiple entry visa to re-enter mainland China.
There are reports of greater scrutiny from mainland authorities at border crossings into Macao at this time, including checks on travellers’ electronic devices.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are accepted for entry, airside transit and exit from Macao.
Returning to the UK
All passengers departing from Macao must present a certificate confirming that they have tested negative for COVID-19 within 24 hours days of their departure.
Check what you must do to return to the UK.
