At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Coronavirus
There is an ongoing outbreak of coronavirus in China. The virus originated in Wuhan City, Hubei Province, but cases have been confirmed in other parts of China, including Macao.
The Macao government has announced a series of measures designed to prevent the spread of the virus:
Visitors to Macao may be asked to provide details of their travel 14 days prior to arrival.
From 27 January 2020, visitors who have been to Hubei province, China, within 14 days of their arrival will be denied entry to Macao unless they present a medical certificate confirming that they are free of infection from the novel coronavirus. Non-Macao residents who may have been exposed to the coronavirus may not be allowed to enter Macao.
Macao residents who are currently in areas affected by the virus are asked to go into 14 days of self-imposed isolation upon return to Macao to prevent the spread of infection.
You should comply with any additional screening measures put in place by the local authorities. The Macao government website provides further information.
If you’re returning to the UK from Macao, consult the latest advice from the Department of Health and Social Care on actions you should take if you develop symptoms on your return.
Further advice on coronavirus is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
Medical treatment
Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 999 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
Health risks
Dengue fever is common in Macao. You should take precautions against mosquito bites.
