There remain commercial options to return to the UK from Macao.
If you live in the UK and are currently visiting Macao, you’re strongly advised to return now by commercial means. Don’t run the risk of getting stranded.
UK special charter flights will only operate for priority countries where commercial flights are not possible. You should not assume that these flights will become available in countries where commercial routes are operating. Please do not contact the contracted travel management company if no flight is advertised here.
Flights
There are limited indirect flights available from Macao International Airport. You should check that the country in which you plan to transit allows you to do so. Airlines are likely to further reduce or suspend flights at short notice. Check with your airline or tour operator for the latest updates.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Travel via Hong Kong
The government of the Macao Special Administrative Region (SAR) has announced that, from 17 June until 16 July, it will launch a special ferry service between Taipa Ferry Terminal and Hong Kong International Airport to facilitate the return to Macao of Macao residents currently overseas, and allow those located in Macao due to COVID-19 to return to their place of origin.
The ferry service will be provided by TurboJET and Cotai Water Jet. Inbound daily services to Taipa Ferry Terminal will depart at 2pm and 11pm. Those outbound to Hong Kong International Airport will depart at 9am and 7pm.
If you’re a Macao resident currently overseas and wish to use the special ferry service, you must have flight tickets to Hong Kong International Airport and arrive there via services landing between the hours of 4am and 10pm. If you’re a Macao resident and wish to use the ferry service, you must register online 48 hours prior to the scheduled departure of your flight.
During airport check-in overseas, you must present to airline staff:
your travel booking
the document you will use to enter Macao (i.e. a Macao ID card or Macao SAR passport);
the confirmation letter of online registration for the ferry service.
Once aircraft boarding procedures are completed, passengers must take a digital photograph of the boarding pass and send it to (853) 6233 1518 via the WhatsApp message service. If you experience difficulties in completing the relevant procedures, you should contact the government’s 24-hour travel hotline on (853) 2833 3000.
If you wish to take the outbound ferry to Hong Kong International Airport, you can only do so if you are joining a flight operated by certain designated airlines (see below), and where the flight departs between the hours of 12pm to 3am inclusive, during the period of 17 June to 16 July inclusive. Passengers wishing to use the airport-bound ferries on 16 July can only do so if their flight departs before 11:59pm that day.
Designated airlines:
Air France (AF)
Air Japan (NQ)
All Nippon Airways (NH)
Cathay Dragon Airways (KA)
Cathay Pacific Airways (CX)
China Airlines (CI)
China Eastern Airlines (MU)
EVA Airways (BR)
Garuda Indonesia (GA)
Hong Kong Express (UO)
Hong Kong Airlines (HX)
Japan Airlines (JL)
KLM Royal Dutch Airlines (KL)
Lanmei Airlines (LQ)
Mandarin Airlines(AE)
Shanghai Airlines (FM)
Thai Airways (TG)
Thai Smile Airways (WE)
If you wish to travel with Singapore Airlines and Emirates, you should enquire with the ferry companies about your eligibility to do so.
Use of the ferry service may not be permitted in conjunction with certain flights bound for the United States of America or for other journeys with further connecting flights. You should enquire with the operating ferry companies for further details.
Passengers unable to board a flight due to its cancellation or for other reasons will be allowed to take the next available ferry back to Macao, provided they comply with Macao epidemic-control measures in place.
All other crossings and commercial bus routes between Hong Kong and Macao have ceased until further notice. While the Hong Kong-Zhuhai-Macao bridge will remain open for some private vehicles between 6am and 10pm, only a limited number of vehicles with specific licenses are permitted to use the crossing.
All persons arriving from or having stayed in Macao will be subject to mandatory 14 day quarantine upon arrival in Hong Kong, and non-Hong Kong residents travelling to Hong Kong from Macao will be denied entry to Hong Kong if they have been to any overseas country/territory in the past 14 days. For further information, see Hong Kong travel advice.
See more information and advice about staying where you are if you cannot return to the UK.
Travel via China
China is suspending the entry of foreign nationals into China from 28 March, including those with existing visas. The only exemptions will be diplomatic, service, courtesy or C visas. Only those with a visa issued on or after 27 March will be allowed to enter China. For full information, see China travel advice.
Your journey home: re-entering the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK. You:
need to provide your journey and contact details up to 48 hours before you’re due to arrive in the UK
are not allowed to leave the place you’re staying for the first 14 days you’re in the UK except in very limited situations (known as ‘self-isolating’)
See also the list of people who are exempt from the border rules.
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) also provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
If you cannot leave Macao
See advice on staying in Macao during coronavirus
Further information
Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British Consulate-General on Facebook and Twitter.
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
