

Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. You should remain vigilant at all times.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Macao
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Macao, attacks cannot be ruled out.
Crime
Protecting your belongings
Crime levels are low but pickpocketing and other street crime does happen. You should take particular care:
of passports, credit cards and money in crowded areas
of your belongings when checking out of hotels
when visiting casinos late at night
Contact the Tourism Crisis Management Office on (853) 2833 3000 (24-hour hotline) for immediate and general tourism advice in English.     
Laws and cultural differences
Safeguarding National Security Law  
You could face criminal charges if you take part in activities that the authorities believe threaten national security. This includes activities in and outside the Macao SAR, including the UK. The Safeguarding National Security Law (NSL) outlines the types of activities that are illegal, such as preparing for or carrying out treason, secession or subversion against the central government. The police have the right to collect evidence from individuals’ social media and private communications to gather evidence of NSL crimes.   
Illegal drugs and prison sentences
Do not become involved with drugs. Possession of drugs can lead to imprisonment.
Using cameras in secure areas
Do not take photographs of military installations.
Transport risks
Road travel
If you are planning to drive in Macao, see information on information on driving abroad.
You can drive in Macao with a Hong Kong, Chinese or Portuguese driving licence.
If you are using a UK driving licence, you need a 1949 international driving permit (IDP) as well. You cannot buy an IDP outside the UK, so get one before you travel.
If you still have a paper driving licence, you must update it to a photocard licence.
You will also need to register to drive in Macao for more than 14 days.
Car hire
Some car hire companies have additional requirements, such as at least a year of driving experience and a minimum age of 21.
Unlicensed taxis
Uber is illegal in Macao. The Macao police will take action against drivers and passengers of unlicensed taxi services, including Uber.
Extreme weather and natural disasters
Typhoons
Typhoon season normally runs from April to October. Typhoons very occasionally hit Macao and could cause flooding and landslides. Public offices will shut down when the ‘Typhoon 8’ signal is issued. Be aware of local warning signals issued in advance and follow advice issued by the local authorities.
Monitor weather updates from the World Meteorological Organization and the Macao Meteorological and Geophysical Bureau.
Read more advice on what to do if you are caught up in extreme weather or natural hazards.
