Coronavirus guidance is being updated.
Read the Prime Minister’s statement for the latest information.

This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Macao as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Macao to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Macao
For information on entering Macao, see Entry Requirements
As of 3 May, Macao has introduced a QR three-colour code system, which replaces the previous digital health declaration required at border checkpoints and for entering public administration premises, casinos and other venues. The new code requires its registrants to confirm whether they have been in COVID-19 quarantine at home or in a government-run facility and consists of three colours: red, yellow, green. Visitors receiving red or yellow codes may be subject to testing, hospitalisation or restrictions on their movements.
Health
For contact details for doctors, visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Macao.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Macao, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
The Macao government website provides further information.
