This travel advice covers the Macao Special Administrative Region (SAR). For mainland China, see travel advice for China
Travel to Macao is subject to entry restrictions
All travellers who are not residents of Macao, Hong Kong, Taiwan or mainland China will be denied entry to Macao
All air passengers, including Macao residents, must get a certificate confirming that they have tested negative for coronavirus within the last 7 days before they are allowed to board their flight to Macao
Ferry crossings and land border crossings between Hong Kong and Macao are also affected
All air and ferry passengers departing from Macao must present a certificate confirming that they have tested negative for COVID-19 within seven days of their departure.
Travellers from Macao to Guangdong must present negative test results for COVID-19 issued by either Taipa Maritime Terminal or the Conde de Sao Januario Hospital only. Travellers presenting negative results from any other hospital or clinic will not be allowed to cross the border.
See Entry requirements for more information before you plan to travel.
Preparing for your return journey to the UK
Macao is on the amber list for entering England. Check what you must do to enter England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
If your return journey to the UK transits another country, you should check whether it is subject to a travel ban or any other additional requirements. If so, contact your travel provider.
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
If you’re planning travel to Macao, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) guidance on foreign travel insurance.
For information about COVID-19 vaccines, see the Coronavirus page
The typhoon season in Macao normally runs from April to October. You should monitor the progress of approaching storms and follow the advice of the local authorities. See Natural disasters
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Macao, attacks can not be ruled out. See Terrorism
Crime levels are low, but you should take sensible precautions against pick pocketing and other street crime. See Crime
Macao, like other parts of China, does not recognise dual nationality. If you have both British and Chinese nationality you may be treated as a Chinese citizen by local authorities, even if you enter Macao on your British passport. If this is the case, the British Consulate-General in Hong Kong may not be able to offer you consular assistance. The FCDO has published guidance on nationality in China. If you have formally renounced Chinese citizenship, you should carry evidence that you have done so. See Local laws and customs
In 2018, 58,303 British nationals visited Macao. Most visits are trouble-free.  
Consular support may be limited in Macao. However, the British Consulate-General in Hong Kong can provide consular support to British nationals.
