Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on the risk from COVID-19 for Bangladesh on the TravelHealthPro website.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
International commercial passenger flights are operating with restrictions. You should check with airlines to confirm what flight options are available. Flight schedules are subject to change at short notice and you should monitor travel arrangements closely.
In addition to the COVID-19 test requirements for entry (see Entry requirements), the government also require passengers to carry a negative test certificate for COVID-19, issued by a government authorised facility, on departure from Bangladesh. Airlines may have slightly different requirements and you should confirm that your test also meets the specific requirements of your airline in advance of your departure.
If your journey to or from Bangladesh includes a transit stop you may need to meet separate COVID-19 certificate requirements for that country. You should check the requirements for all locations in your journey, both transit and final destinations, before travelling. For further guidance you should check with your airline and visit the travel advice pages for countries on your route.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Bangladesh.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements. You should contact local authorities for information on testing facilities. You should check travel provider requirements.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Moving around in Bangladesh
Public transport is operating but as part of COVID-19 measures, the Government of Bangladesh has introduced service restrictions. Check local guidance and media reports for detail of the latest travel restrictions, which may come into force at short notice.
You should check with airlines to confirm what domestic flight options are available. Restrictions may come into force at short notice.
Face masks must be worn at all times when moving in and around Bangladesh. You should also wear a mask at home if anyone in your household is displaying COVID-19 symptoms.
You should follow all public health regulations. Anyone not complying with these requests risks legal action.
Businesses and services
Offices and banking services are permitted to open. Emergency services including hospitals remain open. All shopping malls, markets and shops can open, with controlled hours, closing by 8pm. At short notice local authorities may lock down buildings, streets and areas in order to control the spread of Coronavirus.
Accommodation
Hotels and guesthouses may be affected by the public health measures. Check with your travel or accommodation provider.
Healthcare in Bangladesh
If you’re running out of medication and need to get more, you should visit the nearest pharmacy or ask for assistance from family/friends or your accommodation provider. If the same medication you’re on is not available, consult a local doctor for a Bangladeshi alternative or go to the nearest hospital.
You should carry any medical papers or prescriptions and be prepared to answer questions if stopped by law enforcement authorities.
In case of any emergency, you can dial the Bangladesh National Emergency Hotline - 999 from your mobile/telephone for any assistance whilst in Bangladesh.
For contact details of English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Bangladesh.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Bangladesh
This page will be updated as information is available about how you can get a vaccination in Bangladesh. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in Bangladesh, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
If you need urgent consular assistance, you should contact your local British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephones numbers are available 24/7.
