This page has information on travelling to Bangladesh. Check what you must do to return to the UK.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport from the UK, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Bangladesh set and enforce entry rules.
All travellers
You will need a visa to enter Bangladesh (see below for information on visas).
Passengers arriving from the UK will need the following documentation:
A medical certificate indicating a negative PCR test taken within 48 hours prior to departure (for passengers aged 12 or over). See information on getting a test before entry.
Confirmation of your vaccination status, with vaccination course completed 14 days before entry, if you are relying on a completed COVID-19 vaccination course for quarantine exemptions (see ‘If you’re not fully vaccinated’ requirements)
A completed Health Declaration Form and Passenger Locator Form provided by cabin crew.
If you’re fully vaccinated
If you’re fully vaccinated and travelling from the UK you can enter Bangladesh without needing to quarantine, provided your vaccination course was completed no less than 14 days prior to arrival.
You may be subjected to additional health screening measures at the airport, including antigen testing.
You should not use the NHS testing service to get a test in order to facilitate your travel to an-other country. You should arrange to take a private test.
Proof of vaccination status
You must present proof that you have been fully vaccinated to enter Bangladesh, with vaccination course completed no less than 14 days before entry to be exempt from quarantine requirements.
You can use the UK’s proof of COVID-19 vaccination record to demonstrate your vaccination status when entering Bangladesh.
If you’re not fully vaccinated
Arrivals from the UK who are unable to provide proof of vaccination, or proof that their vaccination course was completed at least 14 days prior to arrival, are required to complete a 14 day period of home quarantine.
Country specific quarantine regimes, apply to arrivals as follows:
Passengers who have visited, or transited Botswana, Eswatini, Ghana, Lesotho, Namibia, South Africa and Zimbabwe, within the preceding 14 days are required to complete mandatory 14 day quarantine at a government nominated quarantine hotel upon arrival in Bangladesh, regardless of vaccination status.
Passengers whose journey originates from, or who have visited within the preceding 14 days, Armenia, Bulgaria, Estonia, Georgia, Latvia, Lithuania, Moldova, Mongolia, the Palestinian Occupied Territories, Romania, Serbia, Slovenia and Ukraine are also required to quarantine. However, those that can offer evidence of having completed a WHO approved vaccination course at least 14 days prior to their arrival in Bangladesh, are able to quarantine at home for seven days. Those that are unable to provide this evidence are required to complete a period of quarantine at a government nominated quarantine hotel. This quarantine can be completed by testing negative for COVID-19 on the seventh day. You should note that transiting the countries in this paragraph, without exiting the airport, does not qualify as a visit.
Passengers that are subject to mandatory quarantine hotel stay should confirm their stay prior to travel. Proof of a quarantine hotel reservation will be required at airport check-in.
In all circumstances, anyone displaying COVID-19 symptoms on arrival will be transferred to a designated government hospital where their quarantine period will be assessed and deter-mined.
In all circumstances, people staying in a government approved hotel, government facility or hospital will need to cover the costs of those stays and any necessary COVID-19 tests.
The Bangladesh authorities may retain passports of any passengers in quarantine and will re-turn them at the end of the quarantine period.
Passengers with a No Visa Required certificate (an arrangement for foreign nationals of Bangladeshi heritage) arriving in Bangladesh without a medical certificate indicating they are COVID-19 negative, or such passengers who display symptoms, will be transferred to a government facility where their quarantine period will be assessed and determined.
Children and young people
Children 17 and under are able to follow the same quarantine regime that applies to those family members they are travelling with, regardless of their vaccination status.
If you’re transiting through Bangladesh
Transiting is when you pass through one country on the way to your final destination.
For those planning to transit through Bangladesh on your way to another country, visas for Bangladesh are not required for those remaining airside at the airport. However, we have been unable to confirm that COVID-19 measures do not apply, and we would recommend meeting the Government of Bangladesh’s COVID-19 requirements. For example, you may wish to take a negative PCR test within 48 hours and familiarise yourself with any airline requirements, together with those of your final destination.
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
If you are visiting Bangladesh, your passport should be valid for 6 months when applying for a visa to visit Bangladesh.
Check with your travel provider to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Foreign nationals working in Bangladesh must get an Income Tax Clearance Certificate or an Income Tax Exemption Certificate before each departure from Bangladesh. Full details are available on the Bangladesh Board of Revenue website.
Visas
You will need a visa to enter Bangladesh. You can get a visa from the Bangladesh High Commission in London. In some limited circumstances visas may be available on arrival, which includes categories of foreign investors and those of Bangladeshi heritage. We strongly recommend that you confirm the availability of such visa arrangements, including documentation requirements, with the Bangladeshi authorities in advance of travel.
Foreign nationals currently in Bangladesh whose visas have expired have the option to extend their visa. There is a visa extension fee for this service, in addition to a penalty fee for overstaying. Visa extensions are available at the Department of Immigration and Passport of Bangladesh.
If you intend to use Bangladesh as a hub to visit other countries in the region, make sure you get a multiple entry visa. If you’re intending to work in Bangladesh make sure you get the correct visa before you travel.
If you have had your passport renewed in Bangladesh, you will need a new visa. The Bangladesh Immigration & Passport Department (telephone: 880 2 8159878 / 8123788 / 8123323) is able to issue an ‘exit visa’ or a ‘no visa required’ stamp. Officers there are unlikely to speak English, so you may need an interpreter.
Make sure you have an entry stamp placed in your passport on entry into Bangladesh otherwise you may have problems on departure.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are accepted for entry, airside transit and exit from Bangladesh. Holders of an ETD must apply for the appropriate Bangladesh visa to enter Bangladesh.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
Returning to the UK
Check what you must do to return to the UK.
