Local laws reflect the fact that Bangladesh is a mainly Islamic country. You should respect local traditions, customs, laws and religions at all times and be aware of your actions to ensure that they do not offend other cultures or religious beliefs, especially during the holy month of Ramadan or if you intend to visit religious areas. See Travelling during Ramadan.
You should dress modestly to avoid causing offence. Women should cover their shoulders and wear long skirts or trousers.
If you’re a dual British-Bangladeshi national you will be considered by the Bangladesh government to be a Bangladeshi citizen, even if you don’t hold, or have never held, a Bangladeshi passport and were born outside Bangladesh. This may limit the assistance the British government can offer you. For further information on Bangladesh nationality, check with the Bangladesh High Commission.
Violating local laws may result in a jail sentence, served in a local prison. Delays and inefficiency in the judicial system can result in long detentions until court hearings eventually take place. Prison conditions are far below UK standards.
A British national under detention in Bangladesh has a right to request that the British High Commission be notified about their situation and gain access to them. In most circumstances this right does not extend to those with dual nationality.
There are severe penalties for possession and trafficking of illegal drugs. Some drugs-related offences are punishable by the death penalty or life imprisonment.
Carry a photocopy of the data page and Bangladeshi visa from your passport at all times, plus copies of other important travel documents. Local officials may ask you for proof of identity. Keep the originals separately, and leave copies with friends or relatives in the UK.
Family law in Bangladesh is very different from UK law. You should take particular care when, for example, child custody becomes an issue.
LGBT+
Same-sex relations are illegal. See our information and advice page for the LGBT+ community before you travel.
Property disputes
The British High Commission has no authority to intervene on behalf of British nationals of Bangladeshi origin with regard to land or property problems. The High Commission can provide a list of local lawyers.
There is an Expatriate Help Cell of Bangladesh Police, which offers services to expatriates including dual nationals/British Bangladeshis:
Mobile: +88 01320001435 Email: expatriatehelp@police.gov.bd
