!
Warning
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to Bangladesh.

This section has safety advice for regions of Bangladesh. It only covers regions where FCDO has specific advice.
You should also read FCDO’s overall travel advice and safety and security advice.
Chittagong Hill Tracts
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to the Chittagong Hill Tracts, an area made up of the districts of:
Rangamati
Khagrachari
Bandarban
Chittagong City and other districts of Chittagong Division are not included in the travel warning.
Security in the Chittagong Hill Tracts is a cause for concern. There are regular reports of violence and other criminal activity, particularly in more remote areas.
If you plan to visit the Chittagong Hill Tracts, you must give the Bangladesh authorities 10 days’ notice.
Contact:
Chittagong Divisional Commissioner’s Office (Telephone: 031 615 247)
Chittagong Deputy Commissioner’s Office (Telephone: 031 619 996)
Myanmar border
There are ongoing reports of increasing violence and fighting in Myanmar (Burma), close to the Bangladesh border. The situation in border areas near Myanmar remains unpredictable, and may deteriorate at short notice. You should monitor local news outlets closely. 
Continuing violence has resulted in hundreds of thousands of Rohingya refugees crossing into the south-east of Bangladesh.
Most of the refugees are in the subdistricts of Ukhia and Teknaf in the southern part of Cox’s Bazar district. The Bangladesh authorities control access to these areas.
There are regular reports of insecurity, protests and violence.
Teknaf has the highest level of drug-related gang violence across Bangladesh, including:
murders and shooting incidents between the gangs and police
drug seizures, including large amounts of yaba (a mixture of caffeine and methamphetamine)
kidnappings
Violence has increased in the refugee camps. There is no sign that foreign nationals are being targeted.
If you plan to visit Ukhia and Teknaf, you should:
use caution
consult the local authorities – you may need permission to travel there
work through humanitarian agencies recognised by the Bangladesh government if you want to provide assistance
India border
Take particular care near the border with India. There are regular reports of individuals being killed for illegally crossing the border. There are occasional skirmishes between the Indian and Bangladeshi border guards, including exchanges of gunfire.
