Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

There are currently no commercial options available to return to the UK from Bangladesh, due to flight restrictions announced by the Government of Bangladesh. Biman Airlines has extended the suspension of its domestic and international flights, including from the UK until 30 April. China Southern and US Bangla airlines are still operating flights to China, but these are for Chinese nationals only.
UK special flights
On Wednesday 29 April, Friday 1 May, Sunday 3 May, Tuesday 5 May and Thursday 7 May the UK is operating five special flights from Dhaka to London for British tourists, short term visitors and their direct dependants to return to the UK. If you’re currently in Sylhet, you will also have the option of booking a domestic transfer from Sylhet to Dhaka ahead of the flights on Wednesday 29 April, Friday 1 May, Tuesday 5 May and Thursday 7 May. There will be no domestic transfer option available ahead of the flight to the UK on Sunday 3 May.
These flights cost £600 per person, whether you are departing from Sylhet or Dhaka
To be eligible to take these flights, you must be normally resident in the UK. Your eligibility will be checked before your tickets are issued.
If you wish to travel, please register your interest on the CTM website as soon as possible. If you have already registered on the CTM website you do not need to register again. You will be contacted by our travel partner CTM. Seats on these flights will be assigned to British nationals and their families who have already registered. We will continue to prioritise the most vulnerable for these flights.
You should be prepared to travel at short notice and on a flight allocated to you. It will not be possible to change your travel date. Tickets will not be on sale at the airport. Do not travel to the airport without a confirmed ticket.
The UK Government’s focus is on bringing home stranded British nationals, and foreign nationals travelling with close family members who are British nationals. We are currently prioritising individuals in these categories for flights. Vulnerable non-British UK residents with Indefinite Leave to Remain, and other foreign nationals, may only be accommodated if there is sufficient capacity. Your eligibility for flights, including your UK address, will be checked before your tickets are issued.
Contacting CTM
If you are unable to complete this online form and want to return to the UK from Bangladesh, please send a SMS text message containing ONLY your full name to +44 786 009 3014 and someone from our team will get in touch to assist you. Some international charges may apply.
How to book
To make a booking, you will need:
full passport and contact details for each traveller you are registering
your UK home address and postcode
your means of payment, such as credit or debit card details
If you cannot pay the cost of the ticket, please send a SMS text message containing ONLY your full name to +44 786 009 3014 and someone from our team will get in touch to assist you. Some international charges may apply. If you have exhausted all other options available to you for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan to cover the cost of the ticket. You would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. CTM is authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
You may find it helpful to read our guide to eligibility and the booking process for special charter flights.
Travel to the airport
Due to government restrictions public transport has been suspended. When travelling to Dhaka or Sylhet Airport, carry printed copies of your flight confirmation and have your passport easily to hand. Once your booking is confirmed, you will also be issued with an official British High Commission document to show the authorities at any check points should that be necessary.
Arrival in the UK
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Future options
The British High Commission Dhaka is in contact with airlines, the Bangladesh authorities and other governments to make sure commercial options for returning to the UK are also available as soon as possible.
The British High Commission Dhaka is issuing regular updates on Twitter and Facebook with the latest information for British nationals wishing to leave Bangladesh.
If you cannot leave Bangladesh at this time, you should:
follow the advice of local authorities, including local measures to help minimise your risk of exposure to coronavirus. You will need to be ready to comply with local isolation, testing or quarantine requirements.
find accommodation that’s suitable for your needs. Given that many restrictions remain in place and continue to be introduced, moving within Bangladesh may become more difficult. Unless you have an urgent reason to travel within Bangladesh, you may have to stay where you are while the flight suspension and lockdowns remain in place.
keep in regular contact with family and friends at home, so they know you are safe and well.
See more information and advice about staying where you are if you cannot return to the UK.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British High Commission Dhaka on +88 02 55668700 or via web form.
The British High Commission cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone. This page will be updated when departure options become available. To get the latest information, sign up for travel advice email alerts.
You can also contact the British High Commission Dhaka:
British High Commission Dhaka
United Nations Road
Baridhara
Dhaka - 1212
Bangladesh
Email: Dhaka.Press@fco.gov.uk
Follow the British High Commissioner to Bangladesh on Twitter: @RCDicksonUK Follow the British High commission Bangladesh on Twitter and Facebook: @UKinBangladeshand UK in Bangladesh
Further information
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
