Coronavirus guidance is being updated.
Read the Prime Minister’s statement for the latest information.

This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Bangladesh as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Bangladesh to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Bangladesh
For information on entering Bangladesh, see Entry Requirements
From 31 May, face masks must be worn at all times when moving in and around Bangladesh.
The Bangladesh authorities have announced a new traffic light system for lockdown restrictions. Areas across the country with a high number of COVID-19 cases will be designated as red zones. These restrictions may come into force at short notice. You should consult local media for the latest on red zones and follow the lockdown measures set by local authorities.
Curfew
The Government has asked people to stay at home from 8 pm until 6 am. Outside these hours the Government has instructed that people should only leave their homes if there is an urgent need. There are ongoing restrictions of movement between districts. Anyone not complying with these requests risks legal action.
Transport
Public transport is slowly being restored following Government restrictions. A limited public transport service has resumed across Bangladesh; however public transport in designated red zones may be restricted.
From 16 June flights from the UK are permitted to land in Bangladesh. See ‘Air travel’ section of Safety and security
Bangladesh authorities have also suspended train services to and from India until further notice.
Cox’s Bazar district
The Government of Bangladesh has classified Cox’s Bazar town as a red zone and placed specific lockdown restrictions on the area. All types of shops will be closed apart from food markets which will be limited to opening on Sundays and Thursdays only. Access to the Rohingya camps via Cox’s Bazar town is likely to be affected.
Businesses
Banking services are limited with many shops operating reduced hours. Emergency services including hospitals remain open. At short notice local authorities may lockdown buildings, streets and areas in order to control the spread of coronavirus.
Visas
Foreign investors and business people can apply for a visa on arrival on entry to Bangladesh on production of a PCR based COVID-19 negative medical certificate (in or with an English translation) issued within 72 hours of arriving in Bangladesh and the relevant supporting documents for getting an investment/business visa. Visas on arrival for other people remain suspended. Foreign nationals currently in Bangladesh with valid visas have the option of extending their visas by three months.
Accommodation
You should find accommodation that’s suitable for your needs. Given that many restrictions remain in place and continue to be introduced, moving within Bangladesh may become more difficult. Unless you have an urgent reason to travel within Bangladesh, you may have to stay where you are while the flight suspension and lockdowns remain in place.
Health
If you are running out of medication and need to get more, you should visit the nearest pharmacy or ask for assistance from family/friends or your accommodation provider. If the same medication you’re on is not available, consult a local doctor for a Bangladeshi alternative or go to the nearest hospital.
You should carry any medical papers or prescriptions and be prepared to answer questions if stopped by law enforcement authorities.
In case of any emergency, you can dial the Bangladesh National Emergency Hotline - 999 from your mobile/telephone for any assistance whilst in Bangladesh.
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Bangladesh.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Bangladesh, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, you should contact your local British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephones numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
