Terrorists are likely to try to carry out attacks in Bangladesh.
The threat extends across the country. Crowded areas and places where foreign nationals are known to gather, including religious buildings, may be at higher risk of attack. There is a risk that future attacks could also target public gatherings, including religious gatherings and political rallies. You should minimise your exposure to these areas, consider your movements carefully and follow any specific advice of the local security authorities.
There have been several IED attacks targeting police and security forces in Dhaka, Khulna, Chittagong and Sylhet. The Bangladeshi authorities continue to disrupt planned attacks and have made a number of arrests. Some operations against suspected militants have also resulted in fatalities. The Bangladeshi authorities remain at high alert. Increases in security force presence and restrictions on movement may be put in place at short notice. You should remain vigilant, particularly in and around police buildings and other locations with a police or security presence, and follow the advice of local authorities.
Since September 2015 Daesh (formerly referred to as ISIL) has claimed responsibility for a number of terrorist attacks in Bangladesh. There have been sporadic attacks against minority religious communities and security forces, including attacks using suicide bombs. On 1 July 2016 there was an attack claimed by ISIL at the Holey Artisan Bakery in the Gulshan 2 district of Dhaka, which resulted in the death of 20 hostages, mainly foreign nationals, and 2 police officers. There have been recent media reports suggesting continued Daesh interest in attacking targets in Bangladesh.
Groups affiliated to Al Qaeda in the Indian Sub-continent (AQIS) have also claimed responsibility for the murder of a number of people who they consider to have views and lifestyles contrary to Islam. Online activists, including secular bloggers and members of the LGBT community have been targeted.
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. You should remain vigilant at all times.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
