!
Warning
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to Bangladesh.

The Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) provides advice about risks of travel to help British nationals make informed decisions. Find out more about FCDO travel advice.
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to the whole of Bangladesh
Your travel insurance could be invalidated if you travel against FCDO advice. Consular support is also severely limited where FCDO advises against travel.
Violence in Bangladesh
Due to the current situation in Bangladesh, including the interruption to access to the internet and telephone services, family members of British High Commission staff have been temporarily withdrawn. The British High Commission continues with essential work including assistance to British nationals.
The Bangladesh government imposed a nationwide curfew across Bangladesh from 11.59pm (local time) on 19 July 2024. The curfew will be suspended in Dhaka district on 24 and 25 July 2024 at 10am until 5pm. The curfew will be suspended in Sylhet district on 24 and 25 July 2024 at 9am until 6pm. You are advised to follow the advice of local authorities if you are located elsewhere. There is widespread violence across Bangladesh, including resulting in deaths. You are advised to shelter in a safe place and follow the advice of local authorities
Communications have been severely disrupted, including mobile and internet services and local media.
Railway services are no longer operating in Bangladesh until further notice.
Find out more about why FCDO advises against travel.
Before you travel
No travel can be guaranteed safe. Read all the advice in this guide as well as support for British nationals abroad which includes:
advice on preparing for travel abroad and reducing risks
information for women, LGBT+ and disabled travellers
Follow and contact FCDO travel on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram. You can also sign up to get email notifications when this advice is updated.
Travel insurance
If you choose to travel, research your destinations and get appropriate travel insurance. Insurance should cover your itinerary, planned activities and expenses in an emergency.
