Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Cyprus on the TravelHealthPro website.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Cyprus.
Returning to the UK
Travelling from and returning to the UK
Check what you must do to travel abroad and return to England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
If you plan to pass through another country to return to the UK, check the travel advice for the country you’re transiting. If you will pass through a red list country, book your hotel quarantine package before travelling to the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements. The Cypriot government has advised that travellers should contact local authorities for information on testing facilities by calling 1450 or 1412.
The British High Commission is aware of issues that some passengers have had with airlines not accepting pre-departure COVID PCR test certificates from the north of Cyprus and is seeking clarification from the Republic of Cyprus. We advise all travellers with questions or concerns about pre-departure testing to seek advice directly from their airline well ahead of travel.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Cyprus
In line with a UN statement, all crossing points between the Republic and the north re-opened on 4 June 2021 subject to a Red, Orange, Green categorisation system. Under current conditions, Red status applies which means that vaccinated travellers must present a negative PCR or Antigen (rapid) test result, taken within the last 7 days, in order to cross. Unvaccinated travellers must present a negative PCR or Antigen (rapid) test result, taken within the last 72 hours in order to cross.
If you have been in the UK within 14 days of travel to Cyprus, and wish to cross to the north further conditions apply, refer to additional details under Entry to Cyprus.
Public spaces and services
The use of a face mask is compulsory in all indoor and outdoor public spaces for everyone aged 6 and above. Failure to comply with restrictions may result in a €300 fine.
People aged 6 and above require a SafePass to enter venues including malls, catering establishments, some sports facilities etc. See further information on the SafePass regulations and requirements.
You can get a SafePass if you can provide proof of either:
being fully vaccinated; or
having contracted COVID-19 in the past 6 months; or
a negative PCR test result not older than 72hrs or a negative rapid test result not older than 48hrs
If you are not fully vaccinated or haven’t recovered from COVID-19 in the last six months, you can obtain a SafePass after obtaining a negative result from the PCR test taken on arrival in Cyprus. For ongoing SafePass eligibility you will need to take a further PCR or antigen (rapid) test on day 7 following your arrival and every 72 hours thereafter. See section on Entry rules in response to coronavirus.
Cyprus will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 vaccination record. If you are travelling with a printed PDF proof of vaccination status, it must date from 1 November 2021 to ensure that the certificate can be scanned successfully. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
You can find full details of the latest measures introduced by the Cypriot authorities on this information page and more generally, including on SafePass/CoronaPass, on the Press & Information Office website.
North of Cyprus
Face masks must be worn in public at all times. An AdaPass is required to enter most venues. Additional information under Entry to Cyprus.
Healthcare in Cyprus
See the Cypriot Ministry of Health website for information on coronavirus from the Cypriot authorities. If you develop fever and/or respiratory symptoms such as shortness of breath or cough, the Cyprus Government advise that you stay indoors and immediately contact the Ministry of Health’s public health line on 1420 from a Cypriot line.
If you test positive for coronavirus while in Cyprus you must self-isolate for 14 days from the onset of symptoms or, if you are asymptomatic, from the day of the testing.
If you are unable to self-isolate in your current accommodation, the Cypriot authorities will ask you and your close contacts to move to a quarantine hotel. The cost of quarantine hotel accommodation in this situation is covered by the Cypriot government. Further guidance, including for people who have been in close contact with someone who has tested positive for coronavirus, is available at the Press and Public Information Office website.
The Deputy Ministry of Tourism has also set up a dedicated email address to assist travellers with questions; contact travel2021@visitcyprus.com. You can also submit queries via Facebook Messenger.
You can find a list of English speaking doctors online.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Cyprus.
Quarantine hotels
If you test positive for COVID-19 in the Republic of Cyprus you may have to enter a quarantine hotel. The cost will be covered by the Cypriot authorities. In the north of Cyprus authority-designated accommodation is at your own expense. You can also use the Güvende Kal application to request an electronic bracelet for quarantining at home. The UK government will not cover mandatory quarantine costs for British nationals. See Demonstrating your COVID-19 status
EHIC or GHIC cards cannot be used to cover any additional expenses you incur whilst staying in a quarantine hotel. Make sure you have access to funds to cover the costs or take out insurance, checking the policy has adequate cover.
If you have or are entitled to an EHIC or GHIC and you need medical treatment while staying at a quarantine hotel, the UK government will fund treatment as usual through the EHIC/GHIC scheme.
Find out more from the NHS website about EHIC and GHIC healthcare cover abroad.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Cyprus
Wherever possible British nationals should aim to be vaccinated in the country where they live. We will update this page when the Government of Cyprus announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Cyprus national vaccination programme started in December 2020 and is using the AstraZeneca, Moderna, and Johnson & Johnson vaccines. British nationals resident in Cyprus are eligible for vaccination.
UK nationals registered with the General Healthcare System (GeSY) can use the online portal to request a vaccination. UK Nationals who are not GeSY registered, but are legal residents can apply for a vaccination through a dedicated form. In the north of Cyprus a vaccination programme, starting with those most vulnerable, is being rolled out. UK Nationals resident in the north should contact their local health care provider for further information.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in Cyprus, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
If you receive your COVID-19 vaccination in Cyprus, you can get an EU Digital COVID Certificate from the national authorities. The Certificate proves that you have been vaccinated against COVID-19, received a negative test result, or recovered from COVID-19. It will help facilitate your travel within the EU and, in some countries, you can use it to demonstrate your COVID-19 status to businesses and other organisations. For further information visit the European Commission’s EU Digital COVID Certificate page.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
