This page has information on travelling to Cyprus. Check what you must do to return to the UK.
All travellers
The UK is in Cyprus’ Red category. All travellers are required to complete a Cyprus Flight Pass before travel and take the necessary tests according to your vaccination status as outlined below.
If you’re fully vaccinated
Passengers travelling to the Republic of Cyprus who are fully vaccinated are exempt from testing requirements before departure.
Upon arrival: All travellers aged 12 and above must take a PCR test at the airport. The cost of the airport test (€15 - €19) is borne by the passenger. Test results should be available within three hours through the online platform. You must self-isolate in your accommodation until the result is available. If your result is positive, you must remain self-isolated and await instructions from the Ministry of Health.
72 hours after arrival in Cyprus, travellers may be required to undergo a rapid test at a mobile unit and send the result to the Ministry of Health: monada2@mphs.moh.gov.cy. This is free of charge to those presenting a boarding pass at the testing site. You are exempt from this requirement if have received the 3rd dose of a two-dose vaccine or the 2nd dose of a single-dose vaccine.
Find out if you qualify as fully vaccinated in Cyprus on the Flight Pass website. Precise rules are subject to change and passengers should follow any instructions given on arrival at immigration or airport testing facilities. More information is available on the Cyprus Flight Pass website.
Proof of vaccination status
Cyprus will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 vaccination record and proof of COVID-19 vaccination issued in the Crown Dependencies. Your final vaccine dose must have been administered at least 14 days prior to travel. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
The Cyprus government have a help desk to assist travellers with queries regarding the use of the Cyprus Flight Pass. This service is accessible by telephone +(357) 2484 1234 and through the Cyprus Flight Pass e-platform. You should continue to track developments through the Republic of Cyprus Information Office.
If you’re not fully vaccinated
Passengers travelling to the Republic of Cyprus who are not fully vaccinated require a negative PCR test result taken within 72hrs before departure or a rapid antigen test taken within 24hrs before departure.
Results from the pre-departure test can be in the form of an email or SMS, but the result itself and/or appointment letter must include the date and time when the test was taken. You should not use the NHS testing service to get a test in order to facilitate your travel to another country. You should arrange to take a private test. If your test result is positive, you will need to wait 10 days before travelling to Cyprus.
Upon arrival: Passengers aged 12 and above must also take a PCR test at the airport. The cost of the airport test (€15 - €19) is borne by the passenger. Test results should be available within three hours through the online platform. You must self-isolate in your accommodation until the result is available. If your result is positive, you must remain self-isolated and await instructions from the Ministry of Health.
72 hours after arrival in Cyprus, travellers may be required to undergo a rapid test at a mobile unit and send the result to the Ministry of Health: monada2@mphs.moh.gov.cy. This is free of charge to those presenting a boarding pass at the testing site.
If you’ve had COVID-19 in the past year
The Cyprus Flight Pass website does not accept the UK’s proof of recovery from COVID-19. See the Cyprus flight pass website for further information.
Exemptions
Cypriot citizens and family members (alien spouses and their underage children), and persons legally residing in the Republic have the option to take a test only upon arrival in the Republic of Cyprus, provided you; have received at least the first dose of a two-dose vaccine accepted by the Republic of Cyprus; are aged 12–15; or cannot be vaccinated for proven medical reasons. If you meet one of these conditions and choose this option, you must remain in mandatory self-isolation for 72 hours upon arrival. At the end of the 72-hour period you must undergo another PCR test. If the repeat test is negative you must submit this online to the Cyprus Flight Pass platform and then you can end your isolation.
Children and young people
Children aged 11 and under are exempted from the testing requirement. Children aged 12 and over who have not completed a full vaccination programme need to follow the guidance for unvaccinated adults.
If you’re transiting through Cyprus
Passengers who travel from the UK via Cyprus, without disembarking and continue their travel on the same flight do not need to compete a Cyprus Flight Pass. Passengers who disembark in Cyprus and continue their travel on a connecting flight must complete a Cyprus Flight Pass. See the Cyprus flight pass website for further information.
Visiting the north of Cyprus
All travellers visiting the north of Cyprus from the UK must provide a negative result from a PCR test, taken within 72 hours or a rapid test taken within 24 hours prior to entry and complete an online Passenger Country Entry Form before travel. Where relevant you must upload your negative PCR test result, vaccination certificate bearing a QR code or proof of having previously contracted COVID-19 (in the form of a positive PCR test result obtained 30 to 180 days before the date of arrival). You must also carry printed copies of these documents.
Travellers who are fully vaccinated and those who have recovered from COVID-19 (within the last 180 days, as long as 10 days have passed since the last positive test) do not need to quarantine. You are considered fully vaccinated if you have received a booster shot or have received two doses of Sinovac, Pfizer Biontech, Sinopharm, Astrazeneca, Janssen, Sputnik, Moderna, Novavax, Covishield, Covaxin or Canisobio and 14 days have passed since your second shot. If more than 270 days have passed since your second shot, you will be deemed unvaccinated.
Travellers who have not completed the vaccination programme or not previously contracted COVID-19, must quarantine for 5 days at authority-designated accommodation at their own expense. If you can specify your accommodation, you can use the Güvende Kal application to request an electronic bracelet for quarantining at home. Another COVID-19 test will be taken in order to end the quarantine period. Fully vaccinated travellers or those who have had the disease will not be required to quarantine.
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
Passport validity
If you are planning to travel to an EU country (except Ireland), or Switzerland, Norway, Iceland, Liechtenstein, Andorra, Monaco, San Marino or Vatican City, you must meet the Schengen area rules.
Your passport must meet 2 requirements. It must be:
less than 10 years old on the day you enter (check the ‘date of issue’)
valid for at least 3 months after the day you plan to leave (check the ‘expiry date’)
We are asking the European Commission to clarify the 10-year rule. Their guidance for Schengen border guards may not be updated until the spring of 2022. Until then, for some Schengen countries your pass-port may need to be less than 10 years old during your whole visit, and the 3 months at the end of your visit may need to be within 10 years of your passport’s issue date.
Check both the issue date and the expiry date in your passport. If you renewed your passport early, extra months may have been added to its expiry date. This could affect the requirement for your passport to be less than 10 years old.
Contact your travel provider or embassy of the country you are visiting if you think that your passport does not meet both these requirements. Renew your passport if you need to.
If you’re travelling to the north of Cyprus, their administration advises that your passport should be valid for at least 6 months from your date of entry to the north.
Visas
For more information on crossing to and from the north of Cyprus, see Local travel.
Cyprus is not part of the Schengen area, Visits to Cyprus do not count towards your 90-day visa-free limit in the Schengen area.
Visits to other EU or Schengen countries do not count towards your 90-day visa-free limit in Cyprus.
You can travel to Cyprus for up to 90 days in any 180-day period without a visa. This applies if you travel as a tourist, to visit for family or friends, to attend business meetings, cultural or sports events, or for short-term studies or training.
To stay longer, to work or study, for business travel or for other rea-sons, you will need to meet the Cypriot government’s entry requirements. Check with the Republic of Cyprus High Commission what type of visa and/or work permit you may need.
If you are travelling to Cyprus for work, read the guidance on visas and permits.
If you stay in Cyprus with a Cypriot residence permit or long-stay visa, this time does not count towards your 90-day visa-free limit for Cyprus.
If you’re a resident in Cyprus, you are advised to carry your Republic of Cyprus-issued residency documents when entering/exiting the Republic of Cyprus.
The Republic of Cyprus does not recognise the self-declared ‘Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus’ in the north of Cyprus, nor residence permits issued by the administration there.
The Republic of Cyprus authorities will count time spent in the north of Cyprus towards the 90 day visa free total. If you overstay, you will potentially face difficulties at the airport on exit or re-entry.
Passport stamping
As a visitor, your passport will be stamped when you enter and exit Cyprus. Border guards will use the passport stamps to check you’re complying with the 90-day visa-free limit for short stays in Cyprus.
If you enter or exit the Schengen area through Cyprus as a visitor, check that your passport is stamped. This will show border guards that you are complying with the 90-day visa-free limit for Cyprus and the separate 90-day visa-free limit for the Schengen area.
If the relevant entry or exit stamp is not in your passport, border guards will presume that you have overstayed your visa-free limit. If you show evidence eg transport tickets to prove when you entered or exited Cyprus, border guards should add this entry or exit date and the location in your passport.
You may also need to:
show a return or onward ticket
show you have enough money for your stay
If you have a Withdrawal Agreement residency document for another country, your passport might still be stamped if you are a visitor to Cyprus.
If you are resident in Cyprus, read our Living in Cyprus guide for passport stamping information.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are accepted for entry, air-side transit and exit from Cyprus.
Returning to the UK
Check what you must do to return to the UK.
