At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Coronavirus
The Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advises against all but essential travel to the Republic of Cyprus and recommends that British nationals that wish to leave Cyprus contact their travel operator to make arrangements to do so as soon as possible. This is in response to the ongoing coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and in line with various controls and restrictions imposed by the Cypriot authorities. British nationals in Cyprus should follow the advice of the Cypriot authorities, which includes vacating their tourist accommodation by 21 March.
The Republic of Cyprus government has instructed all hotel and tourist accommodation to cease operations by 21 March, and to remain closed until 30 April. The government has stated that all tourists will need to leave their accommodation by 21 March. Some hotels may close before 21 March. The British government is discussing this requirement with the Cypriot government and asking airlines to offer more flights. We recommend that British nationals who wish to leave Cyprus contact their travel operator to make arrangements to do so as soon as possible.
From 15 March, UK nationals (and other non-Cypriots) are not be permitted to enter the Republic of Cyprus for tourism. UK nationals may enter if they are legal residents in the Republic of Cyprus, working in the Republic, attending educational institutions in the Republic or, with prior authorisation, have unavoidable professional obligations.
Essential travel to Cyprus for those in these categories is currently difficult because of the restrictions imposed by the Republic of Cyprus government. With effect from 16 March, the Republic of Cyprus requires that all UK travellers to Cyprus have a medical certificate issued in the past four days to show they have tested negative for COVID-19. UK health institutions do not issue negative COVID-19 medical certificates. Without a certificate passengers will be refused entry. Even with the certificate, passengers will have to enter 14 days quarantine in state facilities. These restrictions are in force until 30 April.
The administration in the north of Cyprus has introduced a ban on entry for all foreign nationals from 71 countries, including the UK. This includes those holding residency, work, or student permits. Returning ‘citizens’ of north Cyprus will have to undergo self-isolation for 14 days. Anyone found violating these measures will be arrested by the police and taken to a monitoring centre. This ruling will remain in force until 1 April when it will be reviewed.
Following policy changes announced by the Republic of Cyprus Government and the administration in the north, British Nationals will be unable to cross either the Greek Cypriot or Turkish Cypriot crossing points in either direction regardless of their residency status until further notice.
As part of its coronavirus response, the Cyprus government has banned indoor events of over 75 people and other mass events. If you are due to attend an event, you should check with the event organiser before travelling.
For information from the Cypriot authorities, see the Cypriot Ministry of Health website If you develop fever and/or respiratory symptoms such as shortness of breath or cough, the Cyprus Government advise that you stay indoors and immediately contact the Ministry of Health’s public health line: 1420
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
Healthcare
The rules on access to healthcare will stay the same until 31 December 2020.
You should get a free European Health Insurance Card (EHIC) before leaving the UK. After 31 December 2020, your UK-issued EHIC might not be valid.
The EHIC entitles you to state provided medical treatment that may become necessary during your trip. Any treatment provided is on the same terms as Cypriot nationals. If you don’t have your EHIC with you or you’ve lost it, you can call the Department of Health Overseas Healthcare Team (+44 191 218 1999) to get a Provisional Replacement Certificate.
It is important to take out comprehensive travel insurance that includes cover for emergency medical treatment and associated costs. The existing EHIC arrangements are not an alternative to travel insurance, as some health-related costs, including for medical repatriation, ongoing medical treatment and non-urgent treatment, are not covered. The EHIC is also not valid in the north of Cyprus. Read more about what your travel insurance should cover.
If you’re living in Cyprus, you can also find more information on healthcare for residents in our Living In Cyprus guide.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 112 and ask for an ambulance. If you are referred to a medical facility for treatment you should contact your insurance/medical assistance company immediately.
