Cyprus has a strictly enforced zero tolerance policy towards illegal drugs, which now includes laughing gas. If you are caught with any type of narcotic you will receive either a prison sentence or a hefty fine. The rules against possession of illegal drugs are stricter than in the UK.
Avoid taking photographs near potentially sensitive areas like military establishments.
Judicial Processes
The current judicial processing delays mean that court cases can take up to two years to be scheduled and adjournments happen regularly in Cyprus.
LGBT
Although not generally as widely accepted as in the UK, homosexuality is legal in the Republic of Cyprus and legislation passed in 2016 now allows for civil partnerships to be carried out. Homosexuality was also decriminalised in the northern part of Cyprus in 2014, but it is still not very widely accepted and some discretion is advised. See our information and advice page for the LGBT community before you travel.
Dual nationals
British nationals of Cypriot descent, irrespective of whether they hold Cypriot ID papers, may be considered eligible by the Cypriot authorities for military service. If this happens, you may face difficulties when exiting Cyprus, and you may have to prove that you live outside Cyprus.
Under international law, the British High Commission can’t formally intervene with the Cypriot authorities on behalf of those considered by the Cypriot authorities to be dual Cypriot/British nationals. If you think you may be eligible for any local obligations or duties that apply to dual nationals, contact the Cypriot authorities or a local lawyer before you travel.
The British High Commission website has lists of local lawyers for Cyprus and Cyprus (north).
Surrogacy
If you are visiting Cyprus for the purpose of commissioning surrogacy arrangements, you should consider the potential risks and challenges involved in pursuing international surrogacy and seek specialist legal advice on Cyprus and UK laws prior to making any arrangements. Surrogacy is a complex and lengthy process. The British High Commission does not have authority to be involved in surrogacy arrangements. The FCDO and Home Office have produced guidance to help inform you on the issues you may face when embarking on a surrogacy arrangement. Commissioning a surrogacy will not automatically mean that the child holds British citizenship.
Make sure you are fully aware of the facts and are well prepared before starting the process. Research prospective surrogacy clinics and hospitals thoroughly to ensure you are dealing with a safe and reputable organisation. The British High Commission cannot recommend specific hospitals or clinics.
If you wish to bring your child born via surrogacy from Cyprus to the UK you must apply for a full British passport, for which a Cypriot birth certificate will be needed. The maximum period of visa-free stay allowed by the Cypriot authorities is 90 days within a 180-day period.
Taking food and drink into the EU
You cannot take meat, milk or products containing them into EU countries. There are some exceptions for medical reasons, for example certain amounts of powdered infant milk, infant food, or pet food required for medical reasons. Check the rules about taking food and drink into the EU on the European Commission website.
