Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

There are currently extremely limited, indirect commercial options available to return to the UK from Cyprus due to the near complete ban on flights to and from Cyprus until 17 May. Although a very limited number of commercial flights are still able to leave Cyprus, only humanitarian and cargo flights may arrive.
We know this is concerning for British people trying to leave Cyprus. The UK government is working closely with airlines, the Cypriot authorities and other governments to make sure options are available for you to return to the UK as soon as possible.
Flights
British tourists in Cyprus wishing to return to the UK as soon as possible can register their interest in doing with the British High Commission in Nicosia
The Cyprus government is organising repatriation flights from European hubs.
From 25 – 30 April a series of 10 flights will operate to repatriate British tourists in Cyprus. These flights are due to run according to the schedule below:
25 April Larnaca to LHR 1040 - 1340
26 April Larnaca to LHR 1040 - 1340
26 April Larnaca to Manchester 0730 - 1045
27 April Larnaca to Edinburgh 0700 - 0920
28 April Larnaca to LHR 1040 - 1340
28 April Larnaca to Manchester 0730 - 1045
29 April Larnaca to Edinburgh 0700 - 0920
29 April Larnaca to Manchester 0810 - 1125
30 April Larnaca to Edinburgh 0600 - 0920
30 April Larnaca to Manchester 0810 - 1125
If you would like to return to the UK on one of these flights please contact UKinCyprus@fco.gov.uk, providing us with your full name, passport number, a contact telephone number, your location in Cyprus and indicating which flight you would like to take. These details will be shared with the operator and Aegean Airlines who will contact you to book tickets.
Please follow @UKinCyprus social media channels on Facebook and Twitter for future updates.
We are not aware of plans for further flights beyond 30 April. It is strongly advised that British nationals in Cyprus wishing to return to the UK book on to these flights. This also applies to British nationals in the north of Cyprus. Whilst it is possible that further flights become available, British nationals that choose to remain in Cyprus beyond 30 April should be prepared for an extended stay with no or few alternative options to return to the UK.
There are currently no flights between Turkey and the north of Cyprus until at least 1 May.
What to do
If you cannot leave Cyprus at this time, you should:
follow the advice of local authorities, including local measures to help minimise your risk of exposure to coronavirus.
find accommodation that’s suitable for your needs. Although hotel accommodation is closed, many private villas remain open. Consult the usual booking websites.
keep in regular contact with family and friends at home, so they know you are safe and well
See more information and advice about staying where you are if you cannot return to the UK.
Future travel options
The British High Commission in Nicosia is issuing regular updates on Twitter and Facebook with the latest available information on departure options from Cyprus.
You should also contact airlines or travel operators directly for more information on options for leaving the island. Sign up for travel advice email alerts here..
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Your journey home
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Help and support
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.
The High Commission cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone. Please follow @UKinCyprus social media channels on Facebook and Twitter for future updates. To get the latest information, sign up for travel advice email alerts.
Further information
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
