

This guide also has safety advice for regions of Cyprus.
Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out more about the global threat from terrorism.
Terrorism in Cyprus
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Cyprus, attacks cannot be ruled out.
Attacks could be indiscriminate, including in places visited by foreign nationals.
Regional risks
Ongoing hostilities in the region and between Israel and Iran could escalate quickly and pose security risks for the wider region. 
You should:
monitor local and international media for the latest information
be vigilant and follow the instructions of local authorities
Political demonstrations
Demonstrations may occur in cities with little or no notice. Events in the Middle East have led to heightened tensions and demonstrations are likely. Avoid any protests, political gatherings, or marches and leave the area if one develops. Local transport routes may be disrupted.
Political situation
The Republic of Cyprus is a full EU member, but the country is divided by the ‘Green Line’. The British government does not recognise the self-declared ‘Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus’.
Crime
Crime against tourists is not common but take sensible precautions. Keep passports, money and other valuables safe.
Drink spiking
Personal attacks, including sexual assaults, are infrequent but do happen. Drug-assisted rape is a risk, including with drugs like GHB and liquid ecstasy. Buy your own drinks and always keep sight of them. Avoid splitting up from your friends.
Laws and cultural differences
Illegal drugs
Cyprus has a strictly enforced zero-tolerance policy towards illegal drugs, including laughing gas and cannabis.
You should expect severe penalties such as a long jail sentence and heavy fines for possessing, using or smuggling illegal drugs, including when transiting through the airport.
Airports in Cyprus have excellent technology and security for detecting illegal items. This is also used to scan the baggage of transiting passengers.
LGBT+ travellers
Same-sex sexual activity is legal in the Republic of Cyprus and civil partnerships are recognised. However, they may not be as widely accepted as in the UK. Same-sex sexual activity is also legal in the north of Cyprus, but not widely accepted. 
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Dual nationals and military service
If you are of Cypriot descent, even if you do not have a nationality card, authorities may consider you eligible for military service. If this happens, you could have difficulties when exiting Cyprus, and you might have to prove that you live outside Cyprus.
Under international law, the British High Commission cannot intervene with Cypriot authorities on behalf of those considered to be dual Cypriot-British nationals. If you might be eligible for any local obligations or duties that apply to dual nationals, such as military service, contact the Cypriot authorities or a local lawyer before you travel.
The British High Commission has lists of English-speaking lawyers in Cyprus and in the north of Cyprus. See Getting help.
Surrogacy
If you are visiting Cyprus to arrange an international surrogacy, consider the risks and challenges involved. Surrogacy is a complex and lengthy process. You should:
make sure you are fully aware of the facts and well-prepared before starting the process
seek specialist legal advice on Cyprus and UK laws before making any arrangements
read FCDO and Home Office guidance on surrogacy overseas including issues you might have to deal with
research clinics and hospitals thoroughly to ensure they are safe and reputable
The British High Commission cannot get involved in surrogacy arrangements or recommend hospitals or clinics.
Commissioning a surrogacy will not automatically mean that the child holds British citizenship. If you want to bring your child born through surrogacy from Cyprus to the UK, you must apply for a full British passport. You will need a Cypriot birth certificate to apply. The maximum period of visa-free stay allowed by the Cypriot authorities is 90 days within a 180-day period.
International parental child abduction
The authorities in the north of Cyprus do not act on British court orders. They will not share information with the British High Commission on children subject to UK court orders. This means the British High Commission cannot ensure that these children are properly safeguarded.
Using cameras in secure areas
Avoid taking photographs near sensitive areas, such as military buildings. If you do, the authorities could arrest you.
Outdoor activities and adventure tourism
Swimming safety
Bathing is generally safe, but there can be strong waves and currents. Always follow warning signs and only swim on approved beaches.
See water safety on holiday from the Royal Life Saving Society. 
Adventure sports, including quad biking
If you do any extreme or adventure sports, water sports or diving, you should:
get the right travel insurance – the sport should be included by name on your policy
always check the details of your insurance cover before you travel, including the exclusions
only use properly licensed and insured operators and satisfy yourself that adequate safety precautions are in place
never hand over your passport as a guarantee against the return of equipment
See ⁠watersports safety advice from the Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents (ROSPA).
Transport risks
Road travel
If you are planning to drive in Cyprus, see information on driving abroad and check the rules of the road in the RAC’s Cyprus guide. The guide lists driving regulations and other legal requirements you need to be aware of.
You could be heavily fined if you:
drive or are a passenger without wearing a seat belt
ride a motorbike without a crash helmet
use a mobile while driving
are found to be drink-driving
Licences and permits
You can use a UK photocard driving licence to drive in Cyprus. If you still have a paper driving licence, you may need to update it to a photocard licence or get the correct version of the international driving permit (IDP) as well.
You must display a UK sticker to drive a UK-based car in Cyprus.
Driving standards
Driving standards are poor and there is an increased risk of road deaths compared to the UK.
Car and motorbike hire
Cars hired in the Republic of Cyprus often have no insurance cover in the north of the island. Check with your insurance company as you will not be allowed through a crossing without the correct insurance documents. At some crossing points it is possible to buy car insurance for the north of Cyprus. This includes the Agios Dometios.
Hire companies renting mopeds and quad bikes usually only provide third-party insurance, so you will have to pay for any damage to the vehicle. If you do not pay, you could be arrested.
If you hire a vehicle, check:
it is in good condition and roadworthy
it has appropriate safety equipment
Rental companies often ask for your passport as a deposit, which is illegal. Never hand over your passport in this way.
Extreme weather and natural disasters
The Department of Meteorology of Cyprus issues warnings for severe weather, especially during summer. Weather can sometimes cause travel disruption. Monitor local and international updates and severe weather warnings from the Cyprus Department of Meteorology, and check with your travel provider if necessary. Always follow the advice of local authorities.
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards.
Wildfires  
There is a high risk of wildfires during the summer season from April to October. Ensure that your mobile phone is registered to receive emergency alerts to be warned of wildfires near your location.
Wildfires are highly dangerous and unpredictable. The situation can change quickly.
Be cautious if you are in or near an area affected by wildfires:
follow the guidance of the emergency services
call the Cyprus emergency services on 112 if you are in immediate danger
Get more information on wildfires from the Department of Forests website.
Earthquakes
Cyprus experiences earthquakes and tremors. Make sure you know safety procedures and follow advice given by the local authorities.
