This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Cyprus as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Cyprus to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Cyprus
Following policy changes announced by the Republic of Cyprus Government and the administration in the north, all crossing points between the Republic and the north are effectively closed to travellers.
In the Republic of Cyprus, from 4 May movements are limited to three permitted outings per day.
Anyone under 65 years old going outdoors must send an SMS to 8998 explaining the reasons for going outdoors.
Further guidance and information is available from the Press and Information Office website. If you do not have a Cypriot mobile phone, you are advised to buy a local pay-as-you-go SIM card in order to use this service.
Anyone over the age of 65 may use a written form, or exceptionally a handwritten note following the format outlined in the guidance. There is a further form which employers should complete for their employees in order to travel to work.
A night-time curfew will continue to operate from 10pm to 6am.
In the north of Cyprus, a night time curfew (9pm-6am) remains in place until 1 June. From 4 May, certain businesses reopened, with further openings from 15 May.
Closure of hotels
All hotels have ceased operations and will remain closed until further notice. The Republic of Cyprus government is using a small number of hotels to accommodate Cypriot nationals and permanent residents who have recently returned from abroad for quarantine purposes.
Health
For information from the Cypriot authorities, see the Cypriot Ministry of Health website If you develop fever and/or respiratory symptoms such as shortness of breath or cough, the Cyprus Government advise that you stay indoors and immediately contact the Ministry of Health’s public health line: 1420
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Cyprus
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Cyprus, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
