Coronavirus: stay up to date
This page will be updated with country-specific information for travellers to Cyprus. Sign up for email alerts.
See our coronavirus travel advice for guidance on travel during the COVID-19 pandemic, including on cruise ship travel.
There is an ongoing outbreak of coronavirus (COVID-19) in China, but cases have been confirmed in other countries, including Cyprus. You should comply with any additional screening measures put in place by the authorities. See Health.
The Republic of Cyprus government has announced stricter measures from 0100 local time on 15 March for those entering Cyprus. UK nationals (and other non-Cypriots) will not be permitted to enter the Republic of Cyprus for tourist purposes. UK nationals may enter if they are legal residents in the Republic of Cyprus, working in the Republic, attending educational institutions in the Republic or, with prior authorisation from the Cypriot government, have unavoidable professional obligations. This policy will be in force for 15 days, when it will be reviewed.
This is in addition to the announcement with effect from 14 March which requires that those that have been in the UK in the 14 days prior to arriving in the Republic of Cyprus should self-isolate for 14 days. Those who are due to leave the country before the end of 14 days may do so provided they do not display symptoms. Those who arrived in Cyprus prior to 14 March are not affected by these measures. The above measures are expected to remain in place until further notice. Other measures apply for those that have been in other countries / territories prior to arrival in the Republic of Cyprus and if relevant, you should monitor Cypriot government announcements.
The administration in the north of Cyprus has introduced a temporary ban on British nationals entering the north of Cyprus from 12 March. The administration also requires anyone who enters the north of Cyprus to self-isolate for 14 days if they have arrived on the island from a range of countries / territories, including the UK, within the last 14 days. Anyone entering self-isolation is required to complete the full period of 14 days before leaving again. Some crossing points between the north and the south of the island have been temporarily closed.
Following policy changes announced by the Republic of Cyprus Government and the administration in the north, British Nationals will be unable to cross either the Greek Cypriot or Turkish Cypriot crossing points in either direction regardless of their residency status until further notice. See Health.
The rules on travel to EU countries will stay the same until 31 December 2020. This page will be updated with country-specific information for travellers to Cyprus as things change. Sign up for email alerts and view the latest updates for UK nationals travelling to and living in Europe.
Around one million British nationals visit Cyprus every year. Most visits are trouble-free.
If you’re living in or moving to Cyprus, visit our Living in Cyprus guide in addition to this travel advice.
Terrorist attacks in Cyprus can’t be ruled out. See Terrorism
Cyprus has a strict zero tolerance towards drugs. See Local laws and customs
Driving standards are poor. You should drive with great care. See Road travel
There have been reports of an increase in holidaymakers being encouraged to submit a claim for personal injury if they have experienced gastric illness during their stay. You can find more information about the action you can take if you have suffered a personal injury on the Citizens Advice website. You should only consider pursuing a complaint or claim if you have genuinely suffered from injury or illness; if you make a false or fraudulent claim, you may face legal proceedings in the UK or Cyprus.
If you need to contact the emergency services call 112.
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.
You should take out comprehensive travel and medical insurance before you travel. For information on the European Health Insurance Card see Health.
