

Wildfires in Cyprus
There have been active wildfires in Cyprus, including in the Paphos and Limassol districts, which have resulted in some evacuations from affected areas. Transport and infrastructure (electricity, water) links in locations close to the fires may be affected whilst the authorities respond to the situation. 
Both Paphos and Larnaca airports are operating as normal.
Get more information on wildfires from the Department of Forests website.
If you are travelling to an area affected by wildfires 
If you are due to travel to an area that might be affected by wildfires, contact your travel operator or accommodation provider before you travel to check that it is not currently impacted. Make sure you have appropriate insurance. 
If you are in or near areas affected by wildfires 
be cautious if you are in or near an area affected by wildfires. You should follow the guidance of the emergency services
call the Cypriot Emergency services on 112 if you are in immediate danger
contact  your airline or travel operator, who can assist you with information relating travel back to the UK
If you need consular assistance 
If you are a British national and need consular assistance, call our 24-hour helpline on +44 20 7008 5000
Before you travel
No travel can be guaranteed safe. Read all the advice in this guide. You may also find it helpful to: 
see general advice for women travellers
read our guide on disability and travel abroad
see general advice for LGBT+ travellers
read about safety for solo and independent travel
see advice on volunteering and adventure travel abroad
Travel insurance
If you choose to travel, research your destinations and get appropriate travel insurance. Insurance should cover your itinerary, planned activities and expenses in an emergency.
About FCDO travel advice
The Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO) provides advice about the risks of travel, to help you make informed decisions. Find out more about FCDO travel advice. 
Get travel advice updates
Sign up to get email notifications when this advice is updated.
Follow FCDO:
travel advice on X
travel advice on Facebook
Travel Aware on Instagram
