This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in St Martin & St Barthélemy set and enforce entry rules. For further information contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to. You should also consider checking with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
There’s no physical border between the French and Dutch territories on the island of St Martin and people and goods may travel freely between the two sides of the island.
Entry rules in response to coronavirus (COVID-19)
Entry into St Martin & St Barthélemy is restricted at present. Arrivals may also be required to self-isolate for seven days, before taking another PCR test. For further information, please see the local Prefecture website.
All travellers over the age of 11 must undertake a test for COVID-19 within 72 hours before departure for St Martin & St Barthélemy. The test is obligatory and the traveller must show proof of a negative result before embarking.
Travellers may also need to produce a self-certified document affirming that they have no COVID symptoms and that to their knowledge they have not been in contact with any person confirmed positive within the last 14 days. You should check with your travel operator and the local Prefecture’s advice ahead of travel.
Airlines may refuse boarding to anyone who does not produce both proof of a negative result and the self-certified document.
For further information on entry rules for St Martin & St Barthélemy please consult the website of the local Prefecture and the French government’s website.
If travelling via France, you should also check our Travel Advice for France.
Regular entry requirements
Visas
If you hold a British Citizen passport, you don’t need a visa to enter St Martin or St Barthélemy for stays of up to three months. Other British passport holders, and those who plan to stay longer than three months, should check the current entry requirements on the website of the French Ministry of Foreign Affairs and, if necessary, confirm with the nearest French Diplomatic mission.
Passport validity
You must have at least six months left on an adult or child passport to travel to most countries in Europe.
If you renewed your current passport before the previous one expired, extra months may have been added to its expiry date. Any extra months on your passport over 10 years may not count towards the 6 months needed.
Check your passport is valid for travel before you book your trip. You will need to renew your passport before travelling if you do not have enough time left on your passport.
UK residents in St Martin & St Barthélemy
If you live in St Martin & St Barthélemy, you should carry your residence document, as well as your valid passport when you travel. If you have applied but not yet received your document, carry your certificate of application. You will have received this as an email. If you have not yet applied for a residence document, you should carry evidence that you are resident in St Martin & St Barthélemy. This could include a tenancy agreement or a utility bill in your name, dating from 2020. For more information, including on how to apply for a residence document, see the French government’s website.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are accepted for entry, airside transit and exit from St Martin and St Barthélemy.
