

Before you travel check that:
your destination can provide the healthcare you may need
you have appropriate travel insurance for local treatment or unexpected medical evacuation
This is particularly important if you have a health condition or are pregnant.
Emergency medical number
Dial 15 or 112 and ask for an ambulance.
Contact your insurance or medical assistance company promptly if you’re referred to a medical facility for treatment.
Vaccinations
At least 8 weeks before your trip check:
the latest information on vaccinations and health risks in TravelHealthPro’s French overseas territories in the Carribean guide
where to get vaccines and whether you have to pay on the NHS travel vaccinations page
Health risks
Health risks in St Martin and St Barthélemy include:
Zika virus
dengue fever
See the ‘Other risks’ section of the French overseas territories in the Carribean TravelHealthPro guide for more details.
Medication
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or bought in the UK can be different in other countries.
Read best practice when travelling with medicines on TravelHealthPro.
The NHS has information on whether you can take your medicine abroad.
Healthcare facilities in St Martin and St Barthélemy
Healthcare facilities, including emergency services, hospitals and the availability of doctors (GPs), are good and of an equivalent standard to those found in mainland France. Some specialist treatment may only be available on the larger French islands of Guadeloupe and Martinique.
Health insurance cards
St Martin
St Martin is an outermost region of the EU. Apply for a free UK Global Health Insurance Card (GHIC) or European Health Insurance Card (EHIC) before leaving the UK. If you already have an EHIC, it will still be valid if it remains in date.
The GHIC or EHIC entitles you to state-provided medical treatment necessary during your trip. Any treatment provided is on the same terms as St Martin nationals. If you do not have your card with you or you’ve lost it, contact the NHS Overseas Healthcare Team.
It’s important to take out appropriate travel insurance for your needs. A GHIC or EHIC is not an alternative to travel insurance and you should have both before you travel. A GHIC or EHIC does not cover all health-related costs, for example, medical repatriation, ongoing medical treatment and non-urgent treatment. Read more about what your travel insurance should cover.
GHIC and EHIC cover state healthcare only, not private treatment. You will be responsible for the cost of any treatment provided by a private doctor or private clinic.
For more information read guidance on healthcare when travelling in Europe.
St Barthélemy
St Barthélemy is not part of the EU, for the purposes of the EU regulations governing access to healthcare. You cannot get any form of free healthcare there. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation.
Residents
If you’re planning a permanent move to St Martin or St Barthélemy, consult the UK Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) for advice on long-term entitlement to healthcare under the French national system. You should phone the DWP Overseas Medical Benefits helpline on +44 (0)191 218 1999.
Alternatively, you can get information from the English-language service of the Caisse Primaire d’Assurance Maladie (the French social security service) on +33 (0)820 90 42 12 or CLEISS.
Travel and mental health
Read FCDO guidance on travel and mental health. There is also mental health guidance on TravelHealthPro.
