

Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. You should remain vigilant at all times.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in St Martin and St Barthélemy
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in St Martin or St Barthélemy, attacks cannot be ruled out.
Crime
Protecting your belongings
Crime levels are low in St Martin and St Barthélemy, but you should take sensible precautions.
You should:
avoid isolated areas, including beaches, after dark
not show large amounts of cash
take care if wearing expensive-looking jewellery in public
put valuables and travel documents in safety deposit boxes and hotel safes
Laws and cultural differences
St Martin and St Barthélemy are French overseas territories and French law applies.
Personal ID
You must be able to prove your identity either by providing documents when asked or within 4 hours at a police station. Identity documents can be:
a passport
a photo driving licence
other documentation provided by a government body
Transport risks
Road travel
If you are planning to drive in St Martin or St Barthélemy, see information on driving abroad. French driving rules apply. Information about French driving laws are available in the RAC France guide.
Licences and permits
You need either a 1968 international driving permit (IDP) or a valid UK driving licence to drive in St Martin and St Barthélemy. The 1949 IDP is no longer accepted. You cannot buy an IDP outside the UK, so get one before you travel.
Extreme weather and natural disasters
Hurricanes
The hurricane season in St Martin and St Barthélemy normally runs from June to November. Monitor local and international weather updates from the World Meteorological Organisation and the US National Hurricane Center.
See tropical cyclones for advice about how to prepare effectively and what to do if you’re likely to be affected by a hurricane or tropical cyclone.
