The Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) advises against all but essential travel to:
the whole of St Martin based on the current assessment of COVID-19 risks.
If you are arriving in the UK from St Martin, you need to self-isolate. If you are arriving in the UK from St Barthélemy on or after 4am on 18 January you will need to self-isolate on your arrival, unless you have a valid exemption. Check the latest guidance for England, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales
Coronavirus: stay up to date
See information on how to stay safely as a visitor if you cannot return
See coronavirus travel advice for guidance on international travel.
Sign up for email alerts for St Martin and St Barthélemy travel advice.
Travel is subject to entry restrictions
Travellers have to produce a negative result of a PCR test carried out less than 72 hours before arrival. Arrivals may also be required to self-isolate for seven days, before taking another PCR test
Entry into St Martin & St Barthélemy is restricted at present. Please see the local Prefecture’s website for further information
Travellers may need to provide a self-certified document affirming that they have no COVID symptoms and that to their knowledge they have not been in contact with any person confirmed positive within the last 14 days
These entry requirements are subject to change. For further information on the entry restrictions in place for French Overseas Territories, please see the French government’s website before travelling
Preparing for your return journey to the UK
If you’re returning to the UK from overseas, you will need to:
provide your journey and contact details before you travel
Access to St Martin and St Barthélemy is subject to restrictions. See Entry requirements
St Martin and St Barthélemy are French overseas territories. St Martin is an Outermost Region of the European Union. Consular support is not available from the British government in St Martin or St Barthélemy. However, the British Embassy in Paris, France can provide consular support to British nationals.
Most visits to the French Caribbean are trouble-free. Crime levels are low, but you should take sensible precautions. See Crime
The island of St Martin was severely affected by the passage of Hurricanes Irma and Maria in September 2017. Many buildings were destroyed and infrastructure damaged. Reconstruction has begun, but due to the size of the devastation, the effects are still noticeable. The tourism sector was severely affected and room capacity may be reduced; it’s advisable to make prior reservations.
The hurricane season in St Martin and St Barthélemy normally runs from June to November. You should monitor local and international weather updates from the US National Hurricane Centre. See Natural disasters
UK health authorities have classified St Martin and St Barthélemy as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For more information and advice, visit the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in St Martin or St Barthélemy, attacks can’t be ruled out. See Terrorism
Take out comprehensive travel and medical insurance before you travel.
