Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Monaco on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Monaco.
Returning to the UK
Travelling from and returning to the UK
Check what you must do to travel abroad and return to England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
If you plan to pass through another country to return to the UK, check the travel advice for the country you’re transiting. If you will pass through a red list country, book your hotel quarantine package before travelling to the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with any UK government testing requirements.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Monaco
You can find more information regarding the measures in place on the Monaco government website. This information is subject to updates, so you should check before and during your stay in Monaco.
If you are planning on travelling through France, the French government have implemented their own measures, including required documents for travel into, and transit through, France.
If you are planning to use this route, check the latest travel advice for France ahead of your journey.
Information on the measures taken to tackle COVID-19 in Monaco is available on the website of the Principality of Monaco.
Healthcare in Monaco
If you are in Monaco and you believe you have symptoms or have any questions please call Monaco’s coronavirus emergency number 98 98 48 50 or 06 78 63 85 68.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Monaco.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Monaco
Wherever possible British nationals should aim to be vaccinated in the country where they live. We will update this page when the Government of Monaco announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
Monaco’s national vaccination programme started in December 2020 and is using the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine (also known as Comirnaty). British nationals resident in Monaco are eligible for vaccination. For information on how to access vaccinations in Monaco please check with local authorities, more information can be found on the Government of Monaco’s COVID-19 vaccination website.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in Monaco, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
