This page has information on travelling to Monaco.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport from the UK, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Monaco set and enforce entry rules. If you’re unsure how [Country’s] entry requirements apply to you, contact its UK embassy, high commission or consulate.
All travellers
All travellers should familiarise themselves with the entry rules for Monaco before travel. Health measures for entry into Monaco will vary depending on whether travelling from a green, amber or red country. The UK is currently designated as a ‘green country’. For further details on this list, see the Government of Monaco’s website.
If you’re fully vaccinated
You may enter Monaco from the UK for any travel purpose if you are fully vaccinated. Travellers from the UK aged 16 or over will need to present either proof of vaccination, a negative PCR or antigen test taken within 24 hours, or evidence of recovery from COVID-19 in the last 6 months.
Proof of vaccination status
Monaco will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 recovery and vaccination record at the border. For the COVID-19 Janssen vaccine, this means you must have received your first dose at least 28 days prior to travel. For other vaccines, your final dose must have been administered at least 7 days prior to travel. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
Anyone 18 years or over must have received an additional dose of a vaccine no later than 9 months following administration of their initial dose. You will be considered fully vaccinated 7 days following the administration of an additional dose. For further details, see the Government of Monaco’s website.
Further information
If your vaccine certificate shows a different name to your passport (e.g. marital / birth name), you should also carry any supporting documentation (e.g. marriage certificate) when travelling.
Check our COVID-19 advice on things to consider, and be prepared to stay overseas longer than planned.
If you’re not fully vaccinated
Travellers to Monaco from the UK aged 16 or over who are not fully vaccinated will need to provide:
a negative result of a PCR or antigen test taken within the last 24 hours; or
a certificate showing proof of recovery from COVID-19 (a positive PCR or antigen test, taken more than 11 days before arrival and within the last 6 months)
Further information can be found on the Government of Monaco’s website or the website of Monaco’s Embassy to the UK.
You should not use the NHS testing service to get a test in order to facilitate your travel to another country. You should arrange to take a private test from a private coronavirus testing provider. Test results must be certified by an approved private test provider to be accepted.
Children and young people
Travellers aged 16 or over are subject to the Government of Monaco’s COVID-19 restrictions and must provide the required documentation.
If you’re transiting through Monaco
Transiting is when you pass through one country on the way to your final destination. Transiting through Monaco is permitted for travellers from the UK in line with the entry requirements set out above.
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
You should check with your travel provider to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Passport validity
If you are planning to travel to an EU country (except Ireland), or Switzerland, Norway, Iceland, Liechtenstein, Andorra, Monaco, San Marino or Vatican City, you must follow the Schengen area passport requirements.
Your passport must be:
issued less than 10 years before the date you enter the country (check the ‘date of issue’)
valid for at least 3 months after the day you plan to leave (check the ‘expiry date’)
You must check your passport meets these requirements before you travel. If your passport was issued before 1 October 2018, extra months may have been added to its expiry date.
Contact the embassy of the country you are visiting if you think that your passport does not meet both these requirements. Renew your passport if you need to.
Visas
France handles immigration and customs matters for Monaco. If your passport describes you as a British Citizen you will not need a visa to enter France. Other British passport holders should check the current entry requirements on the website of the French Foreign Ministry and if necessary confirm with the nearest French Diplomatic mission.
UK emergency travel documents
UK emergency travel documents are accepted for entry, airside transit and exit from Monaco.
