Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Switzerland on the TravelHealthPro website.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
It is compulsory to wear a facemask on all flights to and from Switzerland. Some travel operators, such as airlines, may specify the types of masks permitted to be worn on board e.g. surgical masks, and may encourage you to take spares for long journeys. Please check with your travel operator before travelling.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Switzerland.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements. You should check that the test result can be provided in the correct form and language. You should check the cantonal websites for information on testing facilities.
Neighbouring countries may introduce restrictions at borders and conduct health checks. Check the travel advice for any country you need to travel to or through. See our Travel Advice for France and Germany for the latest rules for transiting those countries from/to Switzerland.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
COVID-19 restrictions
Switzerland has put measures in place to limit the spread of COVID-19.
You should follow the rules on hygiene and social distancing. These include:
Keeping a distance of at least 1.5 metres from other people
If it is not possible to maintain that distance, wear a face mask
Wearing a face mask is compulsory when travelling on public transport and when indoors in publicly accessible areas including. Further information on masks is available on the Swiss Federal Office of Public Health website. Failure to do so is punishable by a fine. Children under the age of 12 are exempt from this requirement, as are individuals who are unable to wear a mask for medical reasons.
Proof of vaccination, proof of recovery from a COVID-19 infection or a negative test result (up to 48 hours for a rapid antigen test or 72 hours for a PCR test) is required for entry into large-scale outdoor events attended by over 1,000 people. Children under the age of 16 are exempt from this requirement.
From 13 September the need to show proof of vaccination/recovery from a COVID-19 inflection or a negative test result will be extended to:
Indoor hospitality venues including restaurants, bars, clubs and discos
Cultural, sporting and leisure activities indoors. This includes museums and libraries, leisure facilities, zoos, casinos, fitness centres and sports facilities, indoor pools and water parks
Indoor events including theatre and cinema, concerts, sporting events and private events outside the home (e.g. weddings).
Further information is available from the Federal Office of Public Health.
Cantons may imposed further restrictions, and you should check cantonal websites for further details.
Switzerland only recognises Swiss COVID Certificates or EU Digital COVID Certificates for proof of entry to events or venues.
Healthcare in Switzerland
If you feel ill, or are experiencing possible coronavirus symptoms, stay at home and either take the Coronavirus Check or call your doctor.
For contact details for English speaking doctors, visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Switzerland.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Switzerland
Wherever possible British nationals should aim to be vaccinated in the country where they live. We will update this page when the Government of Switzerland announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Swiss national vaccination programme started in December 2020 and is using the Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna vaccines. British nationals resident in Switzerland are eligible for vaccination. The Swiss authorities have issued their vaccination strategy on how vaccinations are organised in your canton. You can register for vaccination on the website of your canton of residence.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in Switzerland, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
If you receive your COVID-19 vaccination in Switzerland, you can get a Digital COVID Certificate from the cantonal authorities. The Certificate proves that you have been vaccinated against COVID-19, received a negative test result, or recovered from COVID-19. It will help facilitate your travel within the Schengen Area and, in some countries, you can use it to demonstrate your COVID-19 status to businesses and other organisations. For further information visit the Federal Office of Public Health’s COVID Certificate page.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further Information
Further information is available from the Federal Office of Public Health or by calling the Coronavirus Infoline on +41 58 463 00 00 (4am – 9pm GMT). Assistance is available in English, German, French and Italia.
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
