This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Switzerland set and enforce entry rules. For further information contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to. You should also consider checking with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
You will require a valid passport or other travel document to enter Switzerland.
If you are travelling to Switzerland for work, read the guidance on visas and permits as the rules have changed since 1 January 2021.
Entry rules in response to coronavirus (COVID-19)
Neighbouring countries may introduce restrictions at borders and conduct health checks. Check the travel advice for any country you need to travel to or through.
Eligibility to enter Switzerland
You are eligible to enter Switzerland for any travel purpose if you are fully vaccinated and have a negative PCR (not older than 72 hours or lateral flow test (not older than 24 hours) test on boarding. Fully vaccinated or recovered travellers no longer have to take day 4 and 7 tests.
More detail is available on the Swiss Federal Office of Health’s website.
Travellers who are not fully vaccinated are only eligible to enter Switzerland from the UK if they are:
Swiss or Liechtenstein nationals;
EU or EFTA nationals;
holders of the following documents:
a residence permit, i.e. a Swiss residence permit (L / B / C / Ci permits);
a cross-border permit (G permit);
an FDFA legitimation card;
a D visa issued by Switzerland;
confirmation of notification for the cross-border provision of services up to 90 days;
holders of a ‘laissez passer’ issued by the Swiss Embassy in situations of special necessity
Travellers who are not fully vaccinated and do not meet one of the exemptions outlined above are not eligible to enter Switzerland.
Unvaccinated children and adolescents arriving from the UK under the age of 18 are allowed to enter Switzerland if they are accompanied by fully vaccinated adults.
All travellers must complete a passenger locator form.
You can see what rules apply to you when entering Switzerland using the online Travelcheck service.
Testing requirements
Travellers must be able to produce a negative PCR test (not older than 72 hours) or lateral flow test (not older than 24 hours) on boarding a plane to Switzerland and on entry. You must have this test in your country of departure. Children under the age of 16 are exempt from testing. There are limited other exemptions from this requirement. A negative COVID-19 test will not grant your entry to Switzerland if you are not eligible to enter (i.e. fully vaccinated or exempt).
Fully vaccinated or recovered travellers no longer have to take a test after 4 to 7 days. Unvaccinated travellers from the UK must complete a further test (antigen or PCR) after 4 to 7 days in Switzerland, and must send the result of the second test to the relevant cantonal office. Find the relevant cantonal office. Children under the age of 16 are exempt from testing. There are also exemptions for cross-border workers and workers transporting passengers or goods through Switzerland. Exemptions apply to both antigen and PCR tests. Other limited exemptions apply. More detail is available on the Swiss Federal Office of Health’s website.
Demonstrating your COVID-19 status
Switzerland will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 recovery and vaccination record and proof of COVID-19 vaccination issued in the Crown Dependencies. However a screenshot or a photo is not sufficient. Further information is available from the State Secretariat for Migration. Your final vaccine dose must have been administered within the 12 months prior to travel and in the case of the Janssen vaccination, at least 22 days prior to travel. If you are travelling with a printed PDF proof of vaccination status, it must date from 1 November 2021 to ensure that the certificate can be scanned successfully. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
You will be regarded as vaccinated if you have been vaccinated with a vaccine that either:
is authorised in Switzerland and has been administered in full in accordance with Federal Office of Public Health recommendations; or
has been authorised by the European Medicines Agency for the European Union and has been administered in full in accordance with the requirements or recommendations of the country in which the vaccination was administered; or
has been authorised under the WHO Emergency Use Listing and has been administered in full in accordance with the requirements or recommendations of the country in which the vaccination was administered.
This includes the AstraZeneca, Pfizer, Moderna and Janssen vaccines that are available in the UK.
Further information is available on the Federal Office of Public Health and State Secretariat for Migration websites. The Federal Office of Public Health also have a helpline for people travelling to Switzerland (+41 58 464 44 88) which is available every day from 6am to 11pm CET.
Transit
Travellers entering Switzerland to transit on to another destination (e.g. France, Germany or Italy) are required to show a negative PCR test before boarding a plane to Switzerland and on entry to Switzerland. Travellers transiting airside in Switzerland are not required to show a negative PCR test before boarding a plane to Switzerland, but may be required to show negative tests for their onward destination.
If you are transiting Switzerland, you are strongly advised to have your onward travel booked in advance and to have confirmed you meet the entry requirements of your destination country (you may be asked to provide proof of your onward travel and accommodation). If you are transiting by air, you must complete an online form and provide contact details. You should also check the travel advice for any country that you will transit on the way back to the UK. Further information about travelling through Switzerland is available from the State Secretariat for Migration.
Helpline
Further advice for people travelling to Switzerland is available from an information line run by the Federal Office of Public Health on +41 58 464 44 88 (4am – 9pm GMT). Assistance is available in English, German, French and Italian.
Regular entry requirements
Visas
The rules for travelling or working in European countries changed on 1 January 2021:
you can travel to countries in the Schengen area for up to 90 days in any 180-day period without a visa. This applies if you travel as a tourist, to visit family or friends, to attend business meetings, cultural or sports events, or for short-term studies or training.
if you are travelling to Switzerland and other Schengen countries without a visa, make sure your whole visit is within the 90-day limit. Visits to Schengen countries within the previous 180 days before you travel count towards your 90 days.
to stay longer, to work or study, for business travel or for other reasons, you will need to meet the Swiss government’s entry requirements. Check the Swiss Embassy what type of visa and/or work permit, if any, you may need
if you stay in Switzerland with a residence permit or long-stay visa, this does not count towards your 90-day visa-free limit
Any time you spent in Switzerland or other Schengen countries before 1 January 2021 does not count towards your 90-day visa-free limit.
At Swiss border control, you may need to queue in separate lanes from EU, EEA and Swiss citizens.
Check your passport is stamped if you enter or exit the Schengen area through Switzerland as a visitor. Border guards will use passport stamps to check you’re complying with the 90-day visa-free limit for short stays in the Schengen area. If relevant entry or exit stamps are not in your passport, border guards will presume that you have overstayed your visa-free limit.
You can show evidence of when and where you entered or exited the Schengen area, and ask the border guards to add this date and location in your passport. Examples of acceptable evidence include boarding passes and tickets.
You may also need to:
show a return or onward ticket
show you have enough money for your stay
If you are resident in Switzerland your passport should not be stamped. You should proactively show your proof of residence as well as your valid passport at Swiss border control. For further information, see our Living in Switzerland guide.
Passport validity
If you are planning to travel to an EU country (except Ireland), or Switzerland, Norway, Iceland, Liechtenstein, Andorra, Monaco, San Marino or Vatican City, you must meet the Schengen area rules.
Your passport must meet 2 requirements. It must be:
less than 10 years old on the day you enter (check the ‘date of issue’)
valid for at least 3 months after the day you plan to leave (check the ‘expiry date’)
We are asking the European Commission to clarify the 10-year rule. Their guidance for Schengen border guards may not be updated until the spring of 2022. Until then, for some Schengen countries your passport may need to be less than 10 years old during your whole visit, and the 3 months at the end of your visit may need to be within 10 years of your passport’s issue date.
Check both the issue date and the expiry date in your passport. If you renewed your passport early, extra months may have been added to its expiry date. This could affect the requirement for your passport to be less than 10 years old.
Contact your travel provider or embassy of the country you are visiting if you think that your passport does not meet both these requirements. Renew your passport if you need to.
Customs regulations
For information and advice about Swiss customs regulations, visit the official website of the Federal Customs Administration.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are accepted for entry, airside transit and exit from Switzerland.
Working in Switzerland
If you intend to work in Switzerland, you should get detailed information on employment regulations from the State Secretariat for Migration.
