Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

There are still commercial options to return to the UK from Switzerland.
If you live in the UK and are currently visiting Switzerland, you’re strongly advised to return now by commercial means. Don’t risk getting stranded.
UK special charter flights will only operate for priority countries where commercial flights are not possible. You should not assume that these flights will become available in Switzerland because commercial routes are operating. Please do not contact the contracted travel management company if no flight is advertised here.
Flights
Flights to London are available from Zurich and Geneva. SWISS is currently the only airline operating commercial flights to the UK.
You should check the carrier’s website for the latest flight schedule and availability.
If you’re trying to get back to the UK and need financial help, see the FCO’s guide on financial assistance.
Transit
If you are transiting Switzerland from elsewhere in the world, you are strongly advised to have your onward travel booked in advance.
Travelling to the airport
Swiss Federal Railways (SBB / CFF/ FFS) continue to operate to airports with a reduced service. From 11 May, standard timetables will resume.
You should check the Swiss Federal Railways website before starting your journey.
Rail
Swiss Federal Railways (SBB / CFF/ FFS) continue to operate to airports with a reduced service. From 11 May, standard timetables will resume.
International rail services from Switzerland to neighbouring countries have been suspended until further notice. You may be able to take cross-border regional connections as an alternative.
You should check the Swiss Federal Railways website before starting your journey.
Road
If you plan to return to the UK by road, it is possible to transit through neighbouring countries if:
You have evidence of your onward journey and;
Do not show symptoms of illness that could indicate a coronavirus infection.
An example of ‘acceptable evidence’ would include a confirmed ferry or Eurotunnel booking to the UK.
If you are planning on travelling through France to return to the UK, the French government have implemented their own measures, including required documents for travel into, and transit through, France. If you are planning to use this route, check the latest travel advice for France ahead of your journey.
As with other forms of transport, many cross-Channel operators are operating substantially reduced services for passenger traffic. Passengers should check with their operator before departing, and may still be subject to severe disruption.
You should check the travel advice for any country that you will transit on the way back to the UK.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Arrival in the UK
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British Embassy on +41 (0)31 359 77 00. The Embassy cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone.
Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British Embassy Berne on Twitter and Facebook.
Further information
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
