Coronavirus guidance is being updated.
Read the Prime Minister’s statement for the latest information.

This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Switzerland as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Switzerland to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Switzerland
For information on entry to Switzerland, see Entry requirements
The Swiss government have now ended their “extraordinary situation” in response to coronavirus (COVID-19), but some measures remain in place. All contact with other individuals should be at a distance of at least 1.5 metres.
Wearing face masks is strongly recommended when travelling on public transport, if it is not possible to maintain a distance of 1.5 metres from other travellers. Wearing face masks is compulsory when attending demonstrations.
All shops, restaurants, markets, museums and libraries are now able to reopen with social distancing measures in place. Restaurants are able to accommodate groups of more than four people. Events of up to 1000 people are permitted.
The public are encouraged to stay at home and employers urged to allow staff to work from home.
Further information is available from the Federal Office of Public Health in Switzerland.
Health
For contact details for English speaking doctors, visit our list of healthcare providers and healthcare for UK nationals visiting the EU
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Switzerland.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Further information is available from the Federal Office of Public Health in Switzerland.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Switzerland, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
