The FCDO advises against all but essential travel to:
the whole of Switzerland based on the current assessment of COVID-19 risks.
Travel is subject to entry restrictions
Due to COVID-19 restrictions, travellers arriving from the UK are only permitted entry to Switzerland if they are Swiss or Liechtenstein nationals; hold a Swiss or Liechtenstein residence permit; or a ‘laissez-passer’ issued by the Swiss Embassy in London for certain circumstances. Flights from the UK to Switzerland are limited
UK nationals and other non-Swiss citizens arriving from a ‘high risk country’ are not permitted entry to Switzerland. However, exemptions do apply
UK nationals who hold a residence or cross-border permit for Switzerland or Liechtenstein, or who are travelling from other Schengen countries are permitted entry
Travellers from the UK who have an exemption to enter Switzerland must quarantine for 10 days from arrival in Switzerland. From 8 February, you can reduce the quarantine period to 7 days if you can produce a new a negative COVID-19 test result (rapid antigen test or PCR) and have approval from the local cantonal authority
From 8 February, travellers arriving by air will need to present a negative COVID-19 test result (PCR), carried out less than 72 hours before arrival
Currently, travellers from the UK arriving by air must complete an online form on arrival and provide contact details. From 8 February, all travellers arriving from the UK, irrespective of mode of transport, must complete an online form on arrival and provide contact details
Travellers arriving from the UK are currently unable to transit Geneva Airport to enter France, unless you hold a residence or cross-border permit for Switzerland
See Entry requirements for more information before you plan to travel.
Preparing for your return journey to the UK
If you’re returning to the UK from overseas, you will need to:
provide your journey and contact details before you travel
check if you need to self-isolate on your return
If your return journey to the UK transits another country, you should check whether it is subject to a travel ban or any other additional requirements. If so, contact your travel provider.
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
Neighbouring countries may introduce restrictions at borders and conduct health checks. Check the travel advice for any country you need to travel to or through. See our Travel Advice for France and Germany for the latest rules for transiting those countries from/to Switzerland.
If you’re planning travel to Switzerland, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
The Department for Transport and the FCDO have jointly published separate guidance for the freight transport industry during the coronavirus pandemic.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCDO’s guidance on foreign travel insurance.
For information about COVID-19 vaccines, see the Coronavirus page.
If you’re living in or moving to Switzerland, read the Living in Switzerland guide in addition to this travel advice.
Around 1 million British nationals visit Switzerland each year. Most visits are trouble-free. There has been an increase in reports of theft, especially in larger cities, at Geneva airport and on trains to/from Geneva. See Crime.
If you plan skiing or hiking, check weather conditions and follow local advice. See Outdoor sports activities.
Terrorist attacks in Switzerland can’t be ruled out. You should remain vigilant and follow the advice of local authorities. See Terrorism
If you need to contact the emergency services, call 112 (general emergency calls), 118 (fire), 117 (police) or 144 (ambulance).
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.
The Overseas Business Risk service offers information and advice for British companies operating overseas on how to manage political, economic, and business security-related risks.
