

The UEFA Women’s Euro 2025 tournament will take place in Switzerland from 2 to 27 July 2025.
If you are travelling to attend the tournament:
Sign up to receive email alerts when travel advice is updated
Check the official Women’s Euro 2025 website
Download the official Women’s EURO 2025 app
Check relevant football and fan association websites for England and Wales
Read all of the advice in these travel advice pages, including on entry requirements and safety and security. Switzerland is not part of the EU, and many of the rules, such as data connection and what you can bring through customs, differs to other European countries.
Match tickets
Check the Euro 2025 website for ticket information and only purchase match tickets from official providers.
Match tickets bought through unofficial means may not be valid. If you sell tickets through unofficial means, you could be prosecuted.
Tickets will be electronic, and you will need your mobile phone to validate them at entry. Check with your mobile provider for information about roaming packages. Be aware, Switzerland is not part of the EU, so data connection may be different from other European countries. Buying a local eSIM to cover you for the period of the tournament is an option.
Stadium entry
Check the venues guide for information on how to enter stadiums and what you can and cannot take in with you. Each stadium will have its own rules.
You are allowed to carry a small power bank into the stadiums so that you have enough power on your phone to show your ticket.
Transport to the event
If you have a ticket for a match, the Swiss public transport provider SBB will allow you to travel for free on the day of the match, provided you can show your official UEFA ticket to staff. More information is available on the SBB website.
Transport routes around the stadiums will be busy during the tournament. Local authorities may ask you to enter or leave the stadium by specific routes. Make sure you:
plan your journey
leave plenty of time, particularly on match days
For more information on travel in Switzerland during the Euro 2025 tournament, see the official Euro 2025 website.
Fan zones
UEFA Fan Zones will be located in all cities where matches will take place, where fans can spend time before and during the matches. All 31 matches will be live-streamed in the fan zones.
Restrictions on what you can take into fan zones and live viewing areas may vary between cities.
Zurich, Lucerne, St Gallen, Basel and Geneva, will all host England and Wales matches in the group stages and later stages of the tournament. Information about fan zones and moving around the cities can be found on the official Euro 2025 website.
