The information on this page covers the most common types of travel and reflects the UK government’s understanding of the rules currently in place. Unless otherwise stated, this information is for travellers using a full ‘British Citizen’ passport.
The authorities in the country or territory you’re travelling to are responsible for setting and enforcing the rules for entry. If you’re unclear about any aspect of the entry requirements, or you need further reassurance, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
You should also consider checking with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Entry rules in response to coronavirus
Entry to Cape Verde
Cape Verde’s air and sea borders are open. You’ll need a COVID-19 RT PCR nasal swab test or an antigen test (Ag-RDT) to enter Cape Verde. The test has to be done in the last 72 hours before travel. If you do not present a COVID-19 test done in the last 72 hours, you will not be allowed to board your flight. Children under 7 do not need to present a COVID-19 test.
Prior to your travel you will need to complete:
the Airport Security Tax Form (TSA) on the EASE website and pay 3,400 escudos (approximately £30). This does not apply to visitors under 2 years of age or those who are normally resident in Cape Verde. (See Visas). If you’re travelling with a tour operator, check whether the cost of the TSA is included in your package.
an International Travel Form on the Covid19.cv website. You need to complete it online and submit it prior to your travel.
You should not use the NHS testing service to get a test in order to facilitate your travel to another country. You should arrange to take a private test.
Your temperature will be measured on arrival in Cape Verde. If your temperature is high, you will be taken to an assigned area at the airport where your temperature will be measured again. If it remains high, the Cape Verdean authorities may need you to do a COVID-19 test.
If you arrive in Cape Verde without a negative COVID-19 test, you won’t be allowed to disembark. In exceptional circumstances, the Cape Verdean authorities may allow you entry but you will have to take the test at your own expense.
You’ll need to check the conditions for travel with the airline before you book a flight.
Travelling between islands
Internal inter-island flights and passenger ferries are operational. If you’re travelling between islands, you’ll need to complete an online health surveillance form and for most of the islands you’ll need to present a COVID-19 (rapid antigen test) done in the last 72 hours before you travel.
You can check the testing requirements between inter-island flights and ferries in the FAQs on the Cabo Verde Safe site.
Children under the age of 7 are not required to present a test.
You can have a COVID-19 test (rapid antigen test) in a local municipal health facility or in a certified private laboratory no later than 72 hours prior to travel. You can book your test online on some of the islands.
You’ll need to pay 1,000 CV Escudos (around £8-£10) for the COVID-19 test (rapid antigen test), a health declaration and result certificate. You need to ensure that the fee you pay includes the health declaration and test result.
You should comply with any additional screening measures put in place by the authorities.
Visas
If you need further information about entry requirements, contact the local immigration authorities or the nearest Cape Verdean embassy. You should also check with your airline or travel company for the latest information.
Regular entry requirements
Visas
From 1 January 2019, if you have a British Citizen passport you can enter Cape Verde as a visitor for stays of up to 30 days without a visa.
In place of a visa, before travelling you should register with the Cape Verde authorities on the EASE website and, if arriving by air, pay a new Airport Security Tax (TSA) of 3,400 escudos (approximately £30). This does not apply to visitors under 2 years of age or those who are normally resident in Cape Verde. Check with your tour operator or airline what arrangements are in place for your booking, as some tour operators and airlines may complete this on your behalf and have specific registration requirements. You can find more information on the pre-registration process and TSA in this information leaflet.
If you’re travelling on a different type of British passport, are travelling for a purpose other than tourism, or intending to stay longer than 90 days, you should check entry requirements with the nearest Cape Verde Embassy:
the Cape Verde Embassy in Brussels, Ambassade du Cap-Vert, Avenue Jeanne 29, 1050, Bruxelles Telephone: +32 2 64 36 270 Fax:+32 2 64 63 385 Email: emb.caboverde@skynet.be
the Cape Verde Consulate General in the Netherlands, Baan 6, Rotterdam, 3011 CB, Telephone: +31 10 477 8977 Fax: +31 10 477 4553 Email: info@conscv.nl
the Embassy of Cape Verde, 3, Avenue El-Hadjily MBAYE, B.P. 11.269, Dakar, Senegal Telephone:+221-3382-11873/13936 Email: acvc.sen@metissacana.sn
Passport validity
Your passport should be valid for a minimum period of 6 months from the date of entry into Cape Verde.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are accepted for entry, airside transit and exit from Cape Verde.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
