Coronavirus
The Cape Verdean authorities have introduced a number of measures in response to the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. The Cape Verdean authorities have closed all sea borders and have restricted flights from the UK, US, Canada and a number of other European countries from 18 March. As of 18 March, only a restricted number of flights are allowed into the country to enable visitors to return home. Contact your tour operator or airline to make sure you have the latest information on your travel plans.
You should comply with any additional screening measures put in place by the authorities. The government of Cape Verde has set up a free helpline which you can call if you have any information or concerns about coronavirus: +238(0)800-1112. This helpline is only available in Portuguese.
If you need further information about entry requirements, contact the local immigration authorities or the nearest Cape Verdean embassy. You should also check with your airline or travel company for the latest information.
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
UK health authorities have classified Cape Verde as having a moderate risk of Zika virus transmission. There is a low risk of malaria in the capital city, Praia (Santiago Island). For more information and advice, visit the website of the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
Medical facilities in Cape Verde are limited, and some medicines are in short supply or unavailable. The largest hospitals are in Praia and Mindelo, with smaller medical facilities and clinics located throughout the country. Medical facilities are particularly limited on the island of Boavista. The islands of Brava and Santo Antão no longer have functioning airports, so air evacuation in the event of a medical emergency is extremely difficult from these two islands.
Some of the islands are mountainous, and travellers venturing into areas of altitude may suffer from altitude sickness, which can potentially be life threatening.
Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 130 (Santiago Island) and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
