There are currently no commercial options available to return to the UK from Cape Verde.
UK special flight
A special flight will depart from Sal (Amilcar Cabral International Airport) on 3 June to the UK.
The flight cost is £600 per person.
These flights are for:
British nationals, normally resident in the UK
dependants travelling with a British national
Vulnerable British nationals will be prioritised.
Vulnerable non-British UK residents with Indefinite Leave to Remain, and other foreign nationals, may be accommodated if there is sufficient capacity.
Your eligibility will be checked before your tickets are issued.
How to book
CTM is working on behalf of the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) to manage special flight bookings.
If you wish to travel, book on the CTM website as soon as possible.
To book flights on the CTM website, you will need:
full passport and contact details for each traveller
your UK home address and postcode
your means of payment, such as credit or debit card details
The booking website is only available to British nationals. If you have difficulty booking online, or if you are a vulnerable non-British UK resident with Indefinite Leave to Remain, or another foreign national, then you will need to contact us. To do so, send an SMS text message containing only your full name to +44 (0) 753 745 3868. Some international charges may apply.
A member of the CTM team will then be in touch.
Tickets will not be on sale at the airport. Do not travel to the airport without a confirmed ticket.
You may find it helpful to read our guide to eligibility and the booking process for special charter flights.
Financial support for a flight
If you have exhausted all other options available to you for getting funds you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government to cover the cost of the ticket.
You would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK.
Our partner CTM is also authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO and details will be available when you are asked to pay.
Travel to the airport
Amilcar Cabral International Airport, Sal is located near the town of Espargos. The airport is easily accessible from any part of the island.
Taxis and airport shuttles are available
You will need to wear a face mask and follow local laws such as limited capacity in taxis and any other local instructions
Your journey home
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Future Options
A small number of European repatriation flights may still occasionally operate. If you are a UK visitor, normally resident in the UK, and you would like to express your interest in an EU repatriation flights, you should use this form stating your name and which island you are on.
The Cape Verdean authorities have reopened sea borders domestically but continue with a ban on all flights between the islands
If you cannot leave Cape Verde
If you cannot leave Cape Verde at this time, see advice on staying in Cape Verde during coronavirus.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British Embassy in Lisbon, Portugal, on +351 21 392 4000. The Embassy in Lisbon provides consular support to Cape Verde.
The Embassy cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone. This page will be updated when departure options become available. To get the latest information, [sign up for travel advice email alerts
Further information
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
