

Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.    
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Cape Verde
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Cape Verde, attacks cannot be ruled out.
Crime
The crime rate in Cape Verde is generally low, but can include pickpocketing, bag snatching, burglary and muggings, particularly in the capital city of Praia and on the islands of Sal and Boa Vista. Sexual assaults are rare but have been reported.
You can take steps to protect yourself and your belongings, including:
leaving valuables somewhere secure, such as a hotel safe
keeping your belongings in sight at bars and restaurants
not carrying large amounts of cash or wearing expensive jewellery
avoiding unlit and isolated areas after dark
avoiding beaches with limited or restricted visibility
making sure your hotel or accommodation’s windows and doors are always locked
Laws and cultural differences
Illegal drugs and prison sentences
There are severe penalties for possessing, using or trafficking drugs. Penalties include fines and long prison sentences.
Buying property 
British nationals have experienced problems when buying property in Cape Verde. Before buying property on the islands, get independent qualified legal advice. See FCDO’s list of English-speaking lawyers in Cape Verde.
Outdoor activities and adventure tourism
Beaches and swimming
If you are going into the water, always use beaches where there is a lifeguard on duty.
Tides and currents around the islands are very strong. Take care when walking close to the water’s edge, especially along unsupervised stretches of beach.  Waves can be unpredictable and have a strong undertow. Follow the lifeguard’s instructions and respect the warning flags:
red means danger: do not go into the water
yellow means caution: you can walk in the water, but you cannot swim
green means it’s safe to swim
See water safety on holiday from the Royal Life Saving Society. 
Transport risks
Road travel
If you are planning to drive in Cape Verde, see information on driving abroad.
You can use a valid UK photocard driving licence to drive in Cape Verde for up to 6 months. If you still have a paper driving licence, you should update it to a photocard licence, or get the 1968 version of the international driving permit (IDP) and carry it with your licence. You will be arrested if you are found driving without a licence.
Hiring vehicles
If you hire a car, scooter or quad bike, make sure it’s in good condition and that it’s fully insured. Hire car companies often have stricter requirements for their customers, such as a year of driving experience, a higher minimum age and holding an IDP.
Quad biking is considered an extreme sport. It is unlikely that it will be included in your travel insurance policy. Check whether you need additional insurance to cover extreme sports and make sure it covers you for the cost of medical care and repatriation. Medical facilities are very basic in Cape Verde so it is highly likely that following a quad bike accident you will need to be medically evacuated.
It’s a legal requirement to wear a crash helmet when riding a scooter or quad bike. Your insurance policy may be invalidated if you have an accident and you’re not wearing a helmet.
Public transport
Only hire authorised taxis from taxi ranks or by asking your hotel to call one. On the islands of Sal and Boa Vista, authorised taxis are coloured blue and yellow.
Intercity bus services can be dangerous because of poor driving.
Sea travel
Sea conditions around Cape Verde can be dangerous. Follow local advice before travelling by sea. Travel by sea to the southern islands of Brava and Fogo in particular can often be disrupted.
Extreme weather and natural disasters
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards.
Flooding 
The rainy season in Cape Verde is from mid-August to mid-October. Torrential rains on some of the islands can cause floodings and landslides. Monitor local weather reports and expect difficulties when travelling to affected areas during this season.
Earthquakes
Seismic activity and tremors can be felt occasionally, mostly on the islands of Brava and Fogo. This is usually within the bounds of normal activity but can sometimes be dangerous. Check with your travel provider before travelling to the islands of Brava or Fogo.
Sandstorms
Sandstorms (‘bruma seca’) can happen between December and February. When intense, they can disrupt air travel, especially on the island of Boa Vista. If a sandstorm happens while you’re on one of the islands, contact your tour operator or airline.
