This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Cape Verde as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Cape Verde to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Cape Verde
For information on entering Cape Verde, see Entry Requirements
The Cape Verdean government has extended the state of emergency on the island of Santiago until 29 May.
The state of emergency measures include significant restrictions on movement on the island including between municipalities.
The other islands (including Boa Vista) are now covered by a de-confinement plan which includes:
Public places and transport
The maintenance of social distancing measures (2 metres) and hand hygiene at all times
The ongoing need for social isolation of anyone with COVID-19 symptoms
The mandatory use of non-surgical masks in enclosed spaces, such as supermarkets, shops, health centres, banks, schools, public services, ports, airports, restaurants, bars, sports/cultural/recreational establishments and on public transport.
The mandatory use of surgical masks for those over the age of 65 and those with chronic diseases at all times when outside their homes.
The ongoing civic duty to stay at home, except:
to buy food or other essential times;
to go to work if unable to work from home;
to go to hospital or health centres;
to carry out caring or similar duties or in case of real need;
to exercise outdoors and at some facilities and to walk pets.
Public gatherings are banned but religious ceremonies will resume subject to social distancing rules, use of masks, etc. Public services are accessible by appointment only and attendance at funerals is restricted to family members up to a maximum of 20 people. Restaurants, cafes and bars will be limited to 50% capacity.
For information on how to return to the UK from Cape Verde, see Return to the UK
Visas
If you need further information about entry requirements, contact the local immigration authorities or the nearest Cape Verdean embassy. You should also check with your airline or travel company for the latest information.
Accommodation
Find accommodation that is suitable for your needs. Although most hotel accommodation is closed, there is self-catering accommodation available.
Health
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Cape Verde.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Capre Verde, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
The government of Cape Verde has set up a free helpline. which you can call if you have any information or concerns about coronavirus: +238(0)800-1112. This helpline is only available in Portuguese.
