The FCDO advises against all but essential travel to:
the whole of Cape Verde based on the current assessment of COVID-19 risks.
Direct flights from Cape Verde to the UK are prohibited. Visitors who have been in or transited through Cape Verde in the previous 10 days cannot enter England. British and Irish nationals, and third country nationals with residence rights in the UK arriving in England from Cape Verde will be required to quarantine in a hotel. Different rules apply for arrivals into Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland.
From 1 January onwards people with residence rights include: holders of Indefinite Leave to Remain; holders of existing leave to enter or remain (i.e those with biometric Residence permits) or an entry clearance/visa that grants such leave e.g. students, workers, etc (excluding visit visas); holders of EU Settlement Scheme (“EUSS”) leave; those who have rights of entry under the Withdrawal Agreements (including returning residents with a right of residence under the EEA Regulations and EEA frontier workers); family members of EEA nationals with rights under the Withdrawal Agreement.
Travel to Cape Verde is subject to entry restrictions
Cape Verde’s borders are open. If you’re travelling to Cape Verde you will need to have a COVID-19 test done in the last 72 hours before you travel.
See Entry requirements for more information before you plan to travel.
Preparing for your return journey to the UK
If you’re returning to the UK from overseas, you will need to:
provide your journey and contact details before you travel
check if you need to self-isolate on your return
If your return journey to the UK transits another country, you should check whether it is subject to a travel ban or any other additional requirements. If so, contact your travel provider.
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
If you’re planning travel to Cape Verde, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCDO’s guidance on foreign travel insurance.
For information about COVID-19 vaccines, see the Coronavirus page.
Most visits to Cape Verde are trouble-free, but you should take sensible precautions against petty crime. See Crime.
UK health authorities have classified Cape Verde as having a moderate risk of Zika virus transmission. There is also a low risk of malaria in the capital city, Praia (Santiago Island). For more information and advice, visit the website of the National Travel Health Network and Centre website. See Health
Many British nationals have experienced serious problems when buying property in Cape Verde. Before buying property anywhere on the islands, you should seek independent qualified legal advice. See our list of English speaking lawyers in Cape Verde.
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Cape Verde, attacks cannot be ruled out. See Terrorism
Consular support is not available from the British government in Cape Verde as there is no British Embassy. However, the British Embassy Lisbon in Portugal can provide consular support to British nationals.
