!
Warning
FCDO advises against all travel to parts of Palestine.
!
Warning
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to parts of Palestine.

This travel advice covers Israel and the Palestine.
This section has safety advice for regions of Israel and Palestine. It only covers regions where FCDO has specific advice.
You should also read FCDO’s overall travel advice and safety and security advice.
Jerusalem
Since 7 October Israeli authorities have limited access to Jerusalem, and Israel in general, for residents of the West Bank, enforcing age and gender-specific restrictions for entry, particularly during Ramadan. While women aged 51 or over and men aged 56 or over with special permits have been granted entry for prayers, many potential worshippers have been turned away. Additionally, there have been routine instances of physical searches and detentions.
Street protests and demonstrations can happen across Jerusalem, including East Jerusalem and the Old City. Check local news ahead of travel and follow instructions of local authorities. Avoid demonstrations and large gatherings.
There are frequent demonstrations in many of the areas visited by tourists in the Old City and after Friday prayers. Areas include in and around:
Damascus Gate
Herod’s Gate
Lion’s Gate
the Chain Gate
Some protests have led to violent clashes. Be aware of your surroundings at all times and leave the area if there is evidence of tension or unrest, for example if the shops in the souks of the Old City suddenly begin to close their shutters. The entrances to the Old City may have additional checks, or may close.
There have been a number of violent incidents on public transport and near public transport lines. Take extra care when using public transport in Jerusalem. 
Tel Aviv
Take extra care when using public transport in Tel Aviv, in particular at transport hubs, and when using buses in the greater Tel Aviv area. Consider using other forms of transport.   
There have been large political demonstrations in Tel Aviv. Entry and exit to Ben Gurion airport has occasionally been impacted during demonstrations.
Areas near Gaza
There have been repeated instances of rocket fire from Gaza, which may reach well beyond the Gaza border area. Israel has often responded with air strikes into Gaza. You should:
make sure you know the safety actions to take if an Israeli warning siren sounds  – no warning sirens will sound inside Gaza
follow advice from local authorities
stay informed of the security situation through the media
Gaza
FCDO advises against all travel to Gaza (including the waters off Gaza).
You should not approach the perimeter fence surrounding the Gaza Strip.
FCDO cannot offer routine consular assistance in Gaza. If you travel to Gaza against our advice, review your security arrangements regularly.
The border crossings with Israel (Erez) and Egypt (Rafah) may close with no notice. Check the status of the Rafah crossing into Egypt before you travel. Movement to the Rafah crossing and beyond is at your own risk. Currently, the Rafah border regularly closes with no warning and for long periods. The Erez border has been closed since October 2023.
There will be no warning siren inside Gaza and there are no official air raid shelters. Take advice from locals about the safest place to shelter.
FCDO cannot help individuals applying for entry or exit permits for Gaza. See entry requirements.
FCDO recognises that major international organisations need to carry out humanitarian and reconstruction work and engage in independent reporting and verification of the situation in Gaza. Medical and other essential specialist staff should co-ordinate their entry to and exit from Gaza with those organisations.
Do not enter Gaza by sea, including via a flotilla delivering humanitarian aid. The Israeli Navy routinely patrols the area and will prevent any vessels attempting to breach the restrictions – see entry requirements. You will be detained and deported, and your electronic equipment is likely to be confiscated. FCDO does not believe that humanitarian supplies should be delivered in this way. If you send humanitarian assistance or other goods to Gaza, use established channels.
Israel-Lebanon
There was an ongoing conflict between Israel and Lebanese Hizballah (LH). On 27 November, LH and Israel agreed to a ceasefire, with a 60-day implementation period.
There remains a risk that hostilities could reignite, and with little warning. You should check Home Front Command for the latest guidance. Restrictions may be put in place at short notice. If travelling near military operation areas, follow all Israeli official instructions.
Military activity continues on the Israel-Lebanon border. Keep up to date with the news while travelling. See also section on Conflict with Lebanese Hizballah.
Israel-Syria border
FCDO advises against all travel within 500m of the border with Syria (the ‘Alpha Line’).
The situation is fragile, with military exchanges either side of the border. If you’re travelling in the area, be aware of your personal security, check local media and follow advice from local authorities.
Occupied Golan Heights
FCDO advises against all travel within 500m of the Area of Separation in the occupied Golan Heights (the ‘Alpha line’). Do not attempt to enter the occupied Golan Heights through Syria.
FCDO advises against all travel to the Sheba’a Farms and Ghajjar.
Following the conflict between Israel and Lebanese Hizballah, a ceasefire was agreed on 27 November. There remains a risk that hostilities could reignite, and with little warning. Check Home Front Command for the latest guidance. In the occupied Golan Heights, restrictions may be put in place at short notice. Rocket attacks and sporadic gunfire occur without warning. There is also a risk of falling debris from Israeli and Syrian air defence systems.
Landmines have been planted across the occupied Golan Heights, including near to populated areas and roads. These areas are usually marked and often fenced off. Follow established roads and paths. FCDO long-standing advice has been to not hike off-trail. If you’re in the region, follow advice from local law enforcement.
Border with Egypt
The security situation on the border with Egypt is volatile. Take extra care when using the Route 10 road, which runs along the Israeli border with Egypt. Route 10 is sometimes closed by the Israeli authorities. Consider using other routes.
There are frequent clashes between Israeli Security Forces and Palestinians in these areas and violent incidents can occur without warning.
West Bank
There has been a heightened state of tension and violent clashes resulting in deaths in the West Bank since the outbreak of conflict in October 2023.
Expect road closures and numerous checkpoints across the West Bank.
There are no warning sirens or official air raid shelters inside the West Bank, outside of Israeli settlements.
You cannot travel into or out of the West Bank without passing through at least one Israeli military checkpoint. You need a passport and immigration slip to go through these checkpoints. Checkpoints may be closed during Jewish high holidays, Israeli public holidays and periods of increased instability restricting movement in and out of the West Bank. This does not normally affect foreign nationals, but would affect British-Palestinian dual nationals. Road closures can occur with little notice. Keep up to date with local travel advice through local media, and international information outlets like the UN’s Access Coordination Unit.
The cities of Bethlehem, Ramallah and Jericho see large numbers of tourists including on organised tours, although tourist numbers have reduced since 7 October 2023. While there have been no recent reports of any serious incidents involving foreigners, you should take care when travelling anywhere in the West Bank.
Violent incidents
There is a risk of violent incidents and demonstrations in the West Bank (see Political situation for details). If you are in a location where an Israeli security operation or armed clashes are ongoing, stay inside and wait for the local authorities to confirm that the situation is calm before moving to a different location.
Israelis living in the illegal settlements in the West Bank occasionally organise demonstrations which can turn violent. There are reports that settlers have threatened people travelling near to settlements and settlement outposts. Take care if you are near settlements, including those in the hills around Nablus, in the South Hebron hills and settlement outposts.
There is a closed military zone in the H2 area of Hebron (around Ash-Shuhada Street and the Ibrahimi Mosque/Tomb of the Patriarchs), where there is a risk of a hostile reaction from members of extremist groups.
Be particularly cautious if considering a visit to:
Hebron or Palestinian refugee camps which have previously been the site of violent clashes – FCDO advises against all travel to the camps in Jenin and Nablus
settlements and settlement outposts where there have been recent violent incidents – for example, near Beit El, Homesh, Shilo, Evyatar
Avoid these locations after dark.
Incidents have also occurred along Route 60 (especially junctions near Nablus), Route 443 and other West Bank arterial roads used by both Palestinians and Israelis. Use extreme caution on these routes, particularly at night, and leave if you see any signs of a disturbance.
Transport in the West Bank
We advise you not to use taxis in the West Bank, because of their involvement in a significant number of accidents.
Avoid using buses in the West Bank and consider the difficulties and risks of travelling between Jerusalem and Ramallah via checkpoints, along Route 60 (especially the junctions near Nablus), Route 443 and other West Bank arterial roads used by both Palestinians and Israelis.
