Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for St Vincent and the Grenadines on the TravelHealthPro website.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
You should contact local authorities for information on testing facilities.
International travel
On 13 October 2021, Virgin Atlantic commenced a twice-weekly service between London Heathrow (LHR) and Argyle International Airport (SVD) on St Vincent. Flights are on Wednesdays and Sundays and involve a short layover on Barbados but no changing of planes. Alternatively, there a range of indirect options, for example connecting on smaller flights to SVG in Barbados. There are also direct flights between St Vincent and Miami and, as of late October, New York, on American Airlines and Caribbean Airways respectively. Air Canada’s service between St Vincent and Toronto recommence on 3 November 2022.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements
Returning to the UK
Travelling from and returning to the UK
Check what you must do to travel abroad and return to England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
If you plan to pass through another country to return to the UK, check the travel advice for the country you’re transiting.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in St Vincent and the Grenadines
Coronavirus related restrictions have remained steady. Mask-wearing, standard hygiene measures and social distancing are all strongly recommended. You are also required to wear face-masks and use sanitizer in many taxis, minibuses and shops, and in government buildings.
The St Vincent and the Grenadines authorities will seek to prosecute people who breach COVID-19 protocols, including those who break quarantine protocols, which may result in a fine and/or prison sentence.
Accommodation
Most hotels and private rentals have re-opened to the public. If making a booking, you should check whether there are any coronavirus restrictions or protocols to observe.
Public places and services
Although the restriction on mass gatherings has now been lifted, mask wearing is still recommended. Most, if not all, shops, businesses or public offices require customers to wear face masks, to wash or sanitize hands before entry, and to adhere to 3 - 6 feet space markings when queuing. COVID protocol documents are available from the Ministry of Health and the Environment.
Healthcare
For contact details of English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in St Vincent and the Grenadines.
The St Vincent and the Grenadines Emergency Medical Service is asking the public to call the COVID-19 inquiries hotline on (+1 784) 534 4325 or e-mail coronavirustaskforcesvg@gmail.com if they suspect they might have contracted the virus, been exposed to it, or any other matters relating to the virus. Travellers requiring exit screening COVID-19 PCR tests are asked to utilize the services of private laboratories.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in St Vincent and the Grenadines
We will update this page when the Government of St Vincent and the Grenadines announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
St Vincent and the Grenadines’ national vaccination programme started in February 2021 and is principally using the AstraZeneca, Sputnik V and Pfizer-BioNTech vaccines. The Government of St Vincent and the Grenadines has stated that British nationals resident in St Vincent and the Grenadines are eligible for vaccination if they choose to join the programme. The St Vincent and the Grenadines’ Ministry of Health is strongly encouraging all residents to get fully vaccinated against COVID-19. Most clinics across the country are now offering the vaccine free of charge.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in St Vincent and the Grenadines, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
