This page has information on travelling to St Vincent and the Grenadines. Check what you must do to return to the UK.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport from the UK, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in St Vincent and the Grenadines set and enforce entry rules.
All travellers
The entry requirements into St Vincent and the Grenadines vary depending upon country of origin and are subject to review or change on a regular basis. You should consult the St Vincent and the Grenadines’ entry protocol documents for the full and latest information.
There is one direct (with a short layover remaining on the plane in Barbados) commercial flight from the UK to St Vincent and the Grenadines – Virgin Atlantic on Wednesdays and Sundays from London Heathrow to Argyle International Airport on St Vincent. If a non-direct option via a transit country (e.g. Barbados) is used, entry requirements may well be different to those of St Vincent and the Grenadines. You should check the travel advice of the country through which you are transiting en route to St Vincent and the Grenadines before you travel.
If you’re fully vaccinated
From 13 June 2022, fully vaccinated visitors to St. Vincent and the Grenadines no longer need to complete a pre-arrival travel form or undertake a COVID test prior to arrival but will be required to show proof of vaccination at port of entry. You should consult the St Vincent and the Grenadines’ entry protocol documents for full details.
If you’re fully vaccinated, you can enter St Vincent and the Grenadines without needing to quarantine.
Proof of vaccination status
You must present proof that you have been fully vaccinated to enter St Vincent and the Grenadines.
St Vincent and the Grenadines will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 recovery and vaccination record and proof of COVID-19 vaccination issued in the Crown Dependencies. Your final vaccine dose must have been administered at least 14 days prior to travel. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
If you’re not fully vaccinated
From 25 August 2022, unvaccinated travellers to St. Vincent and the Grenadines no longer have to complete a pre-arrival travel form but must arrive with a negative SARS-CoV-2 COVID-19 test result. This may be either a negative result of a COVID-19 RT-PCR done no more than seventy-two (72) hours or three (3) days before arrival, or a negative SARS-CoV-2 antigen test done 24 hours before arrival.
You should not use the NHS testing service to get a test in order to facilitate your travel to St Vincent and the Grenadines. You should arrange to take a private test.
Furthermore, you:
(a) may be retested for COVID-19 on arrival in SVG;
(b) you will no longer need to mandatory quarantine in a Tourism Authority/MOHWE approved facility if the arrival COVID-19 test is negative. If the arrival COVID-19 test is positive, the traveller will isolate in a Tourism Authority/MOHWE approved Transition/Quarantine Hotel at their cost. A reservation for a Tourism Authority/MOHWE approved Transition/Quarantine Hotel is therefore no longer required for travel to SVG
(c) must be retested between day three (3) and day four (4) of quarantine.
You should consult the St Vincent and the Grenadines’ entry protocol documents for full details, , including the requirements for discharge from isolation.
Children and young people
Children aged 18 and under must follow the same rules as their parent or guardian.
Exemptions
There are currently no exemptions to the COVID-19 requirements in St Vincent and the Grenadines.
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
You should check with your travel provider to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Passport validity
If you are visiting St Vincent and the Grenadines, your passport should be valid for 6 months from the date you arrive.
Visas
British passport holders don’t need a visa to visit St Vincent and the Grenadines.
On entry, you will be granted a specified period to stay. If you wish to stay longer, you must apply and pay for an extension of stay through the St Vincent Immigration Department.
It’s an offence to overstay the entry period or to work without a work permit.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents are accepted for entry, airside transit and exit from St Vincent and the Grenadines.
Entry requirements may change from time to time. You should check with the St Vincent High Commission in London before you travel.
Foot and mouth disease
Import licences are required for the import of any foodstuffs to the island.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
Departure tax
Departure tax is included in the flight costs.
Returning to the UK
Check what you must do to return to the UK.
