Visit your health professional at least 4 to 6 weeks before your trip to check whether you need any vaccinations or other preventive measures.
Check the latest country-specific information and advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website or from NHS (Scotland) on the fitfortravel website. Useful information and advice about healthcare abroad is also available on the NHS Choices website.
UK health authorities have classified St Vincent and the Grenadines as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For information and advice about the risks associated with Zika virus, visit the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Dengue fever is endemic to Latin America and the Caribbean and can occur throughout the year.
Cases of Chikungunya virus have been confirmed in St Vincent and the Grenadines. You should take steps to avoid being bitten by mosquitoes.
The main government hospital can cope with many types of treatment but serious cases may mean emergency evacuation.
Medical treatment in St Vincent and the Grenadines can be expensive.
Make sure that you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment and repatriation.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 911 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment. Before choosing to be treated at a private facility, you should check their policies on pre-payment. Private clinics may not accept medical travel insurance as payment for treatment.
Coronavirus
The Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advises against all but essential travel to St Vincent and the Grenadines. There is one confirmed case of coronavirus (COVID-19) in St Vincent and the Grenadines. The St Vincent and the Grenadines authorities have introduced a number of measures to limit the spread of the virus, including mandatory two-week quarantine for anyone that has visited China, South Korea, Iran and Italy, in the last 14 days.
In addition, from 23 March all persons arriving from the United Kingdom, the United States of America and European Union Member Countries will be required to self-quarantine for 14 days.
All persons with a travel history to countries not listed above will only be allowed entry once no symptoms of the COVID-19 virus are exhibited.
Quarantine of non-residents will be at the expense of the traveller.
The St Vincent and the Grenadines Emergency Medical Service is asking the public to call the COVID-19 inquiries hotline on (+1 784) 534 4325 if they suspect they might have contracted the virus, been exposed to or any other matters relating to the virus.
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
