Coronavirus guidance is being updated.
Read the Prime Minister’s address for the latest information.

We are assessing British nationals’ interest in a chartered flight from St Vincent. If you are looking to return to the UK, let us know by registering your details on our online form.
There are currently no commercial options available to return to the UK from St. Vincent and the Grenadines or from Barbados as British Airways and Virgin have suspended their services to and from Grantley Adams International Airport. Regional airline LIAT has suspended all operations.
What to do
If you cannot leave St. Vincent and the Grenadines at this time, you should:
follow the advice of local authorities, including local measures to help minimise your risk of exposure to coronavirus. The St Vincent and the Grenadines Ministry of Health, Wellness and the Environment has a coronavirus hotline staffed by public health officers 24 hours a day on (+1 784) 534 4325
find accommodation that’s suitable for your needs
keep in regular contact with family and friends at home, so they know you are safe and well
See more information and advice about staying where you are if you cannot return to the UK.
Future travel options
We are assessing British nationals’ interest in a chartered flight from St Vincent. If you are looking to return to the UK, let us know by registering your details on our online form.
Where possible, British Nationals in St Vincent and the Grenadines should monitor the following social media platforms for the latest available information on departure options:
Facebook: UKinBarbadosandEasternCaribbean
Twitter: UKinCaribbean
Instagram: UKinCaribbean
You should also sign up for travel advice email alerts
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Your journey home
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British High Commission Bridgetown on + 1 246 430 7800. The High Commission cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone.
Further information
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
