

Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. You should remain vigilant at all times.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in St Vincent and the Grenadines
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in St Vincent and the Grenadines, attacks cannot be ruled out.
Crime
Protecting your belongings
Most visits are trouble-free, but there have been crimes including murder, robbery and assault.
Take precautions such as:
avoiding isolated areas, including beaches, after dark
keeping valuables secure and out of sight
making sure your accommodation is secure, including if you’re staying on a yacht
Do not carry large amounts of cash or jewellery. If possible, leave valuables and travel documents in a safety deposit box or hotel safe.
Carnival
St Vincent and the Grenadines’ Vincy Mas carnival takes place in early July. Theft and opportunistic crime may increase during carnival. Only use licensed taxis and take particular care at late-night street parties.
Drink spiking
Do not leave drinks unattended. You should:
be cautious at crowded events
have a clear plan to get home safely after an evening out
Laws and cultural differences
Illegal drugs and prison sentences
There are severe penalties for all drug offences. Pack your own luggage and do not carry anything through customs for anyone else.
Laws on clothing 
It’s illegal for anyone, including children, to dress in camouflage clothing. 
LGBT+ travellers
Attitudes towards the LGBT+ community are mostly conservative throughout the Caribbean. LGBT+ travellers should be aware that showing affection in public may attract unwanted and negative attention. Some homosexual acts are illegal.
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Outdoor activities and adventure tourism
Swimming safety
Some beaches may have strong undercurrents known as riptides. Not all beaches have lifeguards or flag warning systems. Make sure you follow any local advice.
See more information on safe swimming on ABTA’s swim safe webpages.
Transport risks
Road travel
If you’re planning to drive in St Vincent and the Grenadines, see information on driving abroad.
You must get a local temporary driving licence. Car hire companies will usually help with this process. You must show a valid UK driving licence to get your temporary licence.
Driving standards
You should:
watch out for potholes and speed bumps
take care on minor roads where there can be very steep drops with no safety barriers
watch out for blind corners on narrow roads
keep car doors locked when driving – do not stop if you’re flagged down by pedestrians
If you’re involved in an accident, call the police and do not move the vehicle. If the accident happens at night in a remote area, drive to the nearest police station.
Be aware that:
pedestrians often walk on the roads
drivers do not always use indicators
some roads are unlit at night
road signs and hazards may not be visible
taxi vans make random stops
Taxis
Taxis are not metered. There are set fares for most destinations. Agree the fare in local currency with the driver before you set off. You can often pay in US dollars instead of East Caribbean dollars.
Extreme weather and natural disasters
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards.
Hurricanes
The hurricane season in the Caribbean runs from June to November. Monitor local and international weather updates from the World Meteorological Organization and the US National Hurricane Center and follow the advice of local authorities, including any evacuation orders.
Earthquakes
Earthquakes are a risk. The US Federal Emergency Management Agency website has advice about what to do before, during and after an earthquake.
Volcanic eruptions
The last explosive eruption of La Soufrière volcano on St Vincent was in 2021.
You should also monitor the alert level of the underwater volcano Kick ‘em Jenny, located 5 miles off the coast of nearby Grenada. Keep out of maritime exclusion zones and follow the advice of local authorities if there is increased volcanic activity or an eruption.
