Coronavirus guidance is being updated.
Read the Prime Minister’s statement for the latest information.

This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in St Vincent and the Grenadines as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in St Vincent and the Grenadines to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in St Vincent and the Grenadines
For information on entering St Vincent and the Grenadines, see Entry Requirements
There are local travel restrictions in place in St Vincent and the Grenadines. These include social distancing and no more than 30 customers allowed in the main supermarkets at any one time.
The St Vincent and the Grenadines Emergency Medical Service is asking the public to call the COVID-19 inquiries hotline on (+1 784) 534 4325 or e-mail coronavirustaskforcesvg@gmail.com if they suspect they might have contracted the virus, been exposed to it, or any other matters relating to the virus.
Health
For contact details of English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in St Vincent and the Grenadines.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in St Vincent and the Grenadines, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, you should contact your local British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephones numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
