From 4 July, St Vincent and the Grenadines is exempt from the FCO advice against all non-essential international travel. This is based on the current assessment of COVID-19 risks.
Travel to St Vincent and the Grenadines is subject to entry restrictions
From 1 July 2020, the new entry requirements into St Vincent and the Grenadines for all travellers include:
PCR testing and quarantine. All travellers entering St Vincent and the Grenadines must have a negative PCR COVID-19 test result done within five (5) days of arrival or will have a PCR COVID-19 test done on arrival. All travellers who have a PCR COVID-19 test done on arrival will be quarantined for at least 24 hours (usual period, in practice, is 48 hours) to await their PCR test results.
If the test is obtained outside of St Vincent and the Grenadines, it should clearly state what the test is (e.g. PCR COVID-19 test) and the date on which it was carried out.
All travellers who arrive by air will be quarantined for at least 24 hours to await the PCR test results of all passengers from the same flight.
Quarantine can either be done at the traveller’s private residence in St Vincent and the Grenadines or at a government-approved hotel.
See Entry requirements for more information before you plan to travel.
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
If you’re travelling to St Vincent and the Grenadines during coronavirus, see the Coronavirus page for more information.
Take out comprehensive travel and medical insurance before you travel. During the COVID-19 pandemic it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check your cover. See the FCO’s guidance on foreign travel insurance.
Although there are no direct flights between the UK and St Vincent and the Grenadines, there are now options for travelling indirectly. Fly One Caribbean has commenced flights from St Vincent to Barbados (permitting onward connections on British Airways), and American Airlines has resumed flights from St Vincent to Miami. Air Canada also currently scheduled to resume flights from St Vincent to Toronto.
Most visits to St Vincent and the Grenadines are trouble-free, but there have been incidents of crime including murder, robbery and assault. See Crime
The hurricane season normally runs from June to November. Because of Tropical Storm Gonzalo, a Tropical Storm Warning is in place for St Vincent and the Grenadines. This means tropical storm conditions are possible. You should follow and monitor local and international weather updates from the US National Hurricane Centre and follow the advice of local authorities, including any evacuation orders. See Natural disasters
UK health authorities have classified St Vincent and the Grenadines as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For information and advice about the risks associated with Zika virus, visit the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
Cases of Chikungunya virus have been confirmed in St Vincent and the Grenadines. You should take steps to avoid being bitten by mosquitoes.
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in St Vincent and the Grenadines, attacks can’t be ruled out. See Terrorism
Consular support is not available from the British High Commission in Kingstown. However, the British High Commission in Bridgetown, Barbados can provide consular support to British nationals.
