Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Uganda on the TravelHealthPro website.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
Land borders are open to cargo and registered tourist vehicles only. Commercial flights are operating to and from Uganda. Check with your travel company for the latest information on flights.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Uganda.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements. You should contact local authorities for information on testing facilities.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Uganda
It is mandatory for everyone aged 6 or above to wear a face mask when outside your house. Further guidance is available from the Ministry of Health website.
As of 18 June the curfew has been extended from 7pm to 5:30am. Passengers travelling on flights departing during curfew hours (7pm to 5:30am) will be allowed to travel to the airport upon presentation of a valid ticket.
From 18 June 2021 until 30 July 2021 all movement by public transport and private vehicles is prohibited. There are limited exceptions to this, including for cargo vehicles, vehicles carrying patients to medical facilities, registered tourist vehicles, emergency vehicles and essential worker vehicles. The Ugandan authorities will define and communicate sectors are included as essential and therefore able to use vehicular transport. If you are unclear whether your vehicle is included within these restrictions you should consult the Ugandan authorities or your tour operator.
Boda bodas (motorbike taxis) are not permitted to carry passengers but can carry cargo, but must stop operating by 5pm.
Accommodation
Hotels and restaurants are open with social distancing measures in place and food delivery services remain operational outside of curfew hours though may be impacted by the 5pm restriction on motorbikes and mopeds. As of the 6 June, lodges may remain open but must close their bar.
Public places and services
All public gatherings, other than those related to Uganda’s legislative or judicial processes, have been banned until 22 July 2021.
As of 18 June 2021, food markets and retail shops (including pharmacies) may remain open. Other service sectors must close until 30 July. Bars and night clubs are specifically prohibited from operating. On 6 June, the Government stated that house parties are banned and cinemas closed.
As of 18 June 2021, places of worship will be closed and sports events prohibited until 30 July. Marriages and funerals are permitted but with a maximum of 20 attendees and must observe COVID rules strictly. All schools and other educational institutions are closed from 18 June 2021 to 30 July 2021.
Healthcare in Uganda
There are a number of public and private COVID-19 tests centres in Uganda. For further information on the outbreak in Uganda, please see the Ugandan Government COVID-19 Response website.
If a foreign national tests positive for COVID-19 and wishes to be repatriated for treatment outside of Uganda, they will be expected to cover the costs themselves.
For contact details for English speaking doctors, if you are running low on medication or require emergency medical treatment, you should contact one of the medical practitioners on this list. They will be able to discuss your situation over the phone and advise on the best course of action. Some hospitals and pharmacies are able to deliver medication to you. All major pharmacies in Kampala and surrounding towns are able to read and understand prescriptions issued by UK doctors. UK issued prescriptions are accepted but you should be aware that pharmacies in Uganda do not always stock the same range of medication found in UK pharmacies. British nationals are therefore advised to travel with adequate stocks of their medication for the duration of their stay in Uganda.
A significant rise in COVID-19 cases in June and July 2021 has placed the Ugandan healthcare system under severe strain. The already limited facilities outside of Kampala are particularly affected.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Uganda.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Uganda
Wherever possible British nationals should aim to be vaccinated in the country where they live. As further information is available about the national vaccination programme, this page will be updated. Sign up to get email notifications.
The Ugandan Ministry of Health’s national COVID19 vaccination programme began on 10 March 2021. If you are resident in Uganda you can access the vaccine in line with the eligibility requirements and order of prioritisation as set out by the Ministry of Health. More information is available at the Ministry of Heath’s COVID-19 vaccination webpage.
You should continue to monitor the Ugandan Ministry of Health website and twitter for further information on how to obtain the vaccine.
The Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) is the UK authority responsible for assessing the safety, quality and efficacy of vaccines. It has authorised the Pfizer/BioNTech, Oxford/AstraZeneca and Moderna vaccines for temporary supply and use in the UK. Find out more about MHRA approval for these vaccines.
British nationals living overseas should seek medical advice from their local healthcare provider in the country where they reside. Information about vaccines used in other national programmes, including regulatory status, should be available from the local authorities. This list of Stringent Regulatory Authorities recognised by the World Health Organisation may also be a useful source of additional information. Find out more information about the COVID-19 vaccines on the World Health Organization COVID-19 vaccines page.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British High Commission Kampala on 0312 312000 or +44 1908 516 666.
