This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Uganda set and enforce entry rules. For further information contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to. You should also consider checking with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Entry rules in response to coronavirus
Entry to Uganda
The Ministry of Health has announced that the new COVID-19 arrival requirements, which were due to begin on 3 September 2021, have been postponed until the 17 September.
All arriving passengers are required to provide a negative COVID-19 test certificate issued no more than 72 hours before boarding the aircraft to Uganda or crossing land borders. Foreign nationals without a valid negative test certificate will be denied entry. Until 3 September children aged three and under are exempt when accompanying parents arrive with a negative test certificate.
Travellers from the United Kingdom, Ethiopia, Kenya, South Africa, South Sudan, Tanzania, Turkey, the United Arab Emirates and the United States who enter Uganda before 17 September are also required to undergo PCR testing at the border at their own expense, including at Entebbe International Airport. This applies unless they have received their full COVID-19 vaccination, can provide evidence of this and show no COVID-19 symptoms. (See ‘Demonstrating your COVID-19 vaccination status’).
From 17 September all travellers (including children aged three and under), irrespective of country of origin or vaccination status, will be required to provide a negative COVID-19 test certificate on arrival and additionally undergo PCR testing (at their own expense) on arrival at all points of entry including at Entebbe International Airport.
The cost of the PCR test on arrival is $65. Passengers who arrive by air will be taken from the airport to a nearby testing site. Test results will take up to 4 hours. Travellers have the option of waiting at the testing site for their results or checking into a designated hotel at their own expense. Adults over the age of 18 who test positive will be taken to a Ministry of Health designated COVID-19 isolation facility. Children under 18 who test positive will be allowed to undergo home quarantine with their parent or guardian.
From 20 August 2021 passengers who have been in India in the previous 14 days are permitted entry into Uganda but will be required to undergo a mandatory PCR test on arrival, at their own expense, regardless of their vaccination status.
Passengers arriving or departing from Entebbe International Airport can only be picked up or dropped off by a maximum of two people, including the driver, in order to avoid crowding.
Vehicles with more than the authorised number of people will not be allowed access to the airport.
You should not use the NHS testing service to get a test in order to facilitate your travel to another country. Some airlines have refused to allow passengers who have used NHS tests to travel. You should arrange to take a private test.
Demonstrating your COVID-19 vaccination status
Uganda has not yet confirmed that it will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 recovery and vaccination record. You should follow the entry rules for unvaccinated people. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination.
Testing/Screening on arrival
Arriving passengers will be subject to temperature checks and will be screened for infectious diseases by the Port Health authorities. If a passengers shows signs or symptoms of any infectious disease they will taken by ambulance to a local isolation centre to undergo a COVID-19 test at their own cost. Test results will be returned within 24 to 48 hours; passengers will be expected to remain at the isolation centre until the test results are returned.
If a foreign national tests positive for COVID-19 and wishes to be repatriated for treatment outside of Uganda, they will be expected to cover the costs themselves.
Testing / screening on departure
Departing passengers are required to present a negative COVID-19 PCR test certificate, issued no more than 72 hours before travel. The 72 hours begins on the day the sample is collected for testing. Children aged three and under are exempt when accompanying parents have a negative test certificate.
COVID-19 tests taken for the purpose of travel outside of Uganda have to be paid for, even if the test is taken at a government testing centre. From 23 November 2020, all COVID-19 test certificates issued in Uganda must indicate the intended purpose of the test. Only test certificates which state travel as the intended purpose will be valid for departure from Uganda. Test certificates which state contact or alert will not be valid for travel.
There are a number of public and private COVID-19 test centres in Uganda. For further information, please see the government COVID-19 Response website.
Departing passengers will be required to wear a face mask inside the terminal and will be subject to temperature checks. Social distancing will also be in place and only passengers with valid tickets and airport officials will be allowed into the terminal building. Passengers are advised to arrive at the airport at least 4 hours before departure.
Passengers travelling on flights departing during curfew hours (7pm to 5:30am) will be allowed to travel to the airport upon presentation of a valid ticket.
Regular entry requirements
Visas 
You’ll need a visa to enter Uganda. You can apply for a visa at the Ugandan High Commission in London or apply online for an ‘e-visa’. You can find full details of how to apply on the website of the Ugandan High Commission in London. You should give yourself sufficient time to apply for a visa and make sure when applying that the start date and validity covers the period you wish to travel.
You can also apply for an East African Tourist Visa. This is valid for 90 days and allows multiple entry into Kenya, Rwanda and Uganda. You can apply for this visa on the ‘e-visa’ website.
Immigration offices in Uganda have now been re-opened. The Ministry of Internal Affairs have advised that fines accrued for overstaying visa or permits from 18 March to 9 June 2020 are waived. Discretion to waive fines outside of this period lies with the Commissioner of Immigration. Cases will be considered on a case-by-case basis. Foreign nationals can submit an enquiry via the Directorate’s web based form.
For more information about entry requirements, visit the Ugandan Directorate of Citizenship and Immigration Control website.
Passport validity
Your passport should be valid for a minimum period of 6 months from the date of entry into Uganda.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are accepted for entry, airside transit and exit from Uganda. ETDs must be valid for 6 months for entry into Uganda. A police report for lost/stolen passports is required for departure on an ETD.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
