!
Warning
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to parts of Uganda.

LGBT+
Same sex activity is illegal and not tolerated in Uganda’s conservative society.
On 30 May 2023 an anti-homosexuality act was brought into law in Uganda. The act includes harsh prison sentences, and the death penalty in some cases, for same sex sexual activity and also for supporting or promotion of LGBT+ rights.
The following actions are illegal:
Sexual activity with someone of the same sex, which carries the punishment of life imprisonment and up to 10 years for attempted sexual activity.
Aggravated homosexuality which could lead to the death penalty and is defined as sexual activity with someone of the same sex who is:
a child (below the age of 18 years old)
a relative or someone under your care
disabled
suffering from mental health issues
75 years of age or older
unconscious or under the influence of medicine or other substances that impair their judgement
if the person with whom the offence is committed contracts a terminal illness
if the act is committed under duress, misrepresentation, through threats, or intimidation
A person who has a previous conviction of homosexuality or related offences can be charged with aggravated homosexuality for subsequent offences.
Promoting or supporting homosexuality, which carries up to a 20 year prison sentence, includes, but is not limited to:
encouraging or persuading someone to perform a same sex sexual act or anything that is an offence under the act
publishing, printing, broadcasting by any means, information that promotes or encourages homosexuality
providing financial or other support that encourages homosexuality or the normalisation of acts prohibited by the act
Allowing the use of a premise for the ‘purposes of homosexuality’ or to commit an offence under the act is liable for imprisonment for up to 10 years.
Some of the language in the law is vague and open to interpretation and it remains unclear how this law will be implemented.
The law could affect those who are exercising their freedoms of expression, peaceful assembly and association to show support for LGBT+ people and rights.
Anti-LGBT+ rhetoric by religious leaders, politicians, government officials and the local media can incite homophobia against the LGBT+ community.
LGBT+ people or those who are perceived to be LGBT+ could see an increase in cases of harassment, imprisonment, blackmail and violence from people who view the law as justification for attacks.
See our information and advice page for the LGBT community before you travel.
Wildlife and animal products
It’s illegal to buy, sell, kill or capture any protected wild animal or trade its parts without a licence. Uganda is a signatory to the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES) which bans trading in ivory. If you’re caught buying or trafficking these goods you’re liable to be prosecuted and receive a prison sentence or a fine.
Smoking
Smoking is prohibited in all public places, workplaces, transport and other outdoor places within 50 metres of a public place. Electronic cigarettes and shisha (water-pipe tobacco) are banned. There are penalties including fines and/or imprisonment.
Illegal drugs and trafficking
Penalties for drug trafficking are severe.
Using cameras in secure areas
Don’t take photos of military, official or diplomatic sites, including Owen Falls Dam at the source of the Nile near Jinja. If you are taking photographs of people, ask their permission first.
Military dress for civilians
It is illegal for anyone, including children, to dress in military style clothing. This includes clothing with marks, insignia and accessories associated with the Ugandan military, camouflage clothing and red berets. The offence carries a maximum sentence of life imprisonment when convicted.
Personal ID
You may be stopped and asked for ID documents by officials. Carry a copy of the personal details page of your passport (the page with your photograph) with you at all times.
Offering money, food, and clothing to children
On 22 May 2019 it became an illegal and punishable by a prison sentence and/or a fine to offer money, food or clothing to children living on the streets in Kampala.
