!
Warning
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to parts of Uganda.

This section has safety advice for regions of Uganda. It only covers regions where FCDO has specific advice.
You should also read FCDO’s overall travel advice and safety and security advice.
Exercise extra caution near the borders with the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) and South Sudan. In DRC, FCDO advises against all travel to the provinces that border Uganda. In South Sudan, FCDO advises against all travel.
Uganda and the DRC conduct joint military action against the Allied Democratic Forces (ADF) in North Kivu and Ituri provinces of eastern DRC, near to parts of the Ugandan border. Ugandan troops are present on both sides of the border as part of the joint operations.
This operation may affect the function of some border crossing points which could close at short notice. There is also a risk of banditry.
Western Uganda
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to:
the southern sector of Kibale Forest National Park and Kibale Forest Corridor Game Reserve up to and including the Fort Portal - Kamwenge / Fort Portal - Mbarara road the Park at Lake Nyabikere and exiting at Nkingo and extending to Lake George following the forest boundary
Queen Elizabeth National Park
the area immediately south-west of Kasese town – from the border with DRC at Kyabikere extending eastwards up to and including the A109 road and southwards to Queen Elizabeth National Park
Semuliki National Park
Tourists and foreign nationals may be targeted by the ADF in areas near the border with the DRC.
There have been several terrorist attacks in western Uganda in areas close to the border with DRC, especially around the Bwera border crossing. In October 2023, 2 tourists and their driver were killed by the ADF in Queen Elizabeth National Park. In December 2023, 10 people were killed in an attack on a bar and a farm in Kyabandara, and a further 3 people in an attack in Nyabitusi, in Kamwenge district near to Kibale forest. There are ongoing security operations in Kibale National Park, you should exercise caution and follow the advice of local authorities.
In June 2023, 42 people were killed in an attack on a school in Mpondwe, near to the border with DRC.
In 2022, the ADF carried out an attack in the vicinity of Bweramule Parish in Ntoroko District, on the border with DRC. If you are in the area, which is close to Semuliki National Park and Semuliki Wildlife Reserve, you should be cautious and follow the instructions of the local authorities.
South-west Uganda
The provinces of DRC bordering south-west Uganda have a history of instability and violent conflict and can this can flare up with little notice. FCDO advises against all travel to these DRC provinces. There is a potential for some spillover into Uganda. Take care when travelling in the area.
There are periodic clashes between DRC government forces and armed groups in the DRC close to the Ugandan border. Both the Bunagana border crossing and the Kitagoma-Buszana border crossing in Kisoro district are controlled by the M23 armed group on the DRC side of the border. If you are in this area, keep your security situation under constant review.
There were previous clashes on 12 June 2022, 23 May 2022 and 29 March 2022, and border crossing points were temporarily suspended. They could be closed again at short notice.
National parks near DRC and Rwanda
Use reputable, registered tour operators and contact the Ugandan Wildlife Authority (UWA) for up-to-date advice and information before you travel. Mgahinga Gorilla National Park and Bwindi Impenetrable Forest National Park are in the extreme south-west of Uganda near the borders with DRC and Rwanda. It’s routine practice for security personnel to accompany tourists on gorilla-tracking visits in this area.
Some gorilla trekking operators cross into DRC. Avoid taking these tours. FCDO advises against all travel to the provinces of DRC that border Uganda, including Virunga National Park.
North-east Uganda
There is an increased security presence in north-east Uganda in the Karamoja sub-region (districts of Kaabong, Kotido, Abim, Moroto and Nakapiripirit) due to cattle theft. Military and civilians have been killed during security operations. Armed raids to steal cattle have also been reported in districts that neighbour Karamoja in the Teso and Acholi sub-regions. Foreigners are not usually the target of attacks but you should remain vigilant, exercise caution and avoid any travel at night.
The north-east is susceptible to flooding during the rainy seasons, from March to May and October to November. Monitor local media and only use suitably equipped 4-wheel-drive vehicles.
Eastern Uganda
Travel to eastern Uganda is largely trouble-free, but during heavy rains there is a risk of landslides, particularly in Bulucheke sub-county in Bududa District near Mount Elgon National Park, a popular tourist destination.
