Coronavirus guidance is being updated.
Read what you can and cannot do

There are currently no commercial options to return to the UK from Uganda. Since 22 March, all international flights to and from Uganda have been suspended. Cargo flights are permitted, but crew must observe strict guidelines. Land borders and lake ports are also closed, except for truck drivers.
We continue to work with the Government of Uganda, other embassies and airlines on options for helping British nationals who wish to return home.
The UK government has facilitated a special flight from Entebbe to the UK departing on 21 May.
Seats cost £559. All passengers must pay for their tickets.
These flights are for:
British nationals, normally resident in the UK.
dependants of and travelling with a British national
Vulnerable British nationals will be prioritised.
Vulnerable non-British UK residents with Indefinite Leave to Remain, and other foreign nationals, may be accommodated if there is sufficient capacity. Your eligibility, including your UK address, will be checked before your tickets are issued.
CTM are working on behalf of the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) to manage special flight bookings.
How to book
If you wish to travel, you must book tickets via the CTM website.
To book flights on the CTM website, you will need:
full passport and contact details for each traveller
your UK home address and postcode
your means of payment, such as credit or debit card details
Please note that payment does not guarantee you a place on a flight. You will receive a refund if you are not given a seat on the flight.
The booking website is only available to British nationals. If you have difficulty registering online, you are a vulnerable non-British UK resident with Indefinite Leave to Remain, or another foreign national, you will need to contact us. To do so, send an SMS text message containing only your full name to +44(0)753 745 3869. A member of the CTM team will then be in touch. Some international phone charges may apply.
If you have difficulty booking online, send CTM an SMS text message containing ONLY your full name to +44(0)753 745 3869. A member of the CTM booking team will get in touch to assist you. Some international phone charges may apply.
Tickets will not be on sale at the airport. Do not travel to the airport without a confirmed ticket.
You may find it helpful to read our guide to eligibility and the booking process for special charter flights.
After your booking is confirmed
After your booking is confirmed, CTM will send you an email with all the details you need including what time to be at the airport. You must print and take your confirmed itinerary from CTM with you to the airport. A copy on a smart phone or similar is also sufficient.
You will be notified if you have not been allocated a seat, and will need to request a refund from CTM, which you should receive within 14 days.
Travel to the airport
Given the current restrictions on personal travel within Uganda, the British High Commission in Kampala are also considering how to get people to the airport. The British High Commission will email those registered for the special flight on 21 May to discuss transport arrangements.
Financial support for a flight
If you have exhausted all other options available to you for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government to cover the cost of the ticket. You would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK.
Our partner CTM is also authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO and details will be available when you are asked to pay.
Tickets will not be on sale at the airport. Do not travel to the airport without a confirmed ticket.
Your journey home
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air. When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance here.
Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British Embassy/High Commission on Twitter and Facebook.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British High Commission Kampala on 0312 312000 or +44 1908 516 666. The High Commission cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone. This page will be updated when departure options become available. To get the latest information, sign up for travel advice email alerts.
Future travel options
If you cannot leave Uganda at this time, see advice on staying in Uganda during coronavirus.
We are issuing regular updates on our Twitter and Facebook pages with the latest available information on possible flights.
