!
Warning
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to parts of Uganda.

You should also read FCDO’s overall travel advice and regional risks advice.
Terrorism   
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.    
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.         
 Terrorism in Uganda
Terrorists are very likely to try to carry out attacks in Uganda.   
Attacks could be indiscriminate, including in major cities and places frequented by foreign nationals and tourists, such as:
hotels
diplomatic premises
transport hubs
restaurants and bars
places of worship
shopping centres
major gatherings such as sporting or religious events
government buildings
security installations such as police stations
national parks
Stay aware of your surroundings, keep up to date with local media reports and follow the advice of local authorities. The Uganda Police Force regularly issues alerts, particularly around public holidays or religious events. 
Consider whether locations that you visit have effective security arrangements in place, like bag searches, physical security and guards. Avoid large gatherings of any kind in Uganda as these may be targets for an attack.
Previous terrorist attacks and disrupted attacks in Uganda have targeted the security forces, places where football matches were being viewed, restaurants, buses, schools, churches, national parks and government buildings.
There have been a series of terrorist attacks in areas of western Uganda near to the border with the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC), including in national parks. You should exercise particular caution in these areas and follow the advice of local authorities. Terrorist attacks have also occurred in other parts of the country, including Kampala.
Recent significant attacks include: 
on 3 June 2025 there was an explosion near the Catholic Basilica in the Munyonyo area of Kampala
in December 2023, 10 people were killed in an attack on a bar and a farm in Kyabandara, and a further 3 people in an attack in Nyabitusi, in Kamwenge district near to Kibale forest
in October 2023, 2 tourists and their driver were killed by terrorists in Queen Elizabeth National Park
in June 2023, 42 people were killed in an attack on a school in Mpondwe, Kasese District, western Uganda, close to the border with the DRC
in 2022, the ADF carried out an attack in the vicinity of Bweramule Parish in Ntoroko District, on the border with DRC
in 2021, terrorists used 2 explosive devices in central Kampala killing 4 and injuring 33 people. The police disarmed 2 further explosive devices
in 2021, terrorists used an explosive device on a coach travelling on the Kampala to Masaka road near Mpigi killing one person
in 2021, terrorists used an explosive device to attack a restaurant in Komamboga, a suburb in the north-east of Kampala killing one person and injuring a number of others
Political situation
Political rallies, protests and violent demonstrations in Uganda:
can happen anywhere without warning
can cause loss of life and injury
are more like around elections
The police have used tear gas, rubber bullets and live ammunition to disperse demonstrators. Avoid all demonstrations and rallies where possible.
There have been country-wide internet shut-downs around elections, other political events and during protests. Disruption to social media sites including X, Facebook and WhatsApp has also taken place.
Red and yellow are strongly associated with political parties in Uganda. Consider not wearing these colours around political events.  
If you get caught up in a political demonstration:
remain calm and try to move away from the area by the safest possible route
lock the doors and shut the windows if you’re in a vehicle
stay inside if you’re in your accommodation and you think leaving is threatening or unsafe
Make sure you’re familiar with the security procedures at your accommodation.
Crime
Criminals may target tourists who show signs of wealth.
Organised crime groups operate in Uganda. However, criminal kidnaps and targeted armed assaults are unlikely to be directed at tourists.
Protecting yourself and your belongings
You can reduce the risk of being followed and pickpocketed or mugged by:
not carrying large amounts of cash
using arranged transport to withdraw cash
using indoor ATMs
not wearing expensive-looking jewellery or watches
taking care of your passport
not walking after dark
Vehicle crime
Criminals may steal from cars and taxis stopped in traffic. Keep car doors locked and windows shut when driving in towns. Do not leave luggage or valuables in parked vehicles. Do not resist if armed criminals stop you.
Foreign nationals using motorbike taxis (‘boda-bodas’) have been mugged. Some of these incidents have involved violence and the use of weapons.
Food and drink spiking
Travellers have been drugged and robbed on public transport and in bars. Do not accept food and drink from strangers.
Scams
Scammers may target foreign visitors and residents. Be wary of strangers who:
approach you or your accommodation
contact you by phone asking for personal information or financial help
Laws and cultural differences
Personal ID
Officials may stop you and ask for ID. Always carry a copy of the photo page of your passport.
Wearing military-style clothing
It is illegal for anyone, including children, to dress in military-style clothing. This includes clothing with marks, badges or symbols and accessories associated with the Ugandan military, camouflage clothing and red berets. The offence carries a maximum sentence of life imprisonment when convicted.
Helping children on Kampala’s streets
It is illegal and punishable by a fine and a possible prison sentence to offer money, food or clothing to children living on the streets in Kampala.
Smoking and e-cigarette bans
It is illegal to smoke in:
public places
workplaces
transport
outdoors if you’re within 50 metres of a public building
Electronic cigarettes and shisha (water-pipe tobacco) are illegal. There are penalties including fines and prison sentences.
Illegal drug penalties
Penalties for illegal drug possession and illegal drug trafficking are severe. The maximum sentence is 20 years for possession and life imprisonment for trafficking.
Using cameras in secure areas
It is forbidden to take photos of military, official or diplomatic sites. This includes Owen Falls Dam at the source of the Nile near Jinja.
If you are taking photographs of people, ask their permission first.
LGBT+ travellers
Same-sex sexual activity is illegal and same-sex relationships are not tolerated in Uganda’s conservative society.
In May 2023, Uganda brought in the Anti-Homosexuality Act 2023. This act introduces harsh prison sentences, and the death penalty in some cases, for same-sex sexual activity. There are also severe penalties for promoting LGBT+ rights.
Sexual activity with someone of the same sex carries the punishment of life imprisonment.
Offences classed as ’aggravated homosexuality’ carry a sentence up to the death penalty. ‘Aggravated homosexuality’ is defined as sexual activity with someone of the same sex who is:
a person aged 17 or under
a person aged 75 or above
a relative or someone under your care
disabled or suffering from mental health issues
a person who is unconscious or under the influence of medicine or other substances that impair their judgement
under duress or misrepresentation
threatened or intimidated
A person who has a previous conviction of homosexuality or related offences can be charged with aggravated homosexuality for subsequent offences.
Promoting or supporting homosexuality carries up to a 20-year prison sentence. This includes, but is not limited to:
encouraging or persuading someone to perform a same-sex sexual act or anything that is an offence under the act
publishing, printing, broadcasting by any means, information that promotes or encourages homosexuality
providing financial or other support that encourages homosexuality or the normalisation of acts prohibited by the act
Some of the language in the law is vague and open to interpretation, and it remains unclear how this law will be implemented. The law could affect those who are exercising their freedoms of expression, peaceful assembly and association to show support for LGBT+ people and rights.
Anti-LGBT+ rhetoric by religious leaders, politicians, government officials and the local media can incite homophobia against the LGBT+ community.
LGBT+ people or those who are perceived to be LGBT+ may be at greater risk of harassment, imprisonment, blackmail and violence from people who view the law as justification for attacks.
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Wildlife, animal products and souvenirs
It’s illegal to buy, sell, kill or capture any protected wild animal or trade its parts without a licence. If you’re caught buying or trafficking such goods you might be prosecuted and get a prison sentence or a fine.
Transport risks
Road travel
If you are planning to drive in Uganda, see information on driving abroad.
You can drive in Uganda with a UK driving licence for up to 3 months. For a longer period, you must get a Ugandan driving licence or a 1949 international driving permit (IDP). You cannot buy an IDP outside the UK, so get one before you travel.
Travelling by road can be hazardous, particularly outside the main cities. Driving standards are poor and the accident rate is high. At night, other road users may be driving without lights and livestock roam across the roads. Accidents regularly happen on the Jinja-Kampala and the Kampala-Masaka roads.
Speeding is illegal in Uganda and the police enforce speed limit laws. You could get a fine, a prison sentence or both if caught speeding.
Avoid travelling outside of the main towns after dark, except on the roads between Kampala and Entebbe International Airport.
Make sure your vehicle is in good condition and stocked with items you might need in case of a breakdown or other incidents.
Public transport
There have been serious accidents involving Ugandan long-distance bus services. These include:
buses between Kampala and other towns in Uganda
international services to Nairobi, Kigali and Dar es Salaam
Criminals have robbed overnight buses after posing as passengers or blocking the road.
Avoid using:
matatus (minibus taxis following a particular route)
boda-bodas (motorbike taxis)
Matatus and boda-bodas are cheap, but they do not meet UK safety standards. They are generally in poor condition, badly driven and often do not have proper insurance. Accidents are common and can be fatal.
Boat travel
Ferry accidents on Lake Albert and Lake Victoria have killed large numbers of passengers in recent years. Overloading of passengers and goods is often the cause.
You should:
use a reputable ferry company
not get on a ferry if it appears overloaded or unseaworthy
learn the emergency procedures on board
note the location of life jackets and emergency exits
Extreme weather and natural disasters
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards.
Flooding
Localised flooding and landslides are common, particularly during the rainy seasons from March to May and October to November.
Earthquakes
Uganda is in an earthquake zone. The US Federal Emergency Management Agency website has advice about what to do before, during and after an earthquake.
