Coronavirus guidance is being updated.
Read the Prime Minister’s statement for the latest information.

This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Uganda as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Uganda to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Uganda
The Ugandan authorities have introduced measures to limit the spread of coronavirus. On 22 June 2020, some internal lockdown measures were extended indefinitely:
It is mandatory for everyone aged 6 or above to wear a face mask when outside your house. Further guidance is available from the Ministry of Health website.
A curfew remains in place from 7pm to 6:30am.
Movement by personal vehicles is permitted (except in some districts with an international border) but limited to 4 people per car (including the driver) and they must all wear masks if there is more than one person in the vehicle.
Travel by public transport (including minibus taxis, buses, coaches, passenger trains) is allowed from 4 June at 50% occupancy, except in some districts with an international border. Tuk tuks and boda bodas (motorbike taxis) are still not allowed to carry passengers.
Vehicles delivering goods and food, and ambulances, security, refuse and government vehicles are exempt where restrictions apply. Only cargo transport and security vehicles are exempt during curfew hours.
Gatherings of more than 5 people are prohibited. Public exercise is banned.
Shopping arcades are closed. Shopping malls are allowed to open from 4 June. Supermarkets, pharmacies and shops outside shopping malls and arcades are allowed to open. Hotels and restaurants are open with social distancing measures in place and food delivery services (such as Jumia) remain operational outside of curfew hours.
See also Entry requirements.
Visas
Immigration offices in Uganda have now re-opened but they are currently providing a reduced service only. The Ministry of Internal Affairs have advised that fines accrued for overstaying visa or permits from 18 March to 9 June 2020 are waived. Discretion to waive fines outside of this period lies with the Commissioner of Immigration. Cases will be considered on a case-by-case basis. Foreign nationals can submit an enquiry via the Directorate’s web based form.
Health
For contact details for English speaking doctors, if you are running low on medication or require emergency medical treatment, you should contact one of the medical practitioners this list.
They will be able to discuss your situation over the phone and advise on the best course of action. Some hospitals and pharmacies are able to deliver medication to you.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Uganda.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Uganda, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
