The FCDO advises against all but essential travel to:
The whole of Uganda based on the current assessment of COVID-19 risks.
Travel to Uganda is subject to entry restrictions
If you are travelling to Uganda, you will need to provide a negative COVID-19 test certificate, issued no more than 120 hours before boarding the aircraft or crossing land borders. Foreign nationals without a valid negative test certificate will be denied entry. Infants aged three and under are exempt when accompanying parents arrive with a negative test certificate.
Arriving passengers will be subject to temperature checks and will be screened for infectious diseases by the Port Health authorities
New measures were announced on 29 April 2021 which bans travel to Uganda for anyone who has been in India in the previous 14 days and requires PCR testing on arrival in Uganda for travellers from certain countries, including the UK, who have not been fully vaccinated against COVID-19. The ban on travel from India was implemented on 2 May 2021. There is no information on the implementation date of the PCR testing on arrival requirement, however it may be implemented at short or no notice.
See Entry requirements for more information before you plan to travel.
Preparing for your return journey to the UK
If you’re returning to the UK from overseas, you will need to:
provide your journey and contact details before you travel
check if you need to self-isolate on your return
If your return journey to the UK transits another country, you should check whether it is subject to a travel ban or any other additional requirements. If so, contact your travel provider.
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
If you’re planning travel to Uganda, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO) guidance on foreign travel insurance.
For information about COVID-19 vaccines, see the Coronavirus page.
On 18 and 19 November 2020 there were election-related protests in Kampala and other locations across Uganda, with incidents of violence and a number of deaths. Political rallies, protests and violent demonstrations can occur without notice throughout the country. Presidential and parliamentary elections took place on 14 January 2021. The official election period ran from 11 January to 3 February 2021, however there is the potential for election related or politically motivated incidents and tensions beyond this.
You should remain vigilant, avoid large crowds and public demonstrations and follow local media for updates. See Political situation
On 1 October 2020, Entebbe International Airport and land borders re-opened. New COVID-19 standard operating procedures (SOPs) are in place for arriving and departing passengers. See Entry requirements
UK health authorities have classified Uganda as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For information and advice about the risks associated with Zika virus, visit the National Travel Health Network and Centre website
There has recently been confirmed cases of Ebola in North Kivu province in eastern Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), in the same province as a previous outbreak. North Kivu province borders Uganda and Rwanda. Further information and updates on bola can be found on the WHO website and the Public Health England (PHE) website. These are the first Ebola cases reported in DRC since the last outbreak in Equateur Province was declared on 18 November 2020. See Health
Petty and violent crime occurs. Take sensible precautions to protect yourself and your belongings. See Safety and Security.
Terrorists are likely to try to carry out attacks in Uganda. See Terrorism.
Avoid travel by road outside major towns at night, except between Kampala and the airport at Entebbe. See Crime.
Around 15,000 British nationals visit Uganda every year. Most visits are trouble-free.
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.
The Overseas Business Risk service offers information and advice for British companies operating overseas on how to manage political, economic, and business security-related risks.
