Terrorists are very likely to try to carry out attacks in Uganda. Attacks could be indiscriminate or against foreign nationals or places frequented by foreign nationals.
You should be vigilant at all times, especially in crowded areas and public places like hotels, transport hubs, restaurants and bars, and during major gatherings like sporting or religious events and when in close proximity to Government buildings or security installations such as police stations. Previous terrorist attacks and disrupted attacks in Uganda have targeted the security forces, places where football matches were being viewed, restaurants, buses and government buildings.
Recent attacks in Uganda include:
On 17 June 2023, the Ugandan police attributed to militants (the Allied Democratic Forces – ADF) an attack on a school in Mpondwe, Kasese District, western Uganda, close to the border with the DRC. 42 people were killed.
On 16 November 2021, terrorists used two explosive devices in central Kampala killing 4 and injuring 33 people. Two further explosive devices were disarmed by the police
On 25 October 2021, terrorists used an explosive device on a coach travelling on the Kampala to Masaka road near Mpigi killing one person
On 23 October 2021, terrorists used an explosive device to attack a restaurant in Kamamboga, a suburb in the north east of Kampala killing one person and injuring a number of others
The Uganda Police Force regularly issue alerts, particularly around public holidays or religious events. You should remain vigilant at all times and follow the advice of the local authorities.
In 2010 there were bomb attacks in Kampala at venues screening the World Cup final killing over 70 people and injuring many more. Al-Shabaab claimed responsibility and linked the attacks to Uganda’s military presence in Somalia as part of an African Union peacekeeping mission (AMISOM), and threatened further attacks in the region. Daesh has claimed responsibility for some of the more recent attacks in Uganda.
The Ugandan authorities continue to work to reduce the risk of further attacks. There may be additional security checks, including baggage and car searches in public places, including hotels.
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. You should remain vigilant at all times.
The Uganda Police Force disrupted a reported IED attack at Miracle Centre Cathedral in the Rubaga Division of Kampala on 3 September 2023. Uganda Police are reporting that they are currently investigating reports of additional devices.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
