Coronavirus travel health
On 5 March 2022, Vanuatu confirmed a first case of community transmission of COVID-19. Community cases have been recorded in Shefa and Sanma provinces, which are at national COVID-19 alert level three (“very high”).
Lockdowns and curfews are in effect, please check the Health Promotions Vanuatu Facebook page for the latest COVID-19 details and updates.
The Government of Vanuatu has introduced strict rules in response to the COVID-19 outbreak. All people must wear masks outside of their homes and maintain physical distancing of 1.5 – 2 metres in public places and in places of business. Failure to do so or to break the curfew or any other Public Health Emergency (PHE) regulations can be penalised with a fine of up to VT100,000. There are further measures in place for businesses, with fines up to VT500,000 in the case of non-compliance. There are more details in the Public Health Emergency declaration 43.
Inbound international flights have been suspended. Inter-island travel is subject to restrictions. The government of Vanuatu has advised that residents follow measures detailed on the Ministry of Health’s COVID-19 Update website.
Rapid antigen tests are available at community and private clinics. The Ministry of Health has advised that PCR tests are only available in Vanuatu at Vila Central Hospital (VCH), at a cost of VT25,000 per person, payable to the Government Cashier at Vila Central Hospital Administration building. Once an invoice has been issued, travellers should arrange their test by contacting Dr Vincent Atua: vatua@vanuatu.gov.vu and George Junior Pakoa: jgpakoa@vanuatu.gov.vu.
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Vanuatu on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
Due to the ongoing COVID-19 situation in Vanuatu, inbound travel is subject to frequent short notice suspension and inbound flights are currently suspended. Check announcements on the Ministry of Health website for updates. Air Vanuatu is running a small number of outbound cargo services with some seats for passengers to Brisbane, Auckland and Sydney. When flights are running, all travellers to Vanuatu who are 18 years and older are required to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19.
If you are a British National looking to return to the UK, please refer to the Air Vanuatu website.
You will also need to make your own transit arrangements at your point of arrival from Vanuatu. See Travel Advice pages for Australia and New Zealand for more details about the current transit procedures through these countries.
Before making your onward flight booking from your transit point, you should also check the current transit rules for any other countries you will be travelling through. Airlines may also have their own requirements for travellers including having to undertake a pre-departure COVID-19 test before boarding.
For travel to the UK, check the latest UK entry requirements in the ‘Returning to the UK’ section.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Vanuatu.
Returning to the UK
Travelling from and returning to the UK
Check what you must do to travel abroad and return to England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
If you plan to pass through another country to return to the UK, check the travel advice for the country you’re transiting.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID-19. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Vanuatu
Domestic travel within Vanuatu is subject to short notice suspension due to the ongoing COVID-19 situation. Passengers should check with their airline and the Ministry of Health for details, including any current restrictions on flights operating between islands.
Public places and services
An overnight curfew is in effect in Efate and Sanma provinces. Public gatherings, including church services, weddings and funerals are prohibited in the affected areas. Essential services including supermarkets and banks remain open for business.
Visas
If you hold a short term visa for Vanuatu which is close to expiry, you should report to the Director of Immigration to have your visa extended.
Healthcare in Vanuatu
Medical care across Vanuatu is not as advanced as you would find in the UK. Access to medical services and the availability of goods could be impaired during the COVID-19 pandemic and while international flights are suspended. View Health for further details on healthcare in Vanuatu.
The government of Vanuatu has introduced additional border protection and disease surveillance measures in response to the coronavirus outbreak.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Vanuatu
We will update this page when the Government of Vanuatu announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
Vanuatu’s national vaccination programme started in June 2021 and is using the Moderna, AstraZeneca, Janssen (Johnson and Johnson) and Sinopharm vaccines. British nationals resident in Vanuatu are eligible for vaccination if they choose to join the programme. Further information on the vaccination programme is available on the Government of Vanuatu’s Ministry of Health website.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in Vanuatu, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
Monitor local developments on COVID-19 at the Ministry of Health’s COVID-19 Updates website.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
