This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Vanuatu set and enforce entry rules. For further information contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to. You should also consider checking with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Entry rules in response to coronavirus (COVID-19)
Entry to Vanuatu
Borders are closed to non-residents. Air Vanuatu are running a small number of scheduled repatriation flights from Auckland, Brisbane and Noumea between September and December 2020 for Vanuatu citizens and permanent residents. Places on these flights need to be pre-approved by the Vanuatu authorities. Arriving passengers are required to undergo 14 days’ quarantine at a government approved location at their own expense.
The Government of Vanuatu has also issued specific instructions to crew on aircraft and foreign going sea vessels. Given the fast moving situation, you should familiarise yourself with controls in place and to check with your airline before you travel.
Travel via Australia and New Zealand
The government of Australia has announced that entry to the country will only be permitted to Australian citizens or permanent residents unless an exemption is granted. This follows a similar announcement by New Zealand from 19 March. If you’re resident in Vanuatu, you should be aware of the potential impact of the border closures and flight restrictions on future travel plans.
To transit through Australia you may need to apply for a visa and/or exemption from the mandatory 14 day quarantine arrangements currently in place for all international travellers entering Australia. . States and Territories are introducing charges for quarantine. These are already in place in New South Wales, the Northern Territory, Queensland and South Australia and are likely to be introduced to other states. For further information on the strict measures in place for travel and transit via Australia, see the Travel Advice pages for Australia
The New Zealand border is currently closed to almost all arrivals. The government of New Zealand has put in place strict measures to limit transit through their airports. For further information on the strict entry and transit requirements, see the Travel Advice pages for New Zealand. More information is also available from Immigration New Zealand.
Regular entry requirements
Visas
You do not need a visa to visit Vanuatu. British passport holders are normally given permission to enter and remain in the country for up to 30 days on arrival. You must be in possession of an onward or return ticket.
Passport validity
Your passport should be valid for a minimum period of 6 months from the date of entry to Vanuatu.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents are accepted for entry, airside transit and exit from Vanuatu.
