At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Coronavirus
Travellers of all nationalities planning to travel to Vanuatu must complete an incoming passenger health declaration.
In addition, since 17 March, any traveller wishing to enter Vanuatu who has originated from mainland China, Taiwan, Hong Kong SAR and Macao SAR, South Korea, Japan, Singapore, Iran, Italy, Spain, France, Germany, Switzerland, Netherlands, United Kingdom, Denmark, Sweden, Norway, Belgium, Austria, Czech Republic, Slovenia, Portugal, Finland, Israel, Australia, New Caledonia, Malaysia, Qatar, Kuwait, Bahrain, Canada and United States of America in the last 14 days will be denied entry to Vanuatu until further notice.
Any foreign national planning to visit, who has originated from or has transited through any of the places listed above since 31st December 2019 must have spent the 14 days prior to their arrival, outside the places listed and must obtain a medical certificate from a registered medical practitioner certifying they are free from any respiratory illness.
Medical care across Vanuatu is not as advanced as you would find in the UK. Access to medical services and the availability of fresh foods in Vanuatu could be impaired during a serious or extended COVID-19 outbreak. Due to the rapidly changing nature of the COVID-19 outbreak across the region, flight availability and entry requirements / prohibitions can change at short notice. This means your ability to leave Vanuatu by commercial airlines, or your ability to fly to your chosen destination could be curtailed at short notice. Our ability to provide consular services or support any evacuation in the Pacific may also be limited by these factors. You should take these limitations and risks into account when making travel plans.
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
Medical treatment
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 112 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
Medical facilities in Vanuatu are basic but adequate for routine treatment but are limited in range and availability. More serious cases will require evacuation to Australia or New Zealand. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad, medical evacuation and repatriation.
