Vanuatu sits along a volatile seismic strip called the ‘Ring of Fire’ in the Pacific. Volcanic eruptions, earthquakes and tsunamis are possible.
Tropical cyclones
The tropical cyclone season in Vanuatu normally runs from November to May. Throughout this period there is a high risk of strong winds and heavy rains with associated flooding, landslides and road closures. You should monitor local and international weather updates from the World Meteorological Organisation, Vanuatu Meteorology and Geo-Hazards Department (VMGD), local newspapers and local radio.
See our tropical cyclones page for advice about what to do if you’re caught up in a storm.
Earthquakes and tsunamis
You should follow the VMGD website and their Facebook page for updates on seismic activity.
Vanuatu is prone to significant year round seismic and volcanic activity, with associated risks of tsunamis. They are over 2,000 seismic events reported each year, most events are small scale, although larger tremors and quakes of over 5 on the Richter scale do occur on a regular basis.
Further information on earthquakes can be found on the US Geological Survey website. The US Tsunami Warning Center and the VMGD provide real-time information on tsunamis in the region.
To learn more about what to do before, during and after an earthquake, see the website of the US Federal Emergency Management Agency.
Volcanoes
There are several active volcanoes in Vanuatu, located on the islands of Tanna, Ambae, Ambrym, Lopevi, Vanua Lava and Gaua. You should monitor local media reports and follow the advice of local authorities when visiting these areas.
The Vanuatu government’s Mines and Geology Department monitor volcanos and provide advice on the level of risk. There are five alert levels for volcanoes; from zero (normal, low-level activity) up to five (very large eruption, island-wide danger). An alert level of three will often be the trigger for warnings to avoid the summit of the volcano and nearby areas. Even at lower levels, explosions and injuries from volcanic debris can occur.
Alert levels and accessibility to volcanoes can change unexpectedly contact the Vanuatu Tourism Office for the latest advice before travelling to the areas where volcanic activity may occur. Extra care should be taken ifyou choose to visit a volcano, including Mt Yasur on Tanna. You should also make sure your travel and medical insurance policy covers you for visits to these areas.
More information on volcanic activity, including current alert levels, can also be found at the Vanuatu Meteorology and Geohazards Department.
