Coronavirus guidance is being updated.
Read the Prime Minister’s address for the latest information.

There are currently no commercial options available to return to the UK from Vanuatu as the borders are closed.
We know this is concerning for British people trying to leave Vanuatu. The UK government is working closely with airlines, the Vanuatu authorities and other governments to make sure options are available for you to return to the UK as soon as possible.
What to do
If you cannot leave Vanuatu at this time, you should:
follow the advice of local authorities, including local measures to help minimise your risk of exposure to coronavirus
find accommodation that’s suitable for your needs. Further information on accommodation can be found at www.vanuatu.travel/au
keep in regular contact with family and friends at home, so they know you are safe and well
if you intend to stay in Vanuatu or are a Resident, we recommend that you subscribe to our Travel Advice and should you need to discuss your immigration status, contact Vanuatu Department of Immigration at https://immigration.gov.vu/index.php/contact
Future travel options
The UK government is working closely with airlines, the Vanuatu authorities and other governments to make sure options are available for you to return to the UK as soon as possible.
This travel advice will be updated when departure options become available. Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British High Commissioner on Twitter and our Facebook page.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Help and support
The High Commission cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone. This page will be updated when departure options become available. To get the latest information, sign up for travel advice email alerts.
Your journey home
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Further information
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
