

Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Vanuatu
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Vanuatu, attacks cannot be ruled out. 
Crime
Protecting yourself and your belongings
The risk of crime is generally low but there have been:
burglaries accompanied by violence
some instances of street crime and attacks on foreign nationals, including on tourists at nightclubs and bars in Port Vila
Take sensible precautions as you would in the UK.
Laws and cultural differences
You should respect local customs, which are strictly observed, and religious sensitivities.
Dress code
Do not wear beachwear away from beaches and hotels. 
Alcohol laws and bans
It is illegal for supermarkets to sell alcohol from midday on Saturday to 7am on Monday. However, clubs, bars and hotels may serve alcohol during these times.
Kava drinking ceremonies
Kava is a traditional drink in Vanuatu used in kava ceremonies, at kava bars (‘nakamals’) and at some hotels. Some nakamals, particularly outside of Port Vila, do not welcome women. Be wary of the effects of kava and consume it responsibly. Kava is banned from entry to the UK due to concerns about its health impacts.
Illegal drugs and prison sentences
Avoid all recreational drugs. Possession of even small quantities can lead to imprisonment and a large fine.
Using cameras
Most people in Vanuatu will allow you to take their photograph, but you should always get permission first.
Mobile phone coverage
Ask your service provider if your mobile will work in Vanuatu. A 4G network is available but coverage varies across the country. You can also buy SIM cards from local phone companies Vodafone or Digicel, including at Port Vila airport.
Visiting fees
Land ownership in Vanuatu is an important and often sensitive issue. If you travel off the beaten track, you may be trespassing unless you pay a ‘visiting fee’ to the landowner. At most beaches you will also be asked to pay an entry fee.
LGBT+ travellers
Same-sex relationships are legal in Vanuatu. However, showing affection in public may attract unwanted and negative attention and is likely to offend some people.
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Outdoor activities and adventure tourism
Swimming safety
Take care when swimming, diving or snorkelling in the sea as currents can be extremely strong. Coral reefs can easily cause cuts and scrapes. There are reports of water quality issues in some of the lagoons, and there are sharks in Vanuatu waters. Be cautious and follow the advice and instructions of local authorities.
See water safety on holiday from the Royal Life Saving Society.
Water sports and scuba diving activities
Many visitors to Vanuatu take part in water sports, including scuba diving and snorkelling without incident. However, water sports activities have on occasion led to injuries and deaths because of a lack of basic safety measures. To reduce risks:
use licensed water sports centres or operators
get any paperwork signed in advance
make sure you get a safety briefing before starting
Diving schools and rescue service standards are not always as high as in the UK. Check the dive operator’s credentials and make sure your insurance covers you.
To reduce risks:
ask your dive operator to explain what cover they offer before signing up
check safety equipment is available on the boat
check the operator’s plans for emergencies, including their ability to evacuate divers to the nearest hyperbaric chamber
Vanuatu has 2 hyperbaric recompression chambers, both in Port Vila.
See water safety on holiday from the Royal Life Saving Society and the Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents watersports safety abroad guide.
Transport risks
Road travel
If you are planning to drive in Vanuatu, see information on driving abroad.
You can use a UK photocard driving licence to drive in Vanuatu. If you still have a paper driving licence, you may need to update it to a photocard licence or get the correct version of the international driving permit (IDP) as well.
Driving conditions
Many roads in Vanuatu are not properly surfaced. A lack of street lighting and the presence of pedestrians and animals makes roads particularly dangerous at night. Take extra care when driving at night, in heavy rain or after a prolonged dry period.
Driving standards are below those in the UK and many vehicles, including public transport, are in a poor state of repair and may not be insured.
Air travel
Air Vanuatu is currently not operating international or domestic flights. Check for messages from your travel agent in case of any changes or cancellations to your travel booking, including for code share tickets. Other airlines continue to operate flights to and from Vanuatu.
Travel to outer islands is often on small local aircraft. Many domestic airports have basic or no facilities. Schedules may be changed or suspended at short notice due to weather conditions or ash clouds from volcanic activity.
Sea travel
Boat services between the islands are infrequent and can be unreliable. Boats travelling between the islands should have current sea-worthiness certificates, but many do not. Look into their safety before taking these services.
Extreme weather and natural disasters
There was a significant earthquake in Port Vila on 17th December 2024 causing damage to buildings and local infrastructure. Some areas remain closed for safety reasons while assessments of damaged buildings are underway. Follow the advice of local authorities and do not enter closed areas for safety reasons.  Some areas remain inaccessible following landslides.  
Many hotels and tourism operators are open for business, but some have been significantly impacted by the earthquake and are temporarily closed. Contact your travel agent, accommodation provider or airline for further information.
Vanuatu is in an active seismic region known as the ‘Ring of Fire’. Volcanic eruptions, earthquakes and tsunamis are possible. Tropical cyclones are also a risk.
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards.
Tropical cyclones
The tropical cyclone season in Vanuatu normally runs from November to May, but cyclones can happen throughout the year. During the cyclone season there is a greater risk of strong winds, heavy rains, flooding, landslides and road closures.
Monitor local news and check World Meteorological Organization weather reports for Vanuatu and the Vanuatu Meteorology and Geohazards Department.
Earthquakes and tsunamis
Vanuatu is in an earthquake zone and is prone to significant year-round seismic and volcanic activity, with an associated risk of tsunamis. There are over 2,000 seismic events reported each year. Most events are minor, but earthquakes over 5.0 magnitude happen regularly. Make sure you understand local safety procedures for earthquakes and tsunamis.
Check Vanuatu Meteorology and Geohazards Department updates on seismic activity.
The US Federal Emergency Management Agency has advice about what to do before, during and after an earthquake or tsunami.
Volcanoes
In Vanuatu there are active volcanoes on the islands of:
Ambae
Ambrym
Epi
Gaua
Lopevi
Tanna
Vanua Lava
Volcano alert levels can change unexpectedly, and you may not be able to access an island if a volcano is active.
Before you travel to an area with volcanoes:
contact the Vanuatu Tourism Office for the latest advice
make sure your travel and medical insurance covers you
monitor local news and follow the advice of the local authorities
For current volcano alert levels, see the Vanuatu Meteorology and Geohazards Department.
