This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Vanuatu as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Vanuatu to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Vanuatu
For information on entering Vanuatu and transit through Australia, see Entry Requirements.
A State of Emergency is in place in Vanuatu until 10 July 2020, in response to the Covid-19 pandemic. There are no restrictions in place on social gatherings. Restaurants, bars and supermarkets are permitted to open as usual, although some are operating a restricted service or have closed altogether in response to falling trade.
Visas
If you hold a short term visa for Vanuatu which is close to expiry, you should report to the Director of Immigration to have your visa extended.
Health
Medical care across Vanuatu is not as advanced as you would find in the UK. Access to medical services and the availability of goods could be impaired during the COVID-19 pandemic and while international flights are suspended. View Health for further details on healthcare in Vanuatu.
The government of Vanuatu has introduced additional border protection and disease surveillance measures in response to the coronavirus outbreak.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Vanuatu, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
