Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

Coronavirus: stay up to date
See information on measures introduced in Vanuatu in response to the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. Find out how to return to the UK from Vanuatu.
See coronavirus travel advice for guidance on international travel.
Sign up for email alerts for Vanuatu travel advice.
The State of Emergency declared on 26 March banning social gatherings of more than five people and restricting shops, bars and restaurants hours has been lifted. A second, more limited State of Emergency has been declared until 8th May. There is a curfew in place in the Cyclone Harold affected Provinces of Torba, Penama, Sanma and Malampa. TInternational borders remain closed and containment measures are in place due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The last international flight left Vanuatu on 23 March. No further commercial services are expected to operate while the State of Emergency is in place.
The government of Vanuatu has declared a state of emergency for the island of Ambae. The government have ordered the immediate compulsory evacuation of the population of Ambae to the neighbouring island of Maewo due to the ongoing volcanic activity. If you’re in Vanuatu you’re advised to follow the advice of the local authorities, including the evacuation order.
Vanuatu lies on the Pacific ‘Ring of Fire’ and regularly experiences natural disasters, including cyclones, volcanic activity, earthquakes and tsunamis, with over 2,000 seismic events reported each year. Alert levels and accessibility to volcanoes can change quickly. You should monitor the Vanuatu Meteorology and Geohazards Department for the latest updates and follow the advice of the local authorities. See Natural disasters
The tropical cyclone season normally runs from November to May. You should monitor local and international weather updates and follow the advice of the local authorities and the Vanuatu Meteorological and Geo-Hazards Department. See Natural disasters
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Vanuatu, attacks can’t be ruled out. See Terrorism
Most visits to Vanuatu are trouble free. Crime levels are relatively low but following a series of recent incidents, residents and visitors should take particular care when walking at night and visiting remote areas.
Take out comprehensive travel and medical insurance before you travel.
Consular support may be limited in Vanuatu, however, the British Consulate-General in Sydney, Australia can provide consular support to British nationals.
