This page has information on travelling to St Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha. Check what you must do to return to the UK.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport from the UK, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in St Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha set and enforce entry rules.
All travellers
There are different rules depending on whether you are travelling to St Helena, Ascension or Tristan da Cunha.
St Helena
Foreign nationals are permitted to enter St Helena provided they meet the immigration rules and COVID-19 regulations concerning testing and quarantine. There are no other entry restrictions in force.
Travellers must complete a pre-arrival Entry Questionnaire Form, available on the St Helena Government’s website before arrival in St Helena. This form includes the details of the residence where you plan to stay for your period of quarantine.
Ascension
All travellers to Ascension Island require an entry permit visa unless exempted by their occupation, such as active members of Her Majesty’s Armed Forces travelling there for work. Failure to enter with a valid visa is an offence under the Entry Control Ordinance and may result in a fine and imprisonment. Individuals may also be refused permission to land and be required to leave on the aircraft or vessel that they arrived on. You should be aware that your application may be affected by a change in the Ascension COVID-19 Response Level, particularly if this reflects an escalation of the seriousness of the COVID-19 threat to the island. During such circumstances permissions for certain types of entry permits may not be granted, and extant permissions may be revoked.
Tristan da Cunha
All visitors to Tristan da Cunha require the authority of the Island Council in advance. Visitors to Tristan are currently restricted to returning Tristanians and expatriates on contract to the Government of Tristan da Cunha. Tristan da Cunha has banned all visits by cruise liners and yachts. The only boats going to Tristan da Cunha are the 8 trips by supply vessels from Cape Town which undergo strict quarantine/sanitisation procedures before leaving Cape Town, and the visit by the South African Research Vessel Agulhas II.
If you’re fully vaccinated
Entry to St Helena if you’re fully vaccinated
Find out if you qualify as fully vaccinated in St Helena by checking the St Helena Government’s website. Fully vaccinated passengers are subject to compulsory quarantine for 7 days. You will be required to self-administer a Lateral Flow Test on arrival and a further test will be performed on day 6 of quarantine. The only exception are individuals travelling from Ascension who have been present on Ascension for 10 days or more prior to travel who do not need to undergo quarantine.
In St Helena, those arriving by air (except travellers from Ascension) must complete the 7 days quarantine in a property deemed by the authorities to be appropriate for quarantine or they will be taken to a government quarantine facility for quarantine.
Entry to Ascension if you’re fully vaccinated
All air arrivals to Ascension (except from St Helena) are required to have had a negative COVID-19 test within three days before travelling to the island. All arrivals to Ascension that have travelled from a COVID-19 affected area within the last 14 days, or travelled with others who have been in an affected area in the last 14 days, are subject to compulsory isolation on arrival unless otherwise directed by the Senior Medical Officer. Your vaccination status and the number of people isolating together determine the length of compulsory isolation. See ‘Proof of vaccination status’
There are three tiers of compulsory isolation which are outlined on the Ascension Island Government website. You will generally be required to isolate for between eight and 14 days. There is no Government quarantine facility and all isolating takes place in private accommodation provided by employers. During compulsory isolation, your condition will be monitored for the development of symptoms which may be considered consistent with COVID-19. You will receive a daily welfare check and will be subject to testing. Air crews are also required to isolate for the duration of their stay on island.
If you’re travelling to Ascension and able to provide reliable documented evidence of recovery from a previous COVID-19 infection where the most recent positive test result was based on a sample taken within the 28 days before your arrival then, absent other factors, you may not be required to undergo compulsory isolation on arrival at Ascension.
You must make a request to the Chief Immigration Officer and the Senior Medical Officer (SMO) not less than five working days prior to the scheduled arrival date at Ascension. You must provide acceptable supporting evidence of their previous COVID-19 infection, a copy of which may be retained on file. The SMO may also request further medical information from you as necessary for your request to be considered.
See the list of territories currently defined as being an affected area.
Under Ascension’s Public Health (Coronavirus) (Temporary Measures) Regulations 2020 you will not be allowed to leave your isolation accommodation unless in an emergency or directed to by local authorities. Some work related activities may be undertaken during quarantine if pre-approved by the Senior Medical Officer. The penalties for breaches of these Regulations consist of a fine of up to £5,000 and up to six months in prison.
Find out if you qualify as fully vaccinated in Ascension on the Ascension Island Government website.
Entry to Tristan da Cunha if you’re fully vaccinated
Any visitors travelling to Tristan da Cunha must be able to prove their fully vaccinated status (ie initial vaccination and booster) before they will be given permission to travel. You will have to spend 10 days in quarantine in approved facilities, and have a negative PCR test before joining the boat.
Proof of vaccination status
St Helena
You do not need to present proof that you have been fully vaccinated to enter St Helena, but if you provide a COVID-19 vaccination certificate showing you are fully vaccinated (as per the recommended dosage for the particular vaccine) it will reduce the length of quarantine from 10 to 7 days.
Acceptable proof of COVID-19 vaccination are: a vaccination certificate with QR code, or a digital pass via Smartphone application with QR code (e.g. European Union Digital COVID certificate). Information about acceptable proof is available on St Helena Government’s website.
St Helena will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 recovery and vaccination record. Your final vaccine dose must have been administered at least 14 days prior to travel. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
Documentation that will not be accepted as proof of COVID-19 vaccination include: a printout of a vaccination record or certificate issued at national or subnational level or by an authorised vaccine provider; digital photos of a vaccination card or record; downloaded vaccine record or vaccination certificate from an official source; or a mobile phone application without a QR code.
Ascension
You do not need to present proof that you have been fully vaccinated to enter Ascension but if you do it may reduce the length of compulsory isolation. Your vaccination status and the number of people isolating together determine the length of compulsory isolation on Ascension.
Ascension will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 recovery and vaccination record. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
Tristan da Cunha
You need to present proof before you travel that you have been fully vaccinated in order to enter Tristan da Cunha.
Tristan da Cunha will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 recovery and vaccination record. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
If you’re not fully vaccinated
There are different rules depending on whether you are travelling to St Helena, Ascension or Tristan da Cunha.
Entry to St Helena if you’re not fully vaccinated
If you are not fully vaccinated you will be subject to compulsory quarantine for 10 days. You will be required to self-administer a Lateral Flow Test on arrival, and will be tested again on day 9 of quarantine. The only exception are individuals travelling from Ascension who have been present on Ascension for 10 days or more prior to travel who do not need to undergo quarantine.
In St Helena, those arriving by air (except travellers from Ascension) must complete the 10 days quarantine in a property deemed by the authorities to be appropriate for quarantine or they will be taken to a government quarantine facility for quarantine.
Entry to Ascension if you’re not fully vaccinated
You should follow the same rules as set out for fully vaccinated passengers.
Your vaccination status and the number of people isolating together determine the length of compulsory isolation. See ‘Proof of vaccination status’
Find out if you qualify as fully vaccinated in Ascension on the Ascension Island Government website.
Entry to Tristan da Cunha if you’re not fully vaccinated
Entry to Tristan da Cunha is not possible if you are not fully vaccinated. Any visitors must be able to prove their fully vaccinated status. You will have to spend 10 days in quarantine in approved facilities, and have a negative PCR test before joining the boat.
If you’ve had COVID-19 in the past year
There are different rules depending on whether you are travelling to St Helena, Ascension or Tristan da Cunha.
St Helena
St Helena does not grant an exemption if you have tested positive for COVID-19 previously.
Ascension
If you’re travelling to Ascension and able to provide reliable documented evidence of recovery from a previous COVID-19 infection where the most recent positive test result was based on a sample taken within the 28 days before your arrival then, absent other factors, you may not be required to undergo compulsory isolation on arrival at Ascension.
You must make a request to the Chief Immigration Officer and the SMO not less than five working days prior to the scheduled arrival date at Ascension. You must provide acceptable supporting evidence of your previous COVID-19 infection, a copy of which may be retained on file. The SMO may also request further medical information from you as necessary for your request to be considered.
Tristan da Cunha
All travellers planning to enter Tristan da Cunha must show that they have been fully vaccinated. There are no exceptions for those who have tested positive for COVID-19 in the previous 12 months.
Children and young people
There are different rules depending on whether you are travelling to St Helena, Ascension or Tristan da Cunha.
St Helena
Children under 5 years of age are not required to be vaccinated and are not considered to be unvaccinated persons. Arrivals who are fully vaccinated who are travelling to St Helena with children under 5 years of age will be directed to quarantine for 7 days.
Children over 5 years of age should follow the rules as they apply to adults.
Ascension
Children aged 17 and under should follow the rules as they apply to adults.
Tristan da Cunha
Children who are too young to receive a vaccination will be allowed into Tristan with their parents, having completed the ten-day quarantine period before joining the boat. They will be required to take a PCR test. Children aged 12 to 17 should show vaccinated status.
If you’re transiting through St Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha
There are different rules depending on whether you are transiting St Helena, Ascension or Tristan da Cunha.
If you’re transiting through St Helena
Transiting through St Helena is permitted if you are travelling from or to Ascension. All travellers transiting St Helena to /from Ascension will have to abide with all the entry and COVID-19 requirements for St Helena.
If you’re transiting through Ascension
If you are transiting through Ascension you may be required to observe compulsory isolation if you have been in an affected area in the last 14 days, or travelled with others who have been in an affected area in the last 14 days.
If you’re transiting through Tristan da Cunha
There is no transit through Tristan da Cunha.
Exemptions
There are different rules depending on whether you are travelling to St Helena, Ascension or Tristan da Cunha.
Exemptions for St Helena
There are no exemptions to the entry rules for St Helena.
Exemptions for Ascension
Some arrivals to Ascension may be exempt from quarantine if they have had and recovered from COVID-19 within 28 days prior to arriving.
If you’re travelling to Ascension and able to provide reliable documented evidence of recovery from a previous COVID-19 infection where the most recent positive test result was based on a sample taken within the 28 days before your arrival then, absent other factors, you may not be required to undergo compulsory isolation on arrival at Ascension.
You must make a request to the Chief Immigration Officer and the SMO not less than five working days prior to the scheduled arrival date at Ascension. You must provide acceptable supporting evidence of your previous COVID-19 infection, a copy of which may be retained on file. The SMO may also request further medical information from you as necessary for your request to be considered.
Exemptions for Tristan da Cunha
You need to get permission from the Tristan Island Council for any proposed exemptions before you travel. Otherwise you might be refused entry and have to return to Cape Town.
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
There are different rules depending on whether you are travelling to St Helena, Ascension or Tristan da Cunha.
Passport validity for St Helena
If you are visiting St Helena, your passport should be valid for a minimum period of 6 months from the date you arrive.
If you are a resident in St Helena, and do not hold a British passport, your passport must be valid for 6 months from the date you arrive.
The Immigration Service in St. Helena only issues and renews British Overseas Territory Citizen passports and British Emergency travel documents.
Passport validity for Ascension
If you are travelling to Ascension, your passport should be valid for a minimum period of six months from the date of entry into Ascension
Passport validity for Tristan da Cunha
Your passport must be valid for the proposed duration of your stay. No additional period of validity beyond this is required. However, it’s always sensible to have a short period of extra validity on your passport in case of any unforeseen delays to your departure. Tristan da Cunha cannot issue passports or ETDs. You should check the requirements for transit through South Africa.
If you are a resident in Tristan da Cunha, your passport must be valid on arrival.
Visas for St Helena
An Entry Permit for St Helena costs £20 and allows a stay of up to 183 days. The fee can be paid in British pounds, Euros, US dollars or South African rand. You will need to provide evidence of a return ticket, or funds for a return ticket, medical insurance, adequate accommodation and sufficient funds for your stay.
If you wish to stay for longer than 183 days you should apply to the St Helena Immigration Control Board.
Entry permit applications should be completed via the St Helena Island E-Visa website.
If you need a visa for South Africa you should make sure it is valid for the date of your planned return journey. There are no facilities to issue international visas on the island.
Visas for Ascension
You must get permission to visit Ascension Island from the Administrator before travel. Entry permit applications should be completed via the Ascension Island Government E-Visa website. You must be able to produce evidence of holding comprehensive travel and medical insurance which includes pandemic and coronavirus cover. You must also be able to produce on request evidence of a return air ticket (or other evidence of pre-paid onward travel), pre-booked accommodation and sufficient funds to cover your stay on the island. 
Visitors are prohibited from taking employment, paid or unpaid, without first obtaining permission to do so from the Administrator. 
Background checks are required for all those employed on Ascension.
Visas for Tristan da Cunha
You will need the prior permission of the Island Council to land on Tristan. You should apply to the Administrator’s office: tdcenquiries@tdc-gov.com. You must have a confirmed and fully paid return passage; comprehensive travel and medical insurance that cover the cost of medical treatment and evacuation to Cape Town; and sufficient funds to cover the cost of your visit. A police clearance/vetting certificate must also be provided for stays beyond two months. A small landing fee is payable on arrival at the Island.
UK Emergency Travel Documents for St Helena
The St Helena authorities advise that UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are accepted for entry, transit and exit from St Helena. ETD’s should have a minimum of 6 months validity for entry, transit or exit.
UK Emergency Travel Documents for Ascension
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are accepted by the Ascension Island local authorities from St Helena or the UK. The Ascension Island local authorities can also issue Emergency Travel Documents for travel to St Helena or the UK.
UK Emergency Travel Documents for Tristan da Cunha
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are not valid for entry by tourists onto Tristan da Cunha. There is no transit through Tristan da Cunha. Tristan da Cunha cannot issue ETDs.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
Returning to the UK
Check what you must do to return to the UK.
