Coronavirus guidance is being updated.
Read the Prime Minister’s address for the latest information.

See information on measures introduced in St Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha in response to the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic.
Health advice
Visit your health professional at least 4 to 6 weeks before your trip to check whether you need any vaccinations or other preventive measures.
Check the latest country-specific information and advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website or from NHS (Scotland) on the fitfortravel website. Useful information and advice about healthcare abroad is also available on the NHS Choices website.
Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any treatment abroad, medical evacuation and repatriation. You should contact your insurance or medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
St Helena
An adequate standard of medical care is available on St Helena, but all visitors, including UK residents, are charged a fee for medical and dental treatment. If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 911 and ask for an ambulance.
Coronavirus
St Helena has introduced new entry restrictions. Only those exempt from immigration control (ie St Helena citizens, residents, holders of long term entry permits) and sponsored Technical Cooperation Officers, contractors and travellers to Ascension will be permitted to fly to St Helena. All new arrivals to St Helena will be subject to compulsory quarantine for 14 days. Check the St Helena Government website for the latest updates on its response to the coronavirus outbreak, including travel restrictions.
Ascension
There is a small hospital in Ascension that is available to deal with day-to-day complaints but sophisticated treatment is not available on the Island. The hospital charges visitors for both outpatient and in-patient treatment. If you need regular supplies of prescription drugs, you should make sure you bring adequate supplies with you. A UK-qualified dentist is available on the island.
If you intend to participate in diving sports, please note that there is no decompression facility on Ascension, nor are there qualified rescue divers. Visiting divers are strongly recommended to dive with an experienced diver. There is a small diving club on the island.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 999 and ask for an ambulance.
Coronavirus
Anyone arriving to the Island having come from UK designated Category 1 locations that exist at the present time, should be aware that Ascension is operating a screening process. This may involve a medical assessment on arrival and, if thought necessary by the medical professionals, may result in self-isolation for 14 days on the Island. Anyone arriving from UK designated Category 1 or 2 countries who within 14 days develop symptoms of cough, fever or shortness of breath should immediately:
Stay indoors and avoid contact with other people as you would with the flu
Call the Hospital to inform them of your symptoms and recent travel to the country
Tristan da Cunha
A good standard of general practice level medical care is available on Tristan da Cunha, but it can be expensive. Operations and more serious medical cases usually require medical evacuation to Cape Town and this depends on the availability of ships. The journey itself can take up to a week, or longer in bad weather.   Limited pharmaceutical supplies are available on Tristan and you should make sure you take sufficient stock of any regular prescription medication with you.
