

St Helena
The local currency is the Saint Helena Pound which is linked at parity to the British Pound (Sterling). Notes and coins are similar in denomination and appearance to their UK counterparts. Banking services on St Helena and Ascension Island are provided by the Bank of St Helena. Sterling is accepted in shops and restaurants on the island but change will often be given in Saint Helena Pounds.
Credit and debit cards are not widely used, although a few outlets and businesses will accept them. You will be charged a commission for using your credit card. Bank of St. Helena can advance cash against credit or debit cards. All cash advances are subject to charges and you will need identification bearing a photograph and signature. The Bank of St Helena also offers foreign exchange facilities.
You will need to change back any surplus local currency before leaving, as it is not possible to exchange St Helenian notes or coins once back in the UK. St Helena currency is accepted on Ascension Island.
Bank of St Helena offers a virtual prepaid Tourist Card for card payments around St Helena and Ascension and can be used to request cashback at select locations. The Tourist Card operates using QR payments through an app on mobile devices and is accepted at all locations offering the Bank’s St Helena Pay Service. More information and how to apply can be found here: http://sainthelenabank.com/tourist-card/
Ascension
Credit cards are accepted at the Chandlery in Georgetown and the NAAFI shop on Travellers Hill, but otherwise are not in general use.. Banking services are provided by the Bank of St Helena. There are no cash machines. The Bank can advance cash against credit or debit cards. All cash advances are subject to charges and you will need identification bearing a photograph and signature. The Bank of St Helena also offers foreign exchange facilities.
While the official currency is the St Helena pound, sterling bank notes are accepted in all shops and bars and the US base will accept US dollars, sterling or St Helena currency. The Saint Helena Pound is linked at parity to the British Pound (Sterling). Notes and coins are similar in denomination and appearance to their UK counterparts. Foreign currency (including Euros) can be exchanged at the bank in Georgetown.
You will need to change back any surplus local currency before leaving, as it is not possible to exchange St Helenian notes or coins once back in the UK.
Bank of St Helena offers a virtual prepaid Tourist Card for card payments around St Helena and Ascension and can be used to request cashback at select locations. The Tourist Card operates using QR payments through an app on mobile devices and is accepted at all locations offering the Bank’s St Helena Pay Service. More information and how to apply can be found here: http://sainthelenabank.com/tourist-card/
Tristan da Cunha
Tristan does not have the facilities to accept credit cards, only hard currency (British Sterling, Euros, US dollars or South African rand are all accepted). Sterling is the currency used on the Island. There is a small bank that can exchange currency but supply is limited.
