There are currently no confirmed scheduled commercial flights to/from South Africa with Airlink due to restrictions on flights introduced by the South African authorities. If you are concerned about departing or returning to St Helena please contact Christina Plato in the St Helena Tourist Office on Tel: +290 22158 or email: christina.plato@tourism.co.sh and register your details.
The Tourist Office is identifying people who need to travel to/from St Helena so that they can be contacted once flight arrangements are confirmed. The Governor’s Office in St Helena will inform the Tourist office when any flight options become available.
The Tourist Office is not able to engage with your airline, insurance company or booking agent on your behalf. You should go direct to these organisations to make bookings or get refunds.
Your journey home: re-entering the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK. You:
need to provide your journey and contact details up to 48 hours before you’re due to arrive in the UK
are not allowed to leave the place you’re staying for the first 14 days you’re in the UK except in very limited situations (known as ‘self-isolating’)
See also the list of people who are exempt from the border rules.
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) also provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
Future travel options
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK.
For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
If you cannot leave St Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha
If you cannot leave St Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha If you cannot leave, see advice on staying in St Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha during coronavirus
