

Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.    
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in St Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha
Although there is no recent history of terrorism on St Helena, Ascension or Tristan da Cunha, attacks cannot be ruled out.
Crime
Crime levels on St Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha are low.
Laws and cultural differences
St Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha are British Overseas Territories and have their own laws.
Illegal drugs and prison sentences
Do not become involved with drugs of any kind. There are severe penalties for possessing or importing even small amounts of drugs.
Alcohol bans
You are not allowed to drink alcohol in public in the Jamestown area of St Helena. 
Money
St Helena
Credit and debit cards are not widely used on St Helena, but there are a small number of places that accept them. British pounds in cash are accepted at most places, but you’ll get change in the local St Helena pounds currency.
The Bank of St Helena offers foreign currency exchange and can advance cash on a credit or debit card. There are no ATMs on St Helena.
The bank also offers a virtual prepaid tourist card for card payments on St Helena and Ascension. It works through contactless payments on smart phones and is accepted at locations that use the St Helena Pay Service.
Ascension
Credit and debit cards are not widely accepted on Ascension, but some places, such as the Chanderly and NAAFI shops, accept them.
The Bank of St Helena provides banking services on Ascension. It offers foreign currency exchange and can advance cash on a credit or debit card. There are no ATMs on Ascension.
The local currency is the St Helena pound, and British pounds are accepted at most places in cash. The US base accepts US dollars, British pounds and St Helena pounds in cash. You can also use the Bank of St Helena tourist card.
Tristan da Cunha
Credit and debit cards are not accepted on Tristan da Cunha. There is one bank where you can exchange money, but supply is not guaranteed.
British pounds, euros, US dollars and South African rand are all accepted in cash.
Restricted areas
Ascension
There are parts of Ascension you’re not allowed to visit. You should be given a list of out of bounds areas when you arrive. If you’re unsure, ask at the police station, harbour authorities or the Ascension Island government.
Currents around Ascension can be strong and there are often large swells. Get local advice and follow any warning signs shown at beaches before entering the water.
Tristan da Cunha
You must have a guide with you if you want to hike up to the Base or to Queen Mary’s Peak. You also must have a guide to travel to areas away from the main settlement, including Nightingale and Inaccessible Islands. You’ll need to pay a fee and sign an indemnity declaration.
It’s illegal to camp on Tristan da Cunha.
Gough Island
You need approval from the Tristan da Cunha administrator to go to Gough Island. However, permission to land is rarely granted as it’s a World Heritage site.
Transport risks
If you are planning to drive on St Helena, Ascension or Tristan da Cunha, see information on driving abroad.
St Helena
You can use a UK photocard driving licence to drive on St Helena for 3 months. After that, you’ll need to get a local licence from the Post Office in Jamestown. If you still have a paper driving licence, you may need to update it to a photocard licence or get the correct version of the international driving permit (IDP) as well.
There is limited public transport on St Helena, but hire cars are available.
Many roads on the island are single lane.
Ascension
You can use a UK photocard driving licence to drive on Ascension for 3 months. After that, you’ll need to get a local licence from the local Post Office. If you still have a paper driving licence, you may need to update it to a photocard licence or get the correct version of the international driving permit (IDP) as well.
There is limited public transport on Ascension, and a small number of hire cars are available.
Feral sheep and donkeys can be a hazard on the roads, especially during wet weather. Watch out for land crabs, which are a protected species. You could be fined for killing a land crab. 
Getting to the islands
St Helena
South African airline Airlink provides weekly flights between St Helena and Johannesburg from March to October. Between November and February there is a twice weekly service. From November 2024 to February 2025 there will be a weekly flight to St Helena from Johannesburg and a weekly flight from Cape Town.
Ascension
There is a monthly charter flight from South Africa to Ascension, stopping at St Helena. The Ascension Island government handles the bookings. For more information, email flight.bookings@ascension.gov.ac.
Tristan da Cunha
You can only reach Tristan da Cunha by boat. The voyage takes up to a week and longer in bad weather. Fishing and supply vessels from Cape Town visit 8 times a year, and there is one annual visit made by a South African research vessel in September or October.
You can book a berth on these ships, but space is limited.
The ship will anchor offshore as the harbour cannot accommodate large vessels. You will transfer to the island in a smaller boat, which can be hazardous in rough seas. If bad weather is approaching the island, you may have to return to your ship ahead of schedule. Fishing schedules mean ships may have to leave the island earlier or later than planned.
Extreme weather and natural disasters
Volcanic eruptions
Ascension is a dormant volcanic island which has not erupted for 600 years.
Tristan da Cunha is a volcanic island but has not had an eruption since 1961.
