Coronavirus guidance is being updated.
Read the Prime Minister’s statement for the latest information.

This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in St Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in St Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in St Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha
For information on entering St Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha, see Entry Requirements
Visas and transit
All British nationals are now required to apply for a visa to enter and transit South Africa. Visas will not be issued for British nationals who have recently been in countries South Africa considers high risk for coronavirus, which includes the UK. For more information on visas, contact the South African High Commission.
Health
Anyone arriving to the Island having come from UK designated Category 1 locations that exist at the present time, should be aware that Ascension is operating a screening process.
This may involve a medical assessment on arrival and, if thought necessary by the medical professionals, may result in self-isolation for 14 days on the Island. Anyone arriving from UK designated Category 1 or 2 countries who within 14 days develop symptoms of cough, fever or shortness of breath should immediately:
stay indoors and avoid contact with other people as you would with the flu
call the Hospital to inform them of your symptoms and recent travel to the country
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in St Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions. If country is accepting subsistence loan, add:
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
Check the St Helena Government website for the latest updates on its response to the coronavirus outbreak, including travel restrictions.
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further informatiojn
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
