From 24 July, St Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha is exempt from the FCDO advice against all non-essential international travel. This is based on the current assessment of COVID-19 risks.
Travel to St Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha is subject to entry restrictions
New arrivals to St Helena are subject to compulsory quarantine for 14 days and will be tested on day 14 to check they are free of Coronavirus. For those arriving by ship/yacht time at sea will count towards the 14 days quarantine period.
Visitors to Tristan are currently restricted to returning Tristanians and expatriates on contract to the Government of Tristan da Cunha. Tristan da Cunha has banned all visits by cruise liners and yachts. The only boats going to Tristan da Cunha are the supply vessels from Cape Town which undergo strict quarantine/sanitisation procedures before leaving Cape Town. These vessels only run 8 times per year.
For those eligible to visit Ascension, everyone must self-isolate for 14 days on arrival.
See Entry requirements for more information before you plan to travel.
Preparing for your return journey to the UK
If you’re returning to the UK from overseas, you will need to:
provide your journey and contact details before you travel
check if you need to self-isolate on your return
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
If you’re planning travel to St Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCDO’s guidance on foreign travel insurance.
St Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha are British Overseas Territories. There is no formal British diplomatic representation on any of the islands and the local authorities deal with all requests for consular assistance. See Consular Assistance
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in St Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha, attacks can’t be ruled out. See Terrorism
Travel to Tristan da Cunha is by sea only.
St Helena Airport usually offers weekly flights via Windhoek or Walvis Bay to Johannesburg but these have been temporarily suspended because of restrictions on flights introduced by the South African authorities.
Due to repairs required to the Ascension Island runway, the Ministry of Defence has temporarily rerouted the South Atlantic Airbridge via an alternative location. Monthly flights to Ascension from South Africa via St Helena are suspended. You should contact your travel agent, local tour booking office or Ascension Island employer for the latest up-to-date information. See Getting to St Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha
A good standard of medical care is available on Ascension Island, but it is limited and is not free to visitors. An adequate standard of medical care is available on St Helena but costs for major treatment can be high. Medical treatment on Tristan da Cunha is limited, not free and major treatment can be very expensive, especially if repatriation to Cape Town is needed. See Health
You can contact the emergency services in St Helena by calling 999 (fire and police) or 911 (ambulance) and in Ascension by calling 999 for all emergency services.
