Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Réunion on the TravelHealthPro website.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Réunion.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
Réunion is on the red list for entering England. From 4am on Monday 11 October, Réunion will no longer be on the red list for entering England. Check what you must do to travel abroad and return to England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Réunion
The French Government has outlined measures to stem the spread of coronavirus in the French Overseas Territories. For further information on the measures which apply to Réunion, see the French government website. The local Prefecture website will have details of any further local restrictions.
Healthcare in Réunion
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Réunion.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Réunion
Wherever possible British nationals should aim to be vaccinated in the country where they live. We will update this page when the Government of Reunion announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Reunion vaccination programme started in January 2021 and is using the Pfizer BioNTech vaccine. British nationals resident in Reunion are eligible for vaccination. Further information on the vaccination programme is available on the local Prefecture’s website and the French Government’s website.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in Reunion, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
If you need urgent consular assistance, you should contact your local British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephones numbers are available 24/7.
