

Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.    
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Réunion
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Réunion, attacks cannot be ruled out.
Outdoor activities and adventure tourism
Swimming safety
See water safety on holiday from the Royal Life Saving Society.
There have been shark attacks in Réunion. Follow advice from local authorities or your tour operator about which beaches are safe.
Scuba diving
Diving schools may have limited resources and do not always observe safety and maintenance standards. Always:
ask to see a dive operator’s credentials
check the conditions on your insurance policy – some policies require dive instructors to have certain qualifications
make sure safety equipment looks to be in good condition
make sure oxygen is available on the boat
ask about safety precautions, including the ability to transfer divers to a hyperbaric chamber
If you have not had any previous diving experience, check what to do if something goes wrong, including how to call for help while at sea.
Transport risks
Road travel
If you are planning to drive in Réunion, see information on driving abroad and check the rules of the road in RAC’s France guide as French driving rules apply. The guide lists driving regulations and other legal requirements you need to be aware of.
Check with the local authorities or your car hire company if you need an international driving permit (IDP) as well as your UK driving licence.
Extreme weather and natural disasters
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards.
Tropical cyclones
The cyclone season in Réunion normally runs from December to April. Monitor local news and check the French Weather Service (in French) and World Meteorological Organization. Follow advice issued by the local authorities.
Volcanic eruptions
There are active volcanoes on Réunion, including Piton de la Fournaise.
