Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Romania on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
Commercial flights between the UK and Romania are operating but we recommend that you check with your travel company for the latest information.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Romania.
Returning to the UK
Travelling from and returning to the UK
Check what you must do to travel abroad and return to England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
If you plan to pass through another country to return to the UK, check the travel advice for the country you’re transiting. If you will pass through a red list country, book your hotel quarantine package before travelling to the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements. For a list of Romanian Healthcare centres offering COVID tests, you should consult the Ministry of Health website (only available in Romanian).
Romania enforces mandatory quarantine in a location of your choosing for 5 days for ALL direct contacts with a confirmed case of COVID-19. This is regardless of the vaccination status, or whether you present a negative PCR test (taken as above). The only exemption from mandatory quarantine of direct contacts is for people who were previously infected with COVID-19 and they have no more than 90 days from the end of the last self-isolation.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Romania
Travel to/from airport or other port of arrival
Due to movement restrictions in place, when travelling to the airport make sure you carry:
your passport
your flight ticket
Road transit across or through Romania is possible although we recommend against entering Ukraine from Romania.
Carry your passport at all times.
Requirements when travelling e.g. public transport, taxis
You are required to wear a medical-grade face mask in all closed and indoor public spaces, including public transport and taxis. Drivers are also required to comply with this requirement.
Accommodation
Hotels, guesthouses, camping units have been allowed to open, but only when observing a specific set health-safety of rules.
Public spaces and services
Whilst the State of Alert remains in place, the Romanian government regularly reviews regulations related to mask wearing, shop and restaurant opening, public events, concerts and conferences. It is a legal requirement to wear a medical-grade mask in all indoor and outdoor public spaces. It is necessary to show proof of your vaccination or recovery status to access restaurants and events. The decrees can be found on the Romanian government website (in Romanian).
Romania will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 recovery and vaccination record and proof of COVID-19 vaccination issued in the Crown Dependencies. Your final vaccine dose must have been administered at least 10 days prior to travel. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
You should also check the restrictions in place for the specific areas of Romania you plan to visit as individual counties may adjust local regulations dependent on the rate of infection. You can find the records of daily rates of infection on the website (in Romanian).
Healthcare in Romania
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Romania.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
For a list of Romanian Healthcare centres offering COVID tests, you should consult the Ministry of Health website
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Romania
Wherever possible British nationals should aim to be vaccinated in the country where they live. We will update this page when the Government of Romania announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Romanian national vaccination programme uses the AstraZeneca, Pfizer-BioNTech, Janssen (Johnson and Johnson) and Moderna vaccines. British nationals resident in Romania are eligible for vaccination. You can register for a vaccination in Romania via the Romanian Government platform – Programare Vaccinare - Covid-19 (only available in Romanian). You will also be able to verify whether or not you are eligible for the current phase of vaccination roll-out on the site.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in Romania, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
If you receive your COVID-19 vaccination in Romania, you can get an EU Digital COVID Certificate from the national authorities. The Certificate proves that you have been vaccinated against COVID-19, received a negative test result, or recovered from COVID-19. It will help facilitate your travel within the EU and, in some countries, you can use it to demonstrate your COVID-19 status to businesses and other organisations. For further information visit the European Commission’s EU Digital COVID Certificate page.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further Information
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
