This page has information on travelling to Romania. Check what you must do to return to the UK.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport from the UK, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Romania set and enforce entry rules.
All travellers
All passengers who are travelling to Romania must complete a Passenger Locator Form (PLF).
The document should be completed no more than 24 hours before entering the country. It can also be completed at the point of entry into the country.
Requirements are country specific. You may get a minimum fine of €600 if you do not comply with the requirements.
The UK is on Romania’s “Red List” of countries of high epidemiological risk, this means that regardless of vaccination status, all travellers arriving in Romania from the UK should present a negative PCR test, taken a maximum of 48 hours before arrival. See Exemptions
If you are arriving on public transport (e.g. a flight/coach, etc) this must be taken a maximum of 48 hours before boarding.
If you are arriving in a private vehicle this must be taken a maximum of 48 hours before arriving at an international point of entry into Romania.
The additional documentation you must present on entry when travelling from the UK to Romania is determined by your reason for travel:
Tourism: you must show proof of being fully vaccinated (with both doses of a two-dose vaccine or one dose of a one-dose vaccine) at least 10 days prior to arrival in Romania (date(s) of vaccination must be specified). See ‘If you’re fully vaccinated’
EU citizens and accompanying family members of an EU citizen (including those travelling for tourism purposes), residents of Romania, or those covered by one of the other exemptions listed may present alternative documentation to the vaccine certificate. See Exemptions
If you are travelling from a country where Romania has travel restrictions, check with the Romanian Embassy in that country before you travel to Romania. Due to current travel restrictions, you may be questioned on arrival by Romanian border authorities to ensure you meet the legal entry requirements. Romanian border authorities only allow entry if they are satisfied that you meet the entry requirements, and reserve the right to deny passage.
If you’re fully vaccinated
If you are fully vaccinated or have a recent certificate of recovery (dated from at least 11 days and a maximum of 180 days before arrival) and have a negative PCR test certificate (taken as above), you do not need to self-isolate.
If you are fully vaccinated or have a recent certificate of recovery (as above) but do not have a negative PCR test (taken a maximum of 48 hours before arrival), you will have to self-isolate for 5 days.
At least 10 days must have passed since your second dose of the vaccine and the vaccine must be approved by the European Medicine Agency or by the World Health Organization.
See an overview of the Vaccination Campaign in Romania (in Romanian), including if you qualify as fully vaccinated in Romania.
Proof of vaccination status
Under the Romanian government’s current measures, you can only enter Romania from the UK for tourism purposes if you can show proof of being fully vaccinated with both doses of a two-dose vaccine or one dose of a one-dose vaccine authorised by the European Medicines Agency or by the World Health Organisation at least 10 days prior to arrival in Romania. If one of the exemptions listed applies to you, you may be able to present other documentation on entry. See Exemptions
Romania will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 recovery and vaccination record and proof of COVID-19 vaccination issued in the Crown Dependencies. Your final vaccine dose must have been administered at least 10 days prior to travel. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
Documents can be in either English or Romanian and in paper or electronic format. They must specify your name and surname.
If you’re not fully vaccinated
Under the Romanian government’s current measures, you can only enter Romania from the UK for tourism purposes if you can show proof of being fully vaccinated with both doses of a two-dose vaccine or one dose of a one-dose vaccine authorised by the European Medicines Agency or by the World Health Organisation at least 10 days prior to arrival in Romania.
If you are vaccinated or recently recovered (dated from at least 11 days and a maximum of 180 days before arrival), but do not present a negative PCR test certificate (taken a maximum of 48 hours before arrival), you will have to self-isolate for 5 days.
If you are unvaccinated or do not have a recent certificate of recovery (as above) you will have to self-isolate for 10 days; This is regardless of whether you present a negative PCR test certificate (taken a maximum of 48 hours before arrival). See information on getting a test before entry.
Find out if you qualify as fully vaccinated in Romania (in Romanian).
If you’ve had COVID-19 in the past year
If you’re not fully vaccinated but have tested positive for COVID-19 in the last year you can enter Romania. You will need to provide medical documents that attest recovery from COVID-19 and it has to be dated from at least 11 days and a maximum of 180 days before arrival. You will need to provide an additional negative PCR test, taken a maximum of 48 hours before arrival.
You can use the NHS COVID Pass to demonstrate proof of COVID-19 recovery when entering Romania.
Children and young people
Children aged 17 and over must follow the general entry requirements for fully vaccinated travellers to enter Romania.
Children aged 13 and under 16 years old, travelling with a parent or guardian who has been fully vaccinated or had COVID-19 in the past year, need to present a negative PCR test, taken a maximum of 48 hours.
Children aged 12 and under do not need to show proof of vaccination or a negative PCR test to enter Romania.
If you’re transiting through Romania
If you are transiting Romania by air from the UK on the way to your final destination you are not subject to testing requirements. However, everyone (including children under 12 years old) must fill in the Passenger Locator Form (PLF) no more than 24 hours prior to travel. You should check with your travel operator and the authorities at your final destination if a negative test is required on entry.
Transiting through Romania is permitted for travellers who will be in the territory for less than 24 hours. This is regardless of the vaccination status.
Further information about transiting through Romania can be found on the Romanian Border Force (in Romanian).
Exemptions
For third-country nationals, exemptions from mandatory self-isolation include:
Travellers arriving from third countries, regardless of the country’s classification in the area of epidemiological risk (green/amber/red), that provide evidence of full scheme of vaccination or confirmation of recovery in the last 180 days prior to entry into the country and for which at least 10 days have passed from the date of confirmation to the date of entry into the country. In addition to that, all travellers must present a negative PCR test, taken 48 hours before entering the country (if travel is done on their own) or 48 hours before starting the trip.
Children aged 12 or younger;
Children over 12 but younger than 16 years old, with a negative PCR test (taken as specified above);
Stays of up to 72 hours with a negative PCR test (taken as above) for unvaccinated travellers arriving from the UK;
Transit – travellers leaving Romania within 24 hours;
Workers travelling from Serbia, Ukraine, Republic of Moldova, as well as Romanian workers who are employed in these countries (you will be required to show proof of employment);
Students who need to commute on a daily basis can enter Romania without a negative PCR test requirement (you will be required to show proof of your studies);
Students who need to take exams or start or conclude their studies can enter Romania with a negative PCR test (taken as specified above). You will be required to show proof of your studies;
Drivers of vehicles with a maximum authorized capacity of more than 2.4 tons that provide freight transport;
Persons handed over to the Romanian authorities on the basis of readmission agreements;
Members of diplomatic missions, consular posts, other diplomatic missions accredited in Bucharest and holders of diplomatic passports, based on reciprocity, regardless of their vaccination/recovery status if they present a negative PCR test (taken as above);
Members of sports delegations, artists and their staff can enter Romania with a negative PCR test (taken as specified above);
Vaccinated national defence and security workers returning from professional travel;
Airline pilots and crew, HGV drivers and train operators;
Technical staff working on oil and gas extraction platforms in the exclusive economic zone of Romania.
The full list of entry requirements and exemptions can be found on the Romanian government website (in Romanian).
The Romanian government publishes weekly updates on current entry conditions for travellers. These decisions are published on the CNSCBT website (in Romanian).
Compassionate reasons
Exemptions to the rules may apply for some special situations, but not limited to the following:
Participation in certain family events (giving birth, marriage or death)
travel for medical interventions / treatments in cases that do not supports delays such as oncological conditions, chronic renal failure (hemodialysis)
exchange of identity documents
leaving the country for urgent cases
presentation at the vaccination centre according to the vaccination appointment
Based on supporting documents, the above exemptions only allow for a temporary suspension of the quarantine measure. For more information, consult Article 4 of Decision 2, 07/01/2022 (in Romanian).
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
If you are travelling to Romania for work, read the guidance on visas and permits as the rules have changed since 1 January 2021.
Passport validity
If you are planning to travel to an EU country (except Ireland), or Switzerland, Norway, Iceland, Liechtenstein, Andorra, Monaco, San Marino or Vatican City, you must meet the Schengen area rules.
Your passport must meet 2 requirements. It must be:
less than 10 years old on the day you enter (check the ‘date of issue’)
valid for at least 3 months after the day you plan to leave (check the ‘expiry date’)
We are asking the European Commission to clarify the 10-year rule. Their guidance for Schengen border guards may not be updated until the spring of 2022. Until then, for some Schengen countries your passport may need to be less than 10 years old during your whole visit, and the 3 months at the end of your visit may need to be within 10 years of your passport’s issue date.
Check both the issue date and the expiry date in your passport. If you renewed your passport early, extra months may have been added to its expiry date. This could affect the requirement for your passport to be less than 10 years old.
Contact your travel provider or embassy of the country you are visiting if you think that your passport does not meet both these requirements. Renew your passport if you need to.
Parental consent when travelling with minors
Some British nationals travelling with minors who hold Romanian citizenship (irrespective of whether they hold citizenship of other countries) are prevented from leaving the country without notarised parental consent from the minor’s non-travelling parent/s. While enforcement of this may vary at borders, British nationals travelling with minors who hold Romanian citizenship should obtain notarised parental consent before departure from Romania.
A list of the public notaries can be found on the website of the National Union of Public Notaries from Romania.
Visas
The rules for travelling or working in European countries changed on 1 January 2021:
you can travel to Romania for up to 90 days in any 180-day period without a visa. This applies if you travel as a tourist, to visit for family or friends, to attend business meetings, cultural or sports events, or for short-term studies or training
visits to other EU or Schengen countries do not count towards your 90-day limit in Romania as it is not in the Schengen area. Visits to Romania do not count towards your 90-day visa-free limit in the Schengen area
to stay longer, to work or study, for business travel or for other reasons, you will need to meet the Romanian government’s entry requirements. Check with the Romanian Embassy what type of visa and/or work permit you may need
if you stay in Romania with a residence permit or long-stay visa, this does not count towards your 90-day visa-free limit
Any time you spent in Romania before 1 January 2021 does not count towards the 90-day visa-free limit.
At Romanian border control, you may need to use separate lanes from EU, EEA and Swiss citizens when queueing. Your passport may be stamped on entry and exit.
You may also need to:
show a return or onward ticket
show you have enough money for your stay
Working in Romania
If you intend to work in Romania, you should register with the Romanian Office for Immigrants. You can also register as self-employed. For further information on working in Romania, contact the General Inspectorate for Immigrationat 15A, Lt. col. Marinescu C-tin Street, Sector 5, Bucharest; email: igi@mai.gov.ro.
Customs regulations
Information on customs regulations is available on the website of the National Customs Authority of Romania.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents are accepted for entry, transfer and exit from Romania.
Returning to the UK
Check what you must do to return to the UK.
