Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

There are currently extremely limited commercial options available to return to the UK from Romania.
If you live in the UK and are currently visiting Romania, you’re strongly advised to return now by commercial means. Don’t run the risk of getting stranded.
UK special charter flights will only operate for priority countries where commercial flights are not possible. You should not assume that these flights will become available in countries where commercial routes are operating. Please do not contact the contracted travel management company if no flight is advertised here.
Flights
Direct flights between Romania and the UK have been suspended by the Romanian Government. We know the suspension of flights is concerning for British people trying to leave Romania. The UK government is working closely with airlines, the Romanian authorities and other governments to make sure options are available for you to return to the UK as soon as possible.
Blue Air are starting a small number of flights from Bucharest and Cluj to Dublin, and there remain onward flights from Dublin to the UK. Check the Blue Air website and with other airlines for up to date information.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Travelling to the airport
Due to movement restrictions in place, when travelling to the airport make sure you carry:
your passport
a Romanian movement declaration form, either electronically or in paper form
your flight ticket
Overland travel and transit
Limited passenger transit across or through Romania by land may be possible. If you’re considering this option, contact the British Embassy.
Arrival in the UK
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Future travel options
The UK government is working closely with airlines, the Romanian authorities and other governments to make sure options are available for you to return to the UK as soon as possible.
This travel advice will be updated when departure options become available. Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British Embassy on Facebook.
If you cannot leave Romania
If you cannot leave Romania at this time, you should:
follow the advice of local authorities, including local measures to help minimise your risk of exposure to coronavirus
find accommodation that’s suitable for your needs.
keep in regular contact with family and friends at home, so they know you are safe and well
See more information and advice about staying where you are if you cannot return to the UK.
Further information
Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British Embassy on Twitter and Facebook
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
