

Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Romania
Terrorist attacks in Romania cannot be ruled out.
Attacks could be indiscriminate, including in places visited by foreign nationals.
Political situation and demonstrations
There is widespread military activity in neighbouring Ukraine. See Ukraine travel advice.
Public demonstrations are common. Marches and gatherings are mostly peaceful and well-policed, but take extra care in crowded places. Demonstrations, marches and gatherings can attract violence. Monitor local media and follow the instructions of local authorities.
Crime
Protecting your belongings
Be alert to petty theft in large towns, especially Bucharest. Thieves use distraction techniques and can carry out organised attacks in groups. Take care of your passport, money and personal belongings, particularly:
near money exchanges and hotels
on public transport, especially to the airport
in main railway stations
inside airport terminals
Criminals have copied credit or debit cards in some bars and restaurants.
Use a hotel safe for valuables where possible and carry a copy of your passport.
Drink spiking 
There is a risk of drink spiking in bars and clubs. Be careful not to take drinks from strangers or leave your drinks unattended.
Laws and cultural differences
Illegal drugs penalties
There is zero tolerance for drugs-related offences. Romanian authorities treat all drug offences very seriously. If convicted, you should expect a prison sentence. Increasing numbers of people, including foreign visitors, have been arrested and received lengthy sentences for drug offences at music festivals in Romania.
Using cameras in secure areas
Most airports and military bases have signs banning photography. If you’re not sure if photography is allowed, ask permission.
LGBT+ travellers
Same-sex relationships are legal in Romania. There are active LGBT+ communities and events in Romania, though the majority of LGBT+ people are not open. Find information on LGBT+ issues in Romania and read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Transport risks
Road travel
If you are planning to drive in Romania, see information on driving abroad and check the rules of the road in the RAC’s Romania guide. The guide lists driving regulations and other legal requirements you need to be aware of, such as:
carrying a first aid kit, fire extinguisher, red warning triangle and a fluorescent jacket
using winter tyres from 1 November to 1 March
You can use a UK photocard driving licence to drive in Romania. If you still have a paper driving licence, you may need to update it to a photocard licence or get the correct version of the international driving permit (IDP) as well.
Hire car companies often have stricter requirements for their customers, such as a year of driving experience, minimum age and holding an IDP.
Check if you need a UK sticker to drive your car outside the UK.
Drink-driving is a serious offence in Romania. If you are tested and found to have any alcohol in your system, you may get a fine and possible imprisonment.
There is also guidance on driving if you’re living in Romania.
Driving conditions
Road conditions are variable and  roads can be in a bad state of repair. Driving standards can be poor. Look out for:
double-parked cars
people suddenly braking or swerving to avoid potholes
horse-drawn carts, livestock and stray dogs in rural areas
Accidents and vehicle damage
You must get a report at the scene of an accident in Romania. If your vehicle is damaged before you arrive in the country, ask a Romanian customs officer or police officer to write a report on the damage. Doing this will help you avoid problems when you leave Romania.
Toll roads
You must pay a road toll ‘rovinieta’ to use the national roads. Buy a vignette (sticker) at border points and at most petrol stations. If you do not display the sticker, you may get a heavy fine.
Taxis    
Most taxis in Bucharest should list prices on the side of the vehicle and display a company name. Taxi drivers sometimes overcharge foreign visitors. Taxi apps such as Uber and Bolt are generally reliable.
Extreme weather and natural disasters   
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards. 
You may receive alerts on your mobile phone from the Romanian government in the event of extreme weather, a natural disaster or other emergency. These are in Romanian and English, and you should follow the authorities’ instructions.
Earthquakes
Romania is in a seismically active area and tremors happen regularly. The last major earthquake was in 1977. The US Federal Emergency Management Agency website has advice about  what to do before, during and after an earthquake.
