This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Romania as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Romania to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Romania
For information on entering Romania, see Entry Requirements.
Romania moved from a State of Emergency to a State of Alert on 15 May. Lockdown is being eased gradually, and measures include:
Gatherings of groups of more than three are not allowed.
Wearing protective masks or face coverings is now mandatory on public transport, workplaces, and in enclosed public spaces.
Temperature checks are in operation at many institutions that work with the public.
Food retailers, opticians, dental practices, and beauty salons are allowed to reopen. Large malls remain closed. Churches may perform services outdoors.
Schools and universities remain closed, but arrangements are being made for students in exam years to prepare for and take exams.
Hotels have been allowed to open, but only when observing a specific set of rules
From 1 June, the above measures remain in place, but:
Internal free movement throughout Romania is allowed, without a permit requirement
Beaches will open with social distancing measures
Restaurant and cafe terraces and outdoor seating areas may open, with a maximum of four people per table.
Outdoor shows up to a maximum of 500 attendees are allowed.
Until 1 June you should use the Romanian movement declaration form which you will need to fill in and carry when moving between towns, cities, and counties.
Health
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Romania.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Romania, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
