The FCDO advises against all but essential travel to:
the whole of Romania based on the current assessment of COVID-19 risks.
Check our advice on things to consider, and be prepared to stay overseas longer than planned.
Travel to Romania may be subject to entry restrictions
On 18 January 2021 the Romanian Government announced that:
anyone from the UK who has had both doses of the vaccine, and arrives in Romania more than ten days after the second dose, will no longer be expected to self-isolate;
anyone coming from the UK who has had a positive COVID 19 test will be exempt from self-isolation provided that it is more than 14 days and less than 90 days since the confirmation of the result of their test;
the suspension of the self-isolation requirement in special cases i.e. exceptional family circumstances or urgent medical needs, will apply to anyone travelling from the UK.
Otherwise, restrictions implemented since 1 January 2021 will continue to remain in place; UK nationals and non-EU/EEA nationals resident in the UK are not permitted to enter Romania for non-essential purposes, due to EU-wide COVID-19 restrictions in place for third country nationals. Essential travel is still permitted and exemptions are in place for family members of Romanian, EU, EEA and Swiss citizens, business travellers, hauliers, students and diplomatic and consular staff, who will need to show proof of the applicable exemption, with a visa, residence permit or an equivalent document issued either by the Romanian authorities or by the authorities of other states, in accordance with EU law.
These restrictions do not apply to UK nationals who are legally resident in Romania, who will need to show proof of residency to re-enter Romania.
All passengers travelling from the UK, who do not meet the requirements introduced on 18 January 2021 (including children), must show a negative COVID-19 test on arrival (RT-PCR type), taken no more than 72 hours before entering Romania.
These passengers will still have to quarantine for 14 days following their arrival in Romania. There are limited exemptions to this rule. See Entry Requirements.
Preparing for your return journey to the UK
If you’re returning to the UK from overseas, you will need to:
provide your journey and contact details before you travel
check if you need to self-isolate on your return
If your return journey to the UK transits another country, you should check whether it is subject to a travel ban or any other additional requirements. If so, contact your travel provider.
See Entry requirements for more information before you plan to travel.
Check the guidance on entering or returning to the UK.
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
If you’re planning travel to Romania, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCDO’s guidance on foreign travel insurance.
For information about COVID-19 vaccines, see the Coronavirus page.
Most visits to Romania are trouble-free.
If you’re living in or moving to Romania, read the Living in Romania guide in addition to this travel advice.
Terrorist attacks in Romania can’t be ruled out. See Terrorism.
If you need to contact the emergency services in Romania call 112.
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.
The Overseas Business Risk service offers information and advice for British companies operating overseas on how to manage political, economic, and business security-related risks.
