Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Burundi on the TravelHealthPro website.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
Commercial flights to Bujumbura International Airport have now resumed at a reduced capacity. Please consult individual carriers for more information.
All land and maritime borders are closed with the exception of goods and cargo.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Burundi.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Accommodation
Accommodation remains open but measures may be in place on a case by case basis.
Healthcare
If you think you have COVID-19 symptoms, the Government advice is to visit a testing facility for a test. However, you should be mindful that healthcare facilities in Burundi may not match UK standards.
Testing capacity in Burundi is extremely limited and results can be subject to significant delay.
In Bujumbura, those caught not wearing a mask in public gatherings could be fined 100,000 Burundian Francs.
For contact details for doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Burundi.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 Vaccines if you live in Burundi
This page will be updated as information is available about how you can get a vaccination in Burundi. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in Burundi, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British High Commission in Rwanda on +250 252 556 000.
You can sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow @UKinRwanda on Twitter and Facebook, which covers both Rwanda and Burundi.
