This page has information on travelling to Burundi. Check what you must do to return to the UK.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport from the UK, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Burundi set and enforce entry rules.
All travellers
Visitors to Burundi must get a visa to enter.
See Visas section below for more information on how to obtain a visa.
If you’re fully vaccinated
Burundi no longer requires proof of a negative COVID-19 test for arriving passengers. Arriving passengers will be tested at Bujumbura airport where they will be required to show the QR code from their COVID-19 arrival test booking. Travellers to and from Burundi must book arrival COVID-19 tests through the Ministry of Health in advance. Departing travellers do not require a COVID test unless this is required by the country to which they are travelling.
Arrivals at Bujumbura International Airport need to pay US $100 in cash for their PCR test ($50 for citizens of the East African Community).At land and maritime border crossings, foreigners are required to pay US $15 for a test, whilst Burundians are required to pay 15,000 Burundian Francs. All payments must be in cash.
Passengers will receive an email with the results of their tests.
Passengers do not have to quarantine on arrival but should self-isolate for 24 hours while awaiting the results of the PCR test. Any visitor who tests positive will be asked to self-quarantine until they have recovered, in a hotel of their own choice, at their own cost.
There is no assistance available for people who may need to leave their hotel. Ambulances from various hospitals can be called if there is a need to be transferred at hospital.
Proof of vaccination status
You do not need to present proof that you have been fully vaccinated to enter Burundi.
All travellers must have proof of a negative COVID-19 test issued in the last 72 hours.
See the If you’re fully vaccinated section above for further information.
If you’re not fully vaccinated
The same measures apply to vaccinated and non-vaccinated travellers.
See the If you’re fully vaccinated section above for further information.
If you’ve had COVID-19 in the past year
The same measures apply whether or not you have had COVID-19 in the past year. See the If you’re fully vaccinated section above for further information.
Children and young people
Those 17 and under will be asked to present identification on arrival and will be exempted from paying for COVID-19 PCR tests on arrival.
If you’re transiting through Burundi
Transiting is when you pass through one country on the way to your final destination.
The same measures apply whether or not you are transiting through Burundi. See the If you’re fully vaccinated section above for further information.
Exemptions
There are no exemptions to Burundi’s entry requirements.
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
Passport validity
If you are visiting Burundi, your passport should be valid for the proposed duration of your stay. No additional period of validity beyond this is needed.
Check with your travel provider to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Visas
Visitors to Burundi must get a visa to enter. All visitors can obtain their visa (business or tourist) on arrival at Bujumbura Airport, and any land or maritime entry points. A month-long visa costs $90 and a 3 day-long visa costs $40.For further information on visas, contact the Burundi Embassy in London or the Burundian Embassy in Kigali (telephone: +250 252 575512, fax: +250 576418) if you are travelling from Rwanda.
Carry a photocopy of your passport and visa at all times.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK emergency travel documents (ETDs) are only accepted for exit from Burundi, with destination to the UK. ETDs are not accepted for entry to Burundi.
Yellow fever
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the ]National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website](http://travelhealthpro.org.uk/country/38/burundi#Vaccine_recommendations).
Returning to the UK
Check what you must do to return to the UK.
Passengers need to book and take a pre-departure COVID-19 PCR test, which costs 60,000 Burundian Francs and must be paid for in cash at the Central Bank (BRB).
