

If you have a health condition, or you are pregnant, you may need specialist healthcare abroad. Check whether your destination country can provide the healthcare you may need and ensure you have appropriate travel insurance for unexpected medical evacuation or local treatment.
See the Coronavirus travel health and Healthcare sections in the Coronavirus page for COVID-19 health information.
At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or brought in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Other health risks
Since April 2022, Burundi has been facing the first ever Rift Valley Fever (RVF) outbreak in the country, a disease which primarily affects livestock. In response, the government has prohibited the slaughter of cattle, goats and sheep. To date, there are no report of humans contracting the disease in Burundi, though human infection remains a possibility, through mosquito bites or for people in direct contact with infected animals.
Visitors should be aware of confirmed cases in October of Ebola in Beni, North Kivu province in eastern Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), in the same province as a previous outbreak. North Kivu province borders Uganda and Rwanda. Further information and updates on Ebola can be found on the WHO website and the Public Health England (PHE) website. These are the first Ebola cases reported since ‘Outbreak 12’ in North Kivu was declared over on 3 May 2021. No cases have been reported in Burundi.
UK health authorities have classified Burundi as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For information and advice about the risks associated with Zika virus, visit the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
An outbreak of cholera continues in Burundi. You should take necessary precautions and seek urgent medical attention if you become unwell.
Malaria is endemic throughout Burundi.
Avoid swimming in Lake Tanganyika due to the risk of being attacked by wildlife and waterborne diseases.
UNAIDS estimated that in 2019 there were around 76,000 adults aged 15 or over in Burundi were living with HIV; the prevalence percentage was estimated at around 1% of the adult population compared to the prevalence percentage in adults in the UK of around 0.25%. You should exercise normal precautions to avoid exposure to HIV/AIDS.
Medical treatment
If you become ill during or immediately after travelling to the country, seek medical advice immediately. Kira Hospital, Hopital Militaire de Kamenge or Medecin sans frontieres, which operates from Hospital Prince Regent Charles, are able to provide appropriate medical care for most serious accidents within Bujumbura. Outside Bujumbura, there is a lack of adequate medical facilities and medical evacuation to Kenya or Rwanda may be necessary.
Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation; this should specifically include the very high costs of evacuation by air ambulance.
For further information, check Burundi’s list of medical facilities.
The list is not exhaustive.
