Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

There are currently no commercial options available to return to the UK from Burundi. The Burundi authorities have announced the suspension of flights into and out of Bujumbura International Airport except for cargo flights until 18 April. Land borders are also closed. We know this is concerning for British people trying to leave Burundi. The UK government is working closely with airlines, the Burundian authorities and other governments to make sure options are available for you to return to the UK as soon as possible.
What to do
If you cannot leave Burundi at this time, you should:
• follow the advice of local authorities, including local measures to help minimise your risk of exposure to coronavirus
• find accommodation that’s suitable for your needs
• keep in regular contact with family and friends at home, so they know you are safe and well
See more information and advice about staying where you are if you cannot return to the UK.
Future travel options
If you are in Burundi and wish to register your intention to leave, please email the details listed below to our mailbox ukinburundi@fco.gov.uk with your full contact details. Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British Embassy Office on Twitter. Help and support If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British High Commission in Rwanda on +250 252 556 000. The Embassy Office cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone. This page will be updated when departure options become available.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Arrival in the UK
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Further information
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
