!
Warning
FCDO advises against all travel to parts of Burundi.

This guide also has safety advice for regions of Burundi.
Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Burundi
Terrorist attacks in Burundi cannot be ruled out.
Attacks could be indiscriminate, including in places frequented by foreign nationals.
Al-Shabaab, although based in Somalia, poses a threat across the East Africa region. Al-Shabaab has previously made public threats against Burundi because of its support for the African Union peacekeeping mission in Somalia. Al-Shabaab have claimed responsibility for attacks in Kenya and Uganda, linking some attacks to support for the African Union peacekeeping mission.
Follow the advice of local authorities and exercise caution while travelling around the country.
Political situation
Security incidents do happen in Burundi, and there remains concern about the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) border region as a result of the security situation in eastern DRC.
Burundi closed its land borders with Rwanda on 11 January 2024 because of escalating bilateral tensions. It is still possible to fly between the two capitals.
There are reports of arbitrary arrests, detentions and disappearances of Burundians, most often from civil society, independent media and pockets of society perceived to be anti-government.
Grenade attacks are common in Burundi. On 10 May, there were two grenade attacks in central Bujumbura targeting crowded areas. Attacks of this kind can be used by criminal gangs or have a political motivation.
Avoid all large gatherings, stay alert and follow the instructions of local authorities.
Crime
The crime rate in Burundi is high. There is a risk of muggings at gun and knifepoint, bag-snatching, pickpocketing, burglary, car break-ins and armed carjackings.
Protecting yourself and your belongings
You can take steps to reduce your personal risk, by:
not walking in the streets or using public transport after dark, even in Bujumbura city centre
not carrying large amounts of money
taking care when withdrawing or exchanging cash, and not doing so at night
staying in hotels that have good security
using hotel safes where possible
keeping copies of important documents, including your passport and visa, separately
being wary of who you plan to meet and where, and informing colleagues or family members of your plans
Laws and cultural differences
Illegal drugs and prison sentences
There are severe penalties for all drug offences.
LGBT+ travellers  
Same-sex sexual acts are illegal. Punishment includes a prison sentence of between 3 months and 2 years and a fine. Burundi is a socially conservative society and LGBT+ people are not accepted. Showing affection in public may receive unwanted and negative attention.
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Money
Burundi is largely a cash-based society. Take US dollars dated post-2006. Most businesses will not accept or exchange older currency and US dollars with small tears will also be rejected. You can usually exchange euros and British pounds.
There’s a shortage of foreign exchange currencies in Burundi and an unofficial FX exchange rate exists. The unofficial rate can be substantially different from the official exchange rate.
Outside Bujumbura credit and debit cards are rarely accepted, and there are not many ATMs. Do not rely on cash withdrawals. You can often use mobile money in tourist hotels.
Outdoor activities
Swimming
Avoid swimming in Lake Tanganyika due to the risk of:
being attacked by wildlife
waterborne diseases
Transport risks
Road travel
If you are planning to drive in Burundi, see information on driving abroad.
You can use a UK photocard driving licence to drive in Burundi for 6 months. If you still have a paper driving licence, you may need to update it to a photocard licence.
Drink -driving is a serious offence in Burundi. Penalties include fines and possibly a prison sentence.
Road conditions
There are only a small number of paved roads and these are sometimes in poor condition. Road infrastructure generally is poor and roads are frequently blocked or damaged by landslides, especially after heavy rain.
Landslides can destroy road bridges, making some routes impassable. Check local advice on road conditions when planning travel by road and have an alternative plan in case your route is blocked.
Driving standards are very poor and vehicles are often poorly maintained. Serious accidents are common.
If you’re involved in a car accident it’s unlikely the emergency services will be able to respond quickly or effectively. You can request help from the Red Cross by calling 109. They will act as first responders, along with the local traffic police (‘police de la protection civile et gestion des catastrophes’). You can contact the police by calling 112.   
Keep car doors locked and windows closed. Avoid travelling by road outside Bujumbura after dark, because of the security situation and road safety concerns.
Roadblocks
Roadblocks and document checks are common, and not always official. Carry a copy of your passport and visa, but you may need to produce originals.
Access into and out of Bujumbura city is controlled by police at night.
Fuel shortages
Burundi is currently suffering from severe fuel shortages. Do not assume you’ll be able to get fuel in the country. Where fuel is available, there can often be long lines.
Public transport
Public transport vehicles (buses and motorbike taxis) are often poorly maintained and have low driving standards.
Extreme weather and natural disasters
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards.
Flooding
The rainy season in Burundi runs from February to May and can result in flash floods.
Earthquakes
Earthquakes in the region can be felt in Burundi. The US Federal Emergency Management Agency website has advice about what to do before, during and after an earthquake.
