The Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) advises against all but essential travel to:
the whole of Burundi based on the current assessment of COVID-19 risks
In addition and for security reasons the FCDO advises against all travel to:
Cibitoke and Bubanza provinces
areas of Bujumbura Rural province west of the Rusizi river towards the Democratic Republic of Congo border, with the exception of the Rusizi Delta Nature Reserve
the road north of Bujumbura airport towards Cibitoke
the main road running west from Kayanza through the Kibira National Park
Ruvubu National Park
The FCDO advises against all but essential travel to:
the rest of Burundi
The FCDO’s advice against all but essential travel to Bujumbura does not include airside transit through Bujumbura International Airport.
Travel to Burundi is subject to entry restrictions
commercial flights have resumed in a limited capacity and land borders have reopened (though difficulties have been reported at land border crossings)
visitors to Burundi must get a visa before travel, via any Burundian diplomatic mission. The Burundian authorities currently will not issue new visas due to the COVID-19 Pandemic
all travellers must have proof of a negative COVID-19 test issued in the last 72 hours. All travellers must then spend 72 hours in quarantine while awaiting the results of a COVID-19 test taken on arrival in Burundi. If any passenger on your flight tests positive, all passengers from that flight will be placed into quarantine for 14 days
See Entry requirements for more information before you plan to travel.
Preparing for your return journey to the UK
If you’re returning to the UK from overseas, you will need to:
provide your journey and contact details before you travel
check if you need to self-isolate on your return
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
If you’re planning travel to Burundi, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCDO’s guidance on foreign travel insurance.
You should avoid all large gatherings and remain vigilant at all times given health (COVID-19) risks.
Violent incidents continue to be reported across the country. You should limit your movements, avoid large gatherings and remain vigilant at all times.
In Bujumbura you should avoid areas which have previously experienced violence. In particular Kanyosha, Musaga, Mutakura, Kamenge, Cibitoke, Bwiza, Ngagara, Nyakabiga.
Avoid travelling by road outside Bujumbura after dark. This is due to the security situation and road safety concerns.
The security situation near the border with the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and Rwanda remains unstable, and there have been armed attacks. If you’re travelling near the border with the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) or Rwanda, you should be aware of the risk of attacks. You should exercise caution and keep up to date with developments on the current situation, including via local media and this travel advice. See Local travel
There are limited facilities up country with little French spoken, and limited infrastructure. Make sure you’re as well prepared and self-sufficient as possible. See Road travel
Consular support is not available from the British government in Burundi. However, the British High Commission in Kigali, Rwanda can provide consular support to British nationals. The Belgian Embassy in Burundi is also able to provide consular assistance to British nationals. All visitors or long term residents should register with the Belgian Embassy. See Consular assistance
There’s a high risk of street crime. There have been incidents of armed burglary, sometimes targeting foreign exchange offices and banks. See Crime
Terrorist attacks in Burundi can’t be ruled out. Al Shabaab has made public threats against Burundi because of its support to the African Union peacekeeping mission in Somalia. See Terrorism.
Since 2015, there have been sporadic grenade and arson attacks. None of these attacks target foreigners.
A long running cholera epidemic in Burundi (including Bujumbura) has caused several fatalities. You should take necessary precautions and seek urgent medical attention if you become unwell. See Health
