!
Warning
FCDO advises against all travel to parts of Burundi.

Your travel insurance could be invalidated if you travel against advice from the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO).
Areas where FCDO advises against travel
Cibitoke and Bubanza provinces
FCDO advises against all travel to Cibitoke and Bubanza provinces, due to the presence of a rebel group in the Kibira National Park and possible armed incursions from the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC).
Kayanza Province
FCDO advises against all travel on the main RN6 and RN10 roads running west from Kayanza through the Kibira National Park towards Cibitoke Province, due the presence of a rebel group and possible armed incursions from DRC.
Melchior Ndadaye International Airport to Cibitoke
FCDO advises against all travel on the RN5 road north of Melchior Ndadaye International Airport in Bujumbura towards Cibitoke.
Bujumbura Rural Province
FCDO advises against all travel to areas of Bujumbura Rural Province west of the Rusizi river towards the border with DRC, including Rusizi National Park (also known as Rusizi Delta Nature Reserve). This is due to possible armed incursions from DRC.
Areas where FCDO advises against all but essential travel
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to the area of Bujumbura Rural Province north of the Isale road.
Find out more about why FCDO advises against travel.
Burundi-DRC border
Risks associated with the closeness of potential fighting in Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and the movement of military and refugees may affect people on the Burundian side of the border, in Cibitoke, Bubanza and Bujumbura Rural provinces. The security situation in DRC near to Burundi’s border is unstable (see Democratic Republic of the Congo’s travel advice for more information). Keep up to date with developments through local media.
The only international airport in Burundi is the Melchior Ndadaye airport.  In the event that flights were not available at the airport, there are currently limited land border options to exit Burundi.  The DRC border area is unstable and the Rwandan border is closed.  The Tanzania-Burundi border continues to operate normally, although transport options may be limited by the ongoing fuel shortages.
Before you travel
No travel can be guaranteed safe. Read all the advice in this guide. You may also find it helpful to: 
see general advice for women travellers
read our guide on disability and travel abroad
see general advice for LGBT+ travellers
read about safety for solo and independent travel
see advice on volunteering and adventure travel abroad
Travel insurance
If you choose to travel, research your destinations and get appropriate travel insurance. Insurance should cover your itinerary, planned activities and expenses in an emergency.
About FCDO travel advice
FCDO provides advice about risks of travel to help you make informed decisions. Find out more about FCDO travel advice.
Get travel advice updates 
Sign up to get email notifications when this travel advice is updated.  
Follow FCDO:    
travel advice on X 
travel advice on Facebook 
Travel Aware on Instagram
