Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for India on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
All regularly scheduled international flights remain suspended. However, under a bilateral agreement between the UK and Indian governments, a limited number of flights between India and the UK continue to operate. To book and for more information you should check airline websites, which contain important guidance prior to travel. The British High Commission cannot assist with ticketing. The aviation sector remains unpredictable and is subject to change with limited notice.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in India.
More information and detailed guidelines for International Arrivals are available on the Ministry of Health website.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements. You should contact local authorities for information on testing facilities. More details on testing labs is available on the Indian Council of Medical Research website.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in India
Following the peak of India’s second Covid-19 wave in May, pressure on the Indian health care system has lifted, as the number of Covid-19 cases has fallen. Cases and deaths are falling in most parts of the country, though the situation varies from state to state. Restrictions can be implemented at short notice and may vary between states. New restrictions may involve city or state-wide restrictions like night curfews, weekend curfew and/or the imposition of Section 144 restricting the assembly of groups of people in public spaces. Other measures may include the requirement to present COVID-19 negative tests to enter some states, random testing in public areas including at airports, stations, malls and restaurants. You should monitor local media and follow any procedures put in place by local authorities. Before undertaking inter-state travel in India you should check the latest entry requirements and other testing/quarantine restrictions. Strict restrictions are in place in containment zones.
The wearing of facial/cloth masks is compulsory in all public places. There are restrictions on large gatherings. You may be penalised if you violate restrictions. Domestic flight operations resumed on 25 May 2020 but some states may have restrictions on flight operations. Check with airlines before booking flights. More information and detailed guidance is available on the websites of Ministry of Civil Aviation and Ministry of Health. Some states may have quarantine requirements in place and these may differ between states. Follow the advice of the local authorities. For Travel Tips, Air Travel and Travel Smart information, passengers may check Bureau of Civil Aviation Security (BCAS) website. All regularly scheduled international flights remain suspended.
Limited train and metro rail services have resumed.
All essential services (including groceries, pharmacies, ATMs) continue to function.
Accommodation
A limited number of hotels have resumed operations. Restrictions may differ between states.
Public places and services
India has put measures in place to limit the spread of COVID-19. There is a phased re-opening of limited number of activities and services but large gathering are still prohibited. Restrictions vary between states. You should follow the instructions of local authorities.
Healthcare in India
The second wave that India witnessed earlier this year is now receding across the country. However, regional variations remain. The healthcare system is now not under significant strain and critical care capacity is available for both Covid19 and non-Covid19 care. RT-PCR testing is now easily available.
More information and detailed guidance is available on the website of the Ministry of Health. If you have symptoms of COVID-19 (coughing and fever and/or shortness of breath) and would like to get tested and get more information, contact a registered medical practitioner. A government supported central help line number +91-11-23978046 can be used to re-direct you to a medical practitioner. Testing is now also available on demand from private laboratories in the country. See additional guidance on testing. You may be liable for prosecution if you’re symptomatic or a confirmed case and deliberately attempt to hide symptoms and/or travel history.
For contact details for hospitals, including those with English speaking doctors, visit our list of hospitals.
View Health for further details on healthcare in India.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in India
We will update this page when the Government of India announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Indian national vaccination programme started in January 2021 and is using the AstraZeneca (Covishield) and Covaxin vaccines. On Monday 9 August, the Government of India has announced that British nationals resident in India are eligible for vaccination if they choose to join the programme. Further information on the vaccination programme is available on the Government of India’s Vaccination Website
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in India, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
India Coronavirus information:
call the government of India 24 hour helpline on +91-11-23978046, or toll free on 1075
state helpline numbers
visit the Ministry of Health website
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British High Commission or Consulate. Alternatively use these contacts, the telephone numbers are all 24/7:
New Delhi: +91 (11) 2419 2100
Chennai: + 91 (44) 42192151
Mumbai: +91 (22) 6650 2222
Goa: +91 (832) 663 6800
Goa
Mumbai (for Maharashtra, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh)
Delhi
Chennai (for South India)
