

The Cricket Men’s World Cup will take place in India from 5 October to 19 November 2023.
The Women’s Cricket Team will tour India in December 2023. T20 Men’s matches will take place in India from 25 January to 11 March 2024.
For fans travelling to India to attend the cricket matches, here are some tips to help make your visit safe and enjoyable.
Before you go
Make sure you have a valid passport, visa and travel insurance.
Sign up for India travel advice email alerts, to get email notifications when our India travel advice gets updated. Monitor the official Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) website for more information.
Read the FCDO’s health advice and the latest information on health risks and what vaccinations you need for India on TravelHealthPro.
Follow FCDO Travel on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram.
Staying and travelling in India
Carry photo ID
Always carry a form of photo ID. You may be asked to show it to authorities. Keep a copy of your passport, visa and flight ticket separately from originals when travelling. Leave a copy with friends or family at home, and save them electronically so you can access them.
Plan your travel
There will be increased demand for flights and hotels during the tournaments. Transport routes will be very busy. Plan your journey in advance and allow plenty of time, particularly on match days.
Accommodation
By law, hotels, hostels and other accommodation must register the stay of foreign guests. Before booking, check that your accommodation is registered with the Foreigners’ Registration Office (FRRO).
Driving safety
British tourists have been scammed by drivers who offer cheap transportation or hotels, unwanted tours and extended taxi rides. If you are planning to hire a car or use taxis, see safety and security in our Travel Advice for more information.
Match tickets
Check the official BCCI website for ticket information. Only buy match tickets from official providers or they may not be valid. You could be prosecuted if you sell tickets unofficially. You must have your physical ticket to enter the stadium. Tickets can be picked up from collection points a week before the game.
At the matches
Some items are banned at cricket stadiums, including:
water bottles
cans
lighters
alcohol
cigarettes
sharp object
explosive materials.
Refer to the BCCI website for guidelines for entering individual stadiums.
Scams
Be cautious in tourist areas, where scammers and touts target foreigners.
Sexual assault
Sexual assaults occur. This includes attacks on foreign female visitors in tourist areas and cities. Avoid isolated areas when alone at any time of day.
Local laws and customs
Respect local laws and cultural differences. There may be serious legal penalties for doing something which may not be illegal in the UK.
See safety and security on the India Travel Advice page for more information.
Alcohol
Laws on alcohol, including buying, drinking and the legal drinking age, vary by state. Alcohol is banned in several states, including Gujarat. Some cricket matches will be held in Ahmedabad, which is in the state of Gujarat.
It is an offence to drink alcohol in public places. See safety and security for more information.
In some states, foreign nationals and non-resident Indians can buy 30-day alcohol permits.
Get advice from your travel agent, hotel or the local authorities about the laws in areas you are visiting.
Health
The standard of medical facilities in India varies between government and private hospitals. Make sure you have comprehensive travel health insurance that covers pre-existing conditions and accessible funds to cover the cost of any treatment abroad.
The British High Commission in New Delhi publishes a list of the most commonly used hospitals including those with English-speaking staff.
Onward travel
If you are planning to travel elsewhere in the region during the tournament, you should check the Travel Advice page for every country you plan to visit or transit through. Entry requirements, and local laws and customs, will likely be different for other countries.
