This page has information on travelling to India. Check what you must do to return to the UK.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport from the UK, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in India set and enforce entry rules.
International flights suspension
Scheduled international flights remain suspended. A limited number of flights are currently operating between India and the UK under a bilateral agreement but these arrangements may be subject to change at short notice. To book and for more information you should check airline websites, which contain important guidance, prior to travel. The British High Commission cannot assist with ticketing. The aviation sector remains unpredictable and is subject to change with limited notice.
All travellers
All travellers will be subject to thermal screening by health officials on arrival. You must comply with all instructions and screening requirements. More information and detailed guidance is available on the website of Ministry of Health. You may need to provide contact details and be asked to download Arogya Setu app.
If you’re fully vaccinated
Pre-boarding
All travellers should (i) submit a self-declaration form on the online “Air Suvidha” portal before the scheduled travel (ii) upload a negative COVID-19 RT-PCR report. This test should have been conducted within 72 hrs prior to undertaking the journey. You also need to submit a declaration with respect to the authenticity of the report and will be liable for criminal prosecution, if found otherwise. You should not use the NHS testing service to get a negative PCR test in order to facilitate your travel to another country. You should arrange to take a private test.
Since 20 December 2021 all travellers arriving in New Del-hi, Mumbai, Kolkata, Chennai, Bengaluru, and Hyderabad from ‘At Risk’ countries (including the UK) have to pre-book their COVID-19 test as per the latest Ministry of Civil Aviation guide-lines.
On arrival
Since 22 January 2022 (00.01 hrs IST) there has been a change to the entry requirements for all international travellers, including those from the United Kingdom, following the World Health Organization classification of SARS-CoV-2 (B.1.1.529; Omicron) as a variant of concern. This includes 7-days mandatory home quarantine.
A further COVID-19 PCR test is required on the 8th day of arrival in India. If the 8th day test is negative, you should self-monitor your health for the next 7 days. The results of the 8th day test must be uploaded to the “Air Suvidha” portal. The revised guidelines are available on the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare website.
Any traveller testing positive for COVID-19 will have to isolate at home for 7 days. Travellers transiting through Delhi will need to undergo institutional quarantine. The samples of all those who test positive will be sent for genomic sequencing.
Testing on departure
You will not be able to travel if you’re showing coronavirus symptoms (you will need to self-isolate and travel later). You should comply with any additional healthcare screening measures put in place by the authorities prior to your departure.
Residents of India
All land borders with Bangladesh, Bhutan, Myanmar and Nepal in East and North East India are closed for movement of people, except returning Indian nationals.
If you’re not fully vaccinated
Pre-boarding
All travellers should (i) submit a self-declaration form on the online “Air Suvidha” portal before the scheduled travel (ii) upload a negative COVID-19 RT-PCR report. This test should have been conducted within 72 hrs prior to undertaking the journey. Each passenger shall also submit a declaration with respect to the authenticity of the report and will be liable for criminal prosecution, if found otherwise. You should not use the NHS testing service to get a negative PCR test in order to facilitate your travel to another country. You should arrange to take a private test.
Since 20 December 2021 all travellers arriving in New Del-hi, Mumbai, Kolkata, Chennai, Bengaluru, and Hyderabad from ‘At Risk’ countries (including the UK) have to pre-book their COVID-19 test as per the latest Ministry of Civil Aviation guide-lines.
On arrival
Since 22 January 2022 (00.01 hrs IST) there has been a change to the entry requirements for all international travellers, including those from the United Kingdom, following the World Health Organization classification of SARS-CoV-2 (B.1.1.529; Omicron) as a variant of concern. This includes 7-days mandatory home quarantine.
A further COVID-19 PCR test is required on the 8th day of arrival in India. If the 8th day test is negative, you should self-monitor your health for the next 7 days. The results of the 8th day test must be uploaded to the “Air Suvidha” portal. The revised guidelines are available on the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare website.
Any traveller testing positive for COVID-19 will have to isolate at home for 7 days. Travellers transiting through Delhi will need to follow institutional quarantine. The samples of all those who test positive will be sent for genomic sequencing.
Testing on departure
You will not be able to travel if you’re showing coronavirus symptoms (you will need to self-isolate and travel later). You should comply with any additional healthcare screening measures put in place by the authorities prior to your departure.
Residents of India
All land borders with Bangladesh, Bhutan, Myanmar and Nepal in East and North East India are closed for movement of people, except returning Indian nationals
Children and young people
Children will also have to isolate at home for 7 days. If they test positive upon arrival in Delhi they will have to undergo institutional quarantine. Travelling parents/guardians should note that it may not always be possible for parents to have access to the child/children during their period of isolation.
If you’re transiting through India
Travellers transiting through Delhi will need to follow institutional quarantine.
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
Passport validity
To avoid possible problems at immigration, make sure your passport is valid for a minimum of 180 days at the time of entry into India.
Your passport must be machine readable, with 2 blank pages for your visa and valid for a minimum of 180 days at the time of your visa application.
OCI and PIO card holders
In March 2016, the government of India announced that OCI cardholders would no longer need a visa to enter India. The ‘U’ visa sticker that was placed in the foreign passport of OCI cardholders has been discontinued with immediate effect and you’ll no longer need to show this sticker to the immigration authorities when you enter and leave India. You’ll only need to present a valid passport and your OCI card. For more information, visit the website of the Indian Ministry of Home Affairs.
The Indian Ministry of Home Affairs has issued new guidelines permitting all OCI and PIO cardholders to visit India. British nationals who do not hold these cards may also travel to India if they have a valid visa but are not eligible for eVisas at present. For information on categories and process, visit the Indian Bureau of Immigration website.
Visas
You’ll need to get a visa before travelling to India.
Make sure you get the right visa for your travel and that it’s valid for the purpose and duration of your stay. If you enter India on the wrong visa, you could be detained on arrival and you may be deported and blacklisted, meaning that you cannot enter India again. Make sure you meet entry requirements. You can find further information on the Indian High Commission website or the Indian Immigration Bureau website.
You should check your visa for any endorsements that state you should register your arrival in India within a certain amount of time. Failure to do so could lead to you being denied permission to leave.
There have been changes made by the Indian government on visa formalities for foreigners who are hospitalised in India when travelling on a short-term tourist visa. If you or someone you’re travelling with is travelling on a tourist visa and is hospitalised, get in touch with the local Foreigners Registration Office (FRO) to check if visa conversion is needed.
India’s Bureau of Immigration has announced that with immediate effect, foreign nationals who arrive at an Indian port holding non-machine readable passports will be denied entry. Carriers who transport foreign passengers holding non-machine readable passports may be subject to a fine.
Overstaying on your visa is an offence. Make sure you leave the country before your visa expires.
Applicants of Pakistani origin
All applicants of Pakistani origin who hold dual British-Pakistan nationality must apply for an Indian visa on their Pakistan passport. If you have renounced your Pakistani nationality or cancelled your Pakistani passport, you will need to submit documentary proof of this.
The processing time for visa applications received from persons of Pakistani origin is 7-8 weeks or more. Processing time for applications from those holding dual British-Pakistan nationality will be substantially longer. For further details see the Indian High Commission website.
Airport tax
User Development Fees (UDF) apply at many airports. The fees are around Rs.1,000 per international passenger and Rs.150 to 260 per domestic passenger. This should already be included in the cost of airline tickets. If for any reason the fee is not included in your ticket it will be collected at the airport check-in counter in Indian rupees.
Polio vaccination
If you travel to India from Pakistan, Israel, Kenya, Ethiopia, Nigeria, Afghanistan or Somalia you may need to hold a valid polio vaccination certificate. Contact your nearest Indian Embassy or High Commission for further information.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
Accommodation and C-Forms
Make sure you stay in accommodation that is licensed with the Indian authorities. Ask your accommodation provider whether they’re registered to file ‘C-Forms’ with the Foreigners’ Registration Office (FRO). You’re strongly advised to use accommodation that is registered with the FRO.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK ETDs are valid for entry to or exit from India with the relevant Indian visa. They are also valid for airside transit. However, a holder of an ETD will not be able to both enter and exit India using the same ETD. You should be aware that you will have to apply to the local authorities for an exit permit if you’re leaving India on a passport or ETD that is different to the one on which you entered. This must be done online, and can take anywhere between five and 15 working days for straightforward applications. You should factor this into your timeframe to leave India when you are booking flights. For further information visit the FRRO website.
Returning to the UK
Check what you must do to return to the UK.
