FCDO advises against travel to parts of India.
The Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) cannot provide tailored advice for individual trips. Read this travel advice and carry out your own research before deciding whether to travel.
Emergency services in India
These services provide support in English, Hindi and additional languages.
Telephone: 112 (ambulance, fire, police)
Find out about call charges
You can also download the 112 India mobile app which can track your location to support response in an emergency.
Indian Ministry of Tourism Helpline
Telephone: 1800 11 1363
Find out about call charges
The tourism helpline provides:
advice on reputable sites and services
the option to make a complaint about a company
Contact your travel provider and insurer
Contact your travel provider and your insurer if you are involved in a serious incident or emergency abroad. They will tell you if they can help and what you need to do.
Refunds and changes to travel
For refunds or changes to travel, contact your travel provider. You may also be able to make a claim through insurance. However, insurers usually require you to talk to your travel provider first.
Find out more about changing or cancelling travel plans, including:
where to get advice if you are in a dispute with a provider
how to access previous versions of travel advice to support a claim
Support from FCDO
FCDO provides guidance on staying safe and what to do if you need help or support abroad, including:
finding English-speaking lawyers, Find a professional abroad - lawyers, funeral directors and translators and interpreters in India
dealing with a death in India
being arrested in India
getting help if you’re a victim of crime
If you are in hospital
if you are affected by a crisis, such as a terrorist attack
Find more support for British nationals abroad.
Contacting FCDO
Follow and contact FCDO travel on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram. You can also sign up to get email notifications when this travel advice is updated.
Help abroad in an emergency
If you are abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.
You can also contact FCDO online.
FCDO in London
You can call FCDO in London if you need urgent help because something has happened to a friend or relative abroad.
Telephone: 020 7008 5000 (24 hours)
Find out about call charges
Risk information for British companies
The Overseas Business Risk service offers information and advice for British companies operating overseas on how to manage political, economic, and business security-related risks
