Coronavirus
There is an ongoing outbreak of coronavirus (COVID-19) and cases have been confirmed in India. India has announced additional measures to limit the spread of coronavirus. You should comply with any additional screening measures put in place by the authorities.
The Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advises against all but essential travel to India. In further restrictions to curb the spread of Covid-19, the Government of India has announced that no international commercial flights will be allowed to land in India from 22 March 2020 for one week.
If you are a British national in India, you should be prepared to stay in country until commercial flights resume. You will need to be ready to comply with local isolation, testing or quarantine requirements, and to rely on the local health system. Given that many additional state level restrictions remain in place, and continue to be introduced, moving within India may be more difficult than normal for British nationals. For example, hotels in some states have been instructed to refuse entry to foreign nationals and some states have entry restrictions in place. Unless you have an urgent reason to travel within India you may have to stay where you are whilst the flight ban and lockdowns remain in place.
In addition to a one day curfew from 7am until 9pm on 22 March, the government has announced a lockdown in 75 Covid-19 affected areas (including major cities like New Delhi, Mumbai and Kolkata) from 6am on 23 March to midnight on 31 March, which will cause disruption to transport and non-essential services. You should continue to monitor local media for the latest information, and follow instructions of the local authorities.
The state Government of Kerala has advised a health clearance certificate is required for all foreign nationals before they will be permitted to board outbound international flights. You will need to contact your local COVID 19 District Cell to commence the process. If you do not have a clearance certificate you will not be permitted to leave until you have completed the health clearance process. In light of these restrictions we are advising British nationals currently in India against all but essential travel to the state of Kerala.
The situation remains fluid and we advise British nationals to continue to monitor the local advice on any state level restrictions and follow the instructions of the local authorities. The range of measures currently in place across India include restrictions on large gatherings in a number of places in addition to closures of cinemas, leisure/social facilities, educational institutions and the suspension of sporting events. Some North Eastern states are no longer allowing foreign nationals to enter and while some states are encouraging tourists to leave the state.
It is a mandatory requirement in a number of states for foreign nationals to complete a health declaration. You may be liable for prosecution if you are symptomatic or a confirmed case and deliberately attempt to hide symptoms and/or travel history. The Government of India announced the suspension of all existing visas due to an ongoing outbreak of coronavirus (COVID-19). This came into effect from 12:00 GMT 13 March 2020 to 15 April 2020 at the port of departure. This does not affect the visas of foreign nationals who are already in India.
Visa free travel for Overseas Citizens of India is also suspended from 12:00 GMT 13 March 2020 until 15 April 2020. This does not affect OCI holders who are already in India.
The Government of India has released new FAQs for foreigners currently in India who are worried about overstaying their visa.
The Indian Government is monitoring the progress of coronavirus cases around the world and updating their travel restrictions regularly in response. You should check the Indian Bureau of Immigration website to see the current list of travel restrictions before making any travel arrangements.
Anyone in India seeking more information should call on +91-11-23978046 (Government of India, 24 hour helpline) or Toll Free No: 1075 or States Helpline Numbers and or visit the Ministry of Health website.
Further advice on coronavirus is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
Preparing for travel
At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. You can take medicines into India as long as you carry the prescription with you. Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic substances are prohibited. For further information, contact the High Commission of India in London or view the website of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and the website of Indian Customs. Guidance on best practice when travelling with medicines is also available on the NaTHNaC website.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Air pollution
Severe air pollution is a major hazard to public health, especially during the winter months. New Delhi and other North Indian cities are currently experiencing extremely high levels of pollution. Children, the elderly, and those with pre-existing medical conditions may be especially affected. If you’re pregnant, or have a respiratory or heart condition you may wish to consult a medical practitioner before you travel.
You can find advice on air quality on the World Health Organization (WHO) website and check air quality levels for Indian cities in real time on the World Air Quality Index website. More information and advice is available on the TravelHealthPro website and from the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research, Delhi Pollution Control Committee.
Medical treatment
Local medical facilities are not comparable to those in the UK, especially in more remote areas. For psychiatric illness, specialised treatment may not be available outside major cities. In major cities private medical care is available, but expensive. The British High Commission publishes a list of the most commonly used hospitals. You are strongly advised to have comprehensive travel insurance that covers the duration of stay in India.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 102 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
Transplant surgery
If you’re travelling to India for organ transplant surgery, check in advance with the hospital to find out what proof they require of your circumstances in the UK. You may need to submit evidence of your marriage and birth of your children before the operation can take place. You can get copies of marriage and birth certificates from the General Register Office in the UK. You may wish to consider having them legalised by the FCO Legalisation office before travelling. The British High Commission can’t provide guarantees and certificates on your behalf.
Altitude
There are some high altitude tourist destinations in and around India where visitors can be susceptible to altitude sickness and extreme weather conditions. If you are planning to travel to a higher altitude area, our advice would be to check details and any precautions/medications you need to take before making the journey.
Diseases
Mosquito-borne diseases like dengue fever occur all year round. There’s been an increase in the number of cases of dengue fever, including in New Delhi.
UK health authorities have classified India as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For information and advice about the risks associated with Zika virus, visit the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
Cases of Chikungunya Virus have been confirmed in India, including in New Delhi. You should take steps to avoid being bitten by mosquitoes.
There was a confirmed case of Nipah Virus in Kerala in June 2019. For information, visit the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
