Monsoons
Travel in India during the monsoon season (June to October) can be hazardous. Monsoon rains cause flooding and landslides that can cut off some towns and villages for days and lead to disruption of train and roadway services. You should be aware that cities, including metros, can also be affected. Check access routes, monitor the local and international weather updates from the Indian Meteorological Department, follow the advice of local authorities and your travel company before travelling, and take extra care.
Cyclones and tropical storms
Cyclones and tropical storms are common, particularly off the east coast of India in the months from September-December. In Bay of Bengal, the tropical cyclone season has two peaks, April to June and September to December. In South India cyclones or storms may occur during June to November.
The effects of a tropical cyclone are as follows:
high winds: buildings can be damaged or destroyed; trees, power and telephone lines toppled; debris turns into projectiles
storm surge: a hurricane can provoke a temporary rise in sea level of several metres which can flood coastal areas and damage buildings on the shoreline
very heavy rainfall: this can cause localised or widespread flooding and mudslides
Tropical cyclones can seriously damage and disrupt infrastructure, including buildings, roads and communications.
You should monitor local and international weather updates from the Indian Meteorological Department and follow the advice of local authorities and tour operators.
See our Tropical cyclones page for advice on what to do if you’re caught up in a storm.”
Earthquakes
Several parts of India lie on highly active fault zones. The most active are those states along the length of the Himalayas. Earth tremors are common in these regions and can cause landslides in hilly and mountainous areas. Limited emergency response vehicles, equipment, and medical facilities could increase the impact that an earthquake could have in these areas. The US Federal Emergency Management Agency has advice about what to do before, during and after an earthquake.
