

FCDO advises against travel to parts of India.
This section has safety advice for regions of India. It only covers regions where FCDO has specific advice.
You should also read FCDO’s overall travel advice and safety and security advice for India.
Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh
FCDO advises against all travel to the region of Jammu and Kashmir (including Pahalgam, Gulmarg, Sonamarg, the city of Srinagar, and the Jammu-Srinagar national highway), except for:
travel by air to and from the city of Jammu
travel within the city of Jammu
travel within the region of Ladakh
There have been frequent terrorist incidents in Jammu and Kashmir, and less often in parts of north-east India, including but not limited to Meghalaya, Nagaland and Manipur. There is a continuing threat, mainly towards Government of India targets.
There have been violent protests and operations by security forces in the Kashmir Valley, which resulted in a number of deaths and serious casualties. There is a heavy security presence. Curfews and other restrictions can be imposed and lifted frequently and quickly. Stay vigilant, monitor local media and follow the advice of local authorities and your travel company.
Foreigners are vulnerable in rural districts and outside the main population centres and tourist areas. There is a risk of unpredictable violence, including bombings, grenade attacks, shootings and kidnapping. The long-standing policy of the UK government is not to make substantive concessions to hostage takers. The level of consular assistance that the British High Commission in India can provide in Jammu and Kashmir is severely limited.
Other northern states
FCDO advises against all travel within the vicinity of the India-Pakistan border, except for at Wagah where travellers can cross the border.
Follow FCDO advice if you are trekking in India.
North-east India
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to the state of Manipur.
In April-May 2023 violent ethnic clashes broke out across Manipur, including in the state capital Imphal. Curfews and other restrictions have been imposed in many parts of the state. There may be transport disruptions. Mobile internet services remain suspended.
You should:
avoid protests or large gatherings
follow the advice of the local authorities and your travel company
monitor local media and follow any curfew restrictions
If you decide that it is essential to travel to Imphal and the surrounding Imphal Valley areas, then only travel by air after checking the latest security conditions.
There is a risk of terrorism and organised crime in Manipur, especially in rural areas. Although foreigners have not been targeted, attacks can be indiscriminate.
Some insurgent groups are active in north-east India. During 2021:
violent clashes along the disputed border between Assam and Mizoram led to deaths
violent communal and political clashes were reported in Tripura
a number of civilians were killed by security forces in Nagaland near the Myanmar border
There have been skirmishes on the India-Bangladesh border. Travellers are advised to check with local authorities before visiting these areas.
Protests and large gatherings are common in India’s north-eastern states. They can happen without warning and occasionally result in disorder. Avoid protests and leave as soon as possible if a crowd develops. Review your security arrangements carefully and follow the advice of local authorities.
Permits from the Government of India are needed for travel to Sikkim, Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland and parts of the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. Apply at least 3 months in advance. In India, apply at the liaison office of the state for which you need a permit or the Foreigners Regional Registration Office. Permits for the Andaman and Nicobar Islands can be issued on arrival in Port Blair but this is not the case for the other states. Permit regulations can change at any time. Contact the relevant state liaison office or the Indian Bureau of Immigration for the latest guidance.
For travelling to Mizoram, you need to register online with the Superintendent of Police in Aizawl or state CID at e-FRRO online portal. If you decide that it is essential to travel to Manipur, you will need to inform the Criminal Investigation Department (CID) office in Imphal Manipur of your arrival in the state by road or the Immigration counter at the Imphal airport if flying into the state.
If you are travelling to Mizoram, Meghalaya and Nagaland you are advised to check guidelines issued by local authorities – you should do the same if you decide that it is essential to travel to Manipur. This is because traffic along the National Highways connecting them with each other and with Assam may be disrupted due to blockades and protests, particularly in border areas.
East India
Maoist (or Naxalite) insurgents target police officers, paramilitary forces and government officials. This caused several deaths and injuries in 2019. The Government of India has identified 25 districts as worst affected, 21 of which are in East India.
Get advice from your travel provider and local authorities if you plan to travel to rural areas of:
Gaya, Jamui or Lakhisarai (Bihar) - there is risk of violent crime in the rural areas of Bihar
Bastar, Bijapur, Dantewada, Kanker, Narayanpur, Rajnandgaon, Sukma (Chhattisgarh)
Chatra, Giridih, Gumla, Khunti, Latehar, Lohardaga, West Singhbhum, Saraikela-Kharaswan (Jharkhand) - there is risk of violent crime in the rural areas of Jharkhand
Kandhamal, Kalahandi or Malkangiri (Odisha) - foreign tourists and researchers must keep to security guidelines during visits to tribal areas in Odisha
Western region
FCDO advises against all travel within the vicinity of the India-Pakistan border, except for at Wagah where travellers can cross the border.
The India-Pakistan border in Gujarat and Rajasthan is unmarked in some areas. Approaching it away from an official crossing point could be dangerous. Where it is unmarked, you could stray into Pakistan illegally.
Goa
Most British nationals visiting Goa do so without problems. However, because of the high number of tourists there are many opportunistic criminals operating in the region.
There have been some serious incidents involving British nationals in recent years, including sexual assaults and the murder of a young female traveller.
It is an offence to drink alcohol in public places in Goa. If you drink alcohol outside the limits of a place licensed to serve it, you could be fined or imprisoned. You can drink within the limits of a registered beach shack or bar, for example, but you cannot do so on an open beach or road.
Also read the safety and security guidance for India, including:
crime risks, including sexual assault
penalties for alcohol and drug offences
risks of road travel
