Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

India’s land borders are closed and international flights are suspended until 14 April 2020. There are currently no commercial options available to leave India.
UK special flights
The UK government announced on 5 April that it will operate special flights for British tourists, short term visitors and their direct dependents to return to the UK. A charter flight departed Goa on 8 April.
The UK government has arranged a second round of charter flights and departure locations from India to bring home British nationals normally resident in the UK. In addition to the seven flights already announced from Goa, Mumbai and New Delhi from 8-12 April, the following additional flights are now scheduled.
From Goa to London on 14 and 16 April : to book, visit and register your details
From Goa to London (via Mumbai) on 18 April : to book from Goa, visit and register your details or to book from Mumbai visit and register your details
From Amritsar to London on 13, 17, and 19 April : to book, visit and register your details
From Ahmedabad to London on 13 and 15 April : to book, visit and register your details
From Hyderabad (via Ahmedabad) to London on 17 April : to book from Hyderabad, visit and register your details or to book from Ahmedabad visit and register your details
From Chennai (via Bengaluru) to London on 20 April : to book from Chennai, visit and register your details or to book from Bengaluru visit and register your details
From Kolkata (via Delhi) to London on 19 April : to book from Kolkata, visit and register your details or to book from Delhi visit and register your details
From Thiruvananthapuram (Trivandrum) (via Kochi (Cochin)) to London on 15 April to book from Trivandrum, visit and register your details or to book from Cochin visit and register your details
The following airports will be covering the following areas:
Delhi: Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Himachal, Uttarakhand, Rajasthan (Jaipur), Madhya Pradesh North (Gwalior)
Ahmedabad: Gujarat, Rajasthan (Udaipur), Diu
Amritsar: Punjab, J&K, Rajasthan (Sri Ganganagar)
Bangalore: Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh South (Anantapur)
Chennai: Tamil Nadu, Pondicherry, Andhra Pradesh South (Nellore)
Cochin: Kerala
Goa: Goa
Hyderabad: Telangana, Andhra Pradesh North
Kolkata: West Bengal, North East states, Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha, Chhattisgarh
Mumbai: Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh South (Indore), Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Daman
Trivandrum: Kerala
British travellers should take the earliest available opportunity to return to the UK by visiting the booking portal for their respective cities to reserve seats.
If you have difficulty booking online, please send an SMS text message containing ONLY your full name to +44 7537 416 124 and someone from our team will get in touch to assist you.
tickets will not be on sale at the airport. Do not travel to the airport without a confirmed ticket
To make a booking, you will need:
a valid passport and be able to meet the entry requirements of the UK
contact details for each traveller you are registering
your UK home address and postcode
your means of payment, such as credit or debit card details
If you cannot pay the cost of the ticket, please send an SMS text message containing ONLY your full name to +44 7537 416 124 and someone from our team will get in touch to assist all other options available to you for getting funds. If you have exhausted all other options available to you for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan to cover the cost of the ticket. You would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK.
Please do not contact the High Commission directly to reserve a seat as we are unable to take your booking.
A small number of you may receive a call about these flights, if you fall into a vulnerable group. To protect you from scams, callers will identify themselves to you using personal information you have already submitted to the High Commission. However, please do not wait for a call - if you want to board one of these flights visit the portal now.
You will not be able to travel if you are currently exhibiting Coronavirus symptoms (you will need to self-isolate and book onto a later flight). There will be mandatory healthcare screening at the airport. You should comply with any additional screening measures put in place by the authorities prior to your departure. If you travel to the airport while exhibiting symptoms, you may be moved to a mandatory quarantine facility for further testing.
More information on the flights themselves, including cost and baggage allowances, will be found on the booking portal.
Travel to the airport
Guidance on how to travel to airports will follow once you have a ticket secured. The British High Commission will provide transport to the airport for passengers where possible and submit the necessary permissions to the Government of India. The address that you provide will be where you are picked up from (unless you are asked to meet at a muster point), so it is vital that you provide information that is as accurate as possible. We currently do not advise making your own way to the airport due to ongoing restrictions in India, unless in exceptional circumstances we are not able to arrange transport for you.
It may not be possible to purchase food or water on the way to the airport so please stock up in advance of travelling.
In the meantime do check the validity of your Indian visa. If it has or is due to expire you will need to apply online for an extension at E-FRRO: details in the visa section above.
Exact timings of flights from India will be published on our travel advice and social media channels as soon as they are confirmed.
In the meantime, we continue to work with our partners to secure seats for British nationals on flights that other countries are running.
Given many parts of India remain under lockdown or have additional restrictions in place, we are working with the local authorities to enable British nationals to reach airports. More details will follow.
Sign up for email alerts and follow the British High Commission on Twitter and Facebook. Once flights have been confirmed, you should leave plenty of time to get to the airport or muster points as movement may be more difficult than normal. You should make sure you are able to show authorities:
proof of a booked flight (a boarding pass if possible)
your passport
Future options
The British High Commission is in contact with airlines, the Indian authorities and other governments to make sure commercial options for returning to the UK are available as soon as possible.
If you cannot leave India at this time, you should:
follow the advice of local authorities, including local measures to help minimise your risk of exposure to coronavirus - comply with local isolation, testing or quarantine requirements, and to rely on the local health system.
find accommodation that’s suitable for your needs. unless you have an urgent reason to travel within India, you may need to stay where you are whilst the flight ban and lockdowns remain in place
many additional restrictions are being introduced at state level. Some states have entry restrictions in place and may quarantine foreign nationals on arrival. Hotels in some states have been instructed to refuse entry to foreign nationals
keep in regular contact with family and friends at home, so they know you are safe and well
If you’re currently visiting India and you wish to return urgently to the UK, email Conqry.Newdelhi@fco.gov.uk with the following details for you and any family members with your:
full name
date of birth
passport number
visa status and contact details
exact location in India
date of arrival in India
details of the return flight that you had booked back to the UK, if applicable
any special circumstances we may need to be aware of, such as a medical condition
Due to the high number of emails, we are unable to send an individual response to everyone. There is no need to email again if you have already sent these details and received an autoreply. 
The situation remains fluid. You should continue to monitor the local advice on any state level restrictions and follow the instructions of the local authorities.
The state Government of Kerala has advised a health clearance certificate is required for all foreign nationals before they will be permitted to board outbound international flights if/when they occur. You will need to contact your local COVID 19 District Cell to begin the process.
Staying in where you are
If your hotel asks you to leave, ask them to provide alternative accommodation, or talk to the police who can assist. If you have nowhere to go and you need urgent help, contact the nearest British consulate:
New Delhi: +91 (11) 2419 2100
Chennai: + 91 (44) 42192151
Mumbai/Goa: +91 (22) 6650 2222
The Government of India has ordered that food, medicines and other supplies remain available, but we are aware that supplies are running low, and some shops are closed.
If you need medicine, use Google to find nearby pharmacies and ask if they will deliver. If not, you should walk (not drive) to the nearest pharmacy or ask your accommodation provider to help. Carry any medical papers or prescriptions and be prepared to answer questions if stopped by the police. If your usual medication is not available, consult a local doctor for an Indian alternative or go to the nearest hospital. In a genuine medical emergency, call an ambulance.
In Goa there is a lockdown and curfew, meaning if you are outdoors you may be stopped and detained by authorities. You should stay indoors as far as possible. If you need to go out, be prepared to explain why if you are stopped.
The Goa State Government has set up the following helplines:
food requests +91 9423890066
medicine requests +91 7823026971
food deliveries in North Goa +91 94238 90077 (WhatsApp and Telegram only)
The authorities have also confirmed that small shops will be open throughout Goa and people are allowed to walk to these to buy essentials. If you require urgent consular assistance in Goa, call our consular helpline on +91 (22) 6650 2222.
The Punjab government has asked foreign travellers who have arrived in Punjab after 30 January 2020 to provide the following details. This is essential for those who have not been contacted by civil administration, health and police department so far. Details can be submitted on dial-112@punjabpolice.gov.in or on WhatsApp number +91 9779920404.
Name of person:
Father/Mother name:
Name of airport and date of landing in India
Date of arrival in Punjab
Addresses
Permanent (in passport)
Present stay
Hotel, if any
Places of visit in Punjab
Contact details
Mobile no
Landline no
Email id
For information on travelling within India and extending your visa, see Coronavirus
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British High Commission on phone or web messenger on:
New Delhi: +91 (11) 2419 2100
Chennai: + 91 (44) 42192151
Mumbai/Goa: +91 (22) 6650 2222
Goa
Mumbai (for Maharashtra, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh)
Delhi
Chennai (for South India)
The British High Commission New Delhi cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone. This page will be updated when departure options become available. To get the latest information, register your details(see above) and sign up for travel advice email alerts.
Further information
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
