

FCDO advises against travel to parts of India.
Read this guidance alongside FCDO’s overall travel advice and warnings for India.
Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. You should remain vigilant at all times.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in India
Terrorists are very likely to try to carry out attacks in India.
Terrorist attacks have mainly focused on Government of India interests. Security has been strengthened, notably at major hotels and transport hubs. However, terrorists may target places visited by larger groups, including foreigners, such as:
restaurants, hotels, bars and markets
stations and airports
places of worship and tourist attractions
festivals, sports venues and beaches
You should:
stay alert, especially in public places
check local media for warnings before you travel
report unattended baggage quickly
Take particular care during periods of national or religious significance, such as:
Republic Day (26 January)
Independence Day (15 August)
Diwali (usually in October or November)
Eid (date changes each year)
Terrorist and insurgent groups include Lashkar-e-Tayyiba (LET), Jaish-e-Mohammed (JEM) and Naxalite groups. Media reports suggest Daesh (formerly referred to as ISIL) and other groups may also be planning attacks. Al Qaeda in the Indian Subcontinent (AQIS) has also previously targeted India.
Regions with heightened risk
There is a heightened risk of terrorism in some Indian regions, including:
Jammu and Kashmir, and less often in some parts of north-east India
rural areas of Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh and Odisha
parts of Bihar and West Bengal
Read regional risks for more information.
Political situation
Strikes or ‘bandh’ or ‘hartal’, political rallies and demonstrations occur frequently and can become violent. The risks are higher during elections and after the death of party or government leaders. Protests may also occur at short notice, especially around days of national importance. Local authorities may impose curfews and other restrictions on short notice. Transport and public services including mobile and internet network coverage may be disrupted at short notice.
You should:
avoid protests or large gatherings, including at religious sites
follow the advice of the local authorities and your travel company
monitor local media and follow any curfew restrictions
Crime
If you’re the victim of crime, call 112 and ask for police assistance.
You can also call 1091, India’s Women Helpline Number, if you’re the victim of sexual harassment.
Protecting your belongings
Keep a copy of your passport, visa and flight ticket separately from originals when travelling. Leave copies at home where others can access them, and also store them electronically so you can access them easily. If your passport is lost or stolen, tell the police immediately and get a police report.
Take particular care of your possessions on buses, trains and in crowds. Criminals may ride past on bikes and snatch valuables.
Be cautious in tourist areas, where scammers and touts target foreigners.
Scams
Card skimming and confidence scams are prevalent. Cybercrime and internet scamming have increased noticeably during the lockdown periods.
Criminals often use the details of British High Commissions and embassies to carry out their fraud. These scams come in many forms and can pose great financial loss for the victims. Be cautious and check the authenticity of details before responding.
Drink and food spiking
As in the UK, be wary of accepting drinks or food from strangers or of leaving drinks unattended. There have been reports of spiked drinks and food, with travellers, including British nationals, subsequently being robbed or assaulted.
Sexual assault
Sexual assaults occur. This includes attacks on foreign female visitors in tourist areas and cities.
Women travellers often experience verbal and physical harassment by individuals or groups of men. Serious sexual attacks involving both Indian and foreign nationals have been reported. British women have been victims of sexual assault, including rape, in Goa, Delhi, Rajasthan, Mumbai and Kerala. Avoid isolated areas, including beaches, when alone at any time of day.
You may also want to read FCDO:
advice for women travelling abroad
information for British nationals affected by rape or sexual assault abroad
Sexual offences against children
The penalties for child sex offences are severe. There is a minimum jail term of 20 years, which may go up to life imprisonment, or a death sentence for those convicted of raping a child aged under 12.
Laws and cultural differences
There may be serious legal penalties for doing something which may not be illegal in the UK.
You should also be aware that in some areas there may be an expectation that people dress more modestly.
Alcohol laws and bans
Laws on alcohol, including buying, drinking and the legal drinking age, vary by state. Get advice from your travel agent, hotel or the authorities about the laws in areas you are visiting.
It is an offence to drink alcohol in public places.
In some states, foreign nationals and non-resident Indians can buy 30-day alcohol permits.
There is often a ban on the sale of alcohol during major religious festivals, national holidays and elections.
Alcohol is banned in:
Bihar
Gujarat
Mizoram
Nagaland
the region of Lakshadweep
Manipur
If you drink or possess alcohol in these states, you could be arrested without bail. Charges can carry a sentence of 5 to 10 years.
Smoking and e-cigarette bans
Smoking is banned in most public places. You should only smoke in designated smoking areas.
E-cigarettes and related products are banned. You will be unable to buy e-cigarettes in India or bring them into the country.
Illegal drugs and prison sentences
Do not get involved with any illegal drugs. Drugs are not categorised into Class A, B and C, unlike in the UK. There is a minimum sentence of 6 months for possession of small amounts deemed for personal consumption only. A 10-year sentence for possession of other amounts applies. The judicial process is slow and trials with detention lasting several years are normal.
Using cameras and binoculars in secure areas
Activities involving cameras and binoculars, like photography, bird-watching or plane spotting, may be misunderstood. Be particularly careful near military sites, government buildings, airports and railway stations.
Swimming safety
Every year, several people drown due to strong currents in the sea. There are strong currents off many coasts. Most beaches do not have warning signs, flags or lifesaving equipment. Follow warnings and instructions issued by lifeguards. Emergency service standards may differ from those in the UK.
Trekking in India
Trekkers should:
travel in groups
use reputable local guides and stay on established routes
check if you need any special permits
Leave details of where you’re going and when you expect to return with your accommodation. You are extremely unlikely to have a phone signal in the mountains, so make sure your accommodation provider registers your whereabouts using the online C form.
It is illegal to possess or operate satellite phones without prior permission of the Indian authorities.
The following hazards exist throughout the year, especially above 3,000 metres (m):
altitude sickness - see Health
sudden weather changes, including thunderstorms
avalanches and snow drifts
landslides, flooding and rock falls
There are no commercial mountain rescue services operating above 3,000m. In some border areas only the Indian Air Force can carry out air rescues. However, they are under no obligation to perform them and only carry out rescues during working hours. Make sure your insurance policy covers you for altitudes over 2,400m and mountain rescue and helicopter costs.
LGBT+ travellers
Homosexuality is legal in India. However same-sex marriage is still illegal. Indian society remains conservative. This includes attitudes to LGBT+ people, which can be less accepting than in the UK. There is a risk of harassment and discrimination, especially outside of big cities.
LGBT+ travellers should be aware that showing affection in public, for example, could result in unwanted attention. Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Child custody and family law
Indian family law is very different from UK law. Particular caution is needed when child custody becomes an issue. In case of dispute, consult a local lawyer to find out more about the relevant laws.
Commercial surrogacy is illegal for foreign nationals in India. Overseas Citizens of India (OCI) can seek legal guidance on surrogacy if at least one partner is an Indian passport holder.
Wildlife, animal products and souvenirs
It is illegal to buy, sell, kill or capture any protected wild animal or trade its parts without a licence. India has a strong legal framework to regulate and restrict wildlife trade and is also a signatory to the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES). If you’re caught purchasing or trafficking such goods illegally, you will be prosecuted and receive prison sentences or fines.
Transport risks in India
Be wary of unofficial transport at airports.
British tourists have been scammed by drivers who offer cheap transportation or hotels, unwanted tours and extended taxi rides. Travellers who accept these offers have reported being threatened with violence when they have declined to pay.
Taxis and rickshaws
When using taxis or rickshaws:
avoid travelling alone and hailing taxis on the street, especially at night
use official taxi ranks. Pre-paid taxi services are available from inside all terminal buildings and many hotels offer transfers. Ride-hailing services like Uber and Ola are also widely available in India
if you’re being collected at the airport by a hotel driver, make sure they properly identify themselves before you set off
if you book a taxi online, there’s usually a way to share journey details with your contacts who can then follow your location
Cars and motorbikes
Road accidents including car and motorbike accidents are one of the biggest causes of injury and death overseas. Police figures estimate more than 150,000 people are killed every year in road accidents across India. Several British nationals are either injured or killed each year on Indian roads.
Road traffic hazards include:
reckless driving and manoeuvring
poorly maintained vehicles
poor quality and congested roads
roads shared with pedestrians, carts, cattle and other livestock
vehicles running red lights
protests - see Political Situation
extreme weather and natural disasters - see Extreme weather
Driving in India
If you intend to drive, you must check that your UK driving licence is current and valid. Make sure that your licence allows you to drive in the country you are visiting. You may need a permit.
You can drive with a UK licence and an accompanying international driving permit after you arrive, but rules on how long you can drive on a UK licence vary from state to state. To arrange for a driving test, you should contact the traffic police office in the state where you live or intend to drive.
Driving can be dangerous in urban and rural areas due to wandering livestock, including cows. Cows are considered sacred in India and road accidents involving cows can draw crowds or potentially lead to violence. You may become at risk of being attacked or becoming a victim of extortion, even if you were not driving the vehicle. If you hit a cow or pedestrian, you should comply with the police if they are at the scene. If the police are not present, it could be unsafe to remain at the scene of an accident of this nature, and drivers may instead wish to seek out the nearest police station, if safe to do so. You may also wish to contact your nearest British High/Deputy High Commission.
It is common to use your horn or flash your headlights frequently to announce your presence on the road.
If possible, avoid travelling at night and in fog. Always travel in a well-maintained vehicle. Seatbelts are not common in three-wheel taxis (autos) or in the back seats of taxis. Try to use only cars that have seatbelts.
If you travel by motorbike, wear a helmet and proper footwear.
Buses are a convenient mode of transport, serving almost every city across India. However, they are often driven fast and recklessly. Accidents are common.
Vehicles drive on the left in India. Pedestrians should exercise caution when crossing streets, even in marked pedestrian areas and especially at night, as vehicles sometimes drive on the wrong side of the road.
Air travel
When you are travelling through an airport, allow enough time to complete check-in and security procedures, as your baggage may need to go through x-rays and checks.  Allow time for transiting between flights if you need to change from international terminals to domestic terminals, even if using the airport shuttle service.
Tourists flying on charter flights booked through a tour operator can only fly into and out of the country by using the services of the same charter operator. Chartered flight passengers are not permitted to fly on inward or outward journeys using a scheduled airline.
Rail travel
India has a large passenger train network throughout the country. Train travel in India is generally safe. Nevertheless, train accidents do occur and have previously resulted in death and serious injury. There are police and / or guards on trains and stations if you need help.
When travelling by train:
do not accept food or drinks from strangers
thefts are common - take care of your passport and valuables
avoid people at railway stations offering tickets and tours
Sea travel
Tourist boats and other small crafts rarely carry life-saving equipment.
Although piracy has not so far affected India’s territorial waters, it poses a significant threat in parts of the Indian Ocean. Shipping/mariners should follow shipping industry guidelines on precautions to take.
Ships and crew must have the necessary authorisation and paperwork before entering Indian territorial waters and abide by Indian laws and regulations. If carrying weapons on board ships in Indian territorial waters, you must follow Indian laws and regulations.
Extreme weather and natural disasters
India can experience extreme weather events that can be hazardous to life and disrupt infrastructure, including buildings, roads and communications.
Plan your travel so that you are aware of seasonal weather events as well as what to do if there is a natural disaster.  Follow the advice of local authorities and consult the Indian Meteorological Department for up-to-date information.
Monsoons
Heavy monsoon rains continue to affect parts of the country, causing severe flooding and landslides. There are major disruptions to train and roadways affecting towns and cities. Other services including telephone lines, internet services and electricity supply may also be affected. Monitor local and international weather updates from the Indian Meteorological Department and follow the advice of local authorities and your travel company.
Highest risk: June to October
Monsoon rains can cause:
flooding and landslides, sometimes leading to significant loss of life
towns and villages to be cut off for days
serious disruption to road and train travel
disruption in big cities due to flooding
Cyclones and tropical storms
Highest risk:
East coast of India (September to December)
Bay of Bengal (April to June and September to December)
South India (June to November)
Tropical cyclones can cause:
high winds: buildings can be damaged or destroyed, trees, power and telephone lines toppled, flying debris becomes dangerous
storm surge: a hurricane can provoke a temporary rise in sea level of several metres which can flood coastal areas and damage buildings on the shoreline
very heavy rainfall: this can cause localised or widespread flooding and mudslides
More about travelling in areas at risk of tropical cyclones.
Earthquakes
Several parts of India lie on highly active fault zones (including areas of the north and north-east). The most active are along the length of the Himalayas. Earth tremors are common in these regions and can cause landslides. Limited emergency response vehicles, equipment, and medical facilities could increase the impact an earthquake has.
Know what to do before, during and after an earthquake (US government site).
