Coronavirus guidance is being updated.
Read the Prime Minister’s address for the latest information.

This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in India as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in India to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in India
On 1 May, the Government of India extended the lockdown across India until 17 May.
The Indian Ministry of Home Affairs has issued new guidelines to regulate activities in this period. All districts of India have been divided into ‘Green’, ‘Amber’ and ‘Red’ zones, based on the level of infection. The level of restrictions vary between these zones.
No flights, trains or any form of interstate public transport are operational. Inter-district and inter-state movement, except for medical purposes, is prohibited.
All essential services (including groceries, pharmacies, ATMs) continue to function. The Government of India has ordered that food, medicines and other supplies remain available, but we are aware that supplies are running low, and some shops are closed.
The wearing of facial/cloth masks is now compulsory in all public places. There are strict restrictions on large gatherings. You may be penalised if you violate movement restrictions.
Restrictions may vary between states. Some states are not allowing foreign nationals to either enter or exit. Hotels in some states have been instructed to refuse entry to foreign nationals.
Goa
In Goa there is a lockdown and curfew, meaning if you are outdoors you may be stopped and detained by authorities. You should stay indoors as far as possible. If you need to go out, be prepared to explain why if you are stopped.
The Goa State Government has set up the following helplines:
food requests +91 9423890066
medicine requests +91 7823026971
food deliveries in North Goa +91 94238 90077 (WhatsApp and Telegram only)
The authorities have also confirmed that small shops will be open throughout Goa and people are allowed to walk to these to buy essentials. If you require urgent consular assistance in Goa, call our consular helpline on +91 (22) 6650 2222.
Punjab
The Punjab government has asked foreign travellers who have arrived in Punjab after 30 January 2020 to provide the following details. This is essential for those who have not been contacted by civil administration, health and police department so far. Details can be submitted on dial-112@punjabpolice.gov.in or on WhatsApp number +91 9779920404.
Name of person:
Father/Mother name:
Name of airport and date of landing in India
Date of arrival in Punjab
Addresses
Permanent (in passport)
Present stay
Hotel, if any
Places of visit in Punjab
Contact details
Mobile no
Landline no
Email id
Visas
Check the validity of your Indian visa. If it has expired, or is due to expire, you will need to apply for a visa extension via the FRRO website. We are aware that there are currently issues with the FRRO website – we are working with the relevant authority to rectify. Try at off-peak times if you are experiencing problems. Visa free travel for Overseas Citizens of India (OCI) is also suspended.
All regular and e-visas which have expired since 1 February, or are due to expire during the suspension of international air travel, will be extended at no cost if you apply online. This extension will be granted for a period of up to 30 days from the date that international air travel resumes.
The Government of India has published FAQs for foreigners currently in India who are worried about overstaying their visa. Visit the FRRO website if you have any visa-related queries.
Accommodation
If your hotel asks you to leave, ask them to provide alternative accommodation, or talk to the police who can assist. If you have nowhere to go and you need urgent help, contact the nearest British consulate:
New Delhi: +91 (11) 2419 2100
Chennai: + 91 (44) 42192151
Mumbai/Goa: +91 (22) 6650 2222
Health
If you need medicine, use Google to find nearby pharmacies and ask if they will deliver. If not, you should walk (not drive) to the nearest pharmacy or ask your accommodation provider to help. Carry any medical papers or prescriptions and be prepared to answer questions if stopped by the police. If your usual medication is not available, consult a local doctor for an Indian alternative or go to the nearest hospital. In a genuine medical emergency, call an ambulance.
For contact details for hospitals, including those with English speaking doctors, visit our list of hospitals.
View Health for further details on healthcare in India.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Coronavirus
It is a mandatory requirement in a number of states for foreign nationals to complete a health declaration. You may be liable for prosecution if you are symptomatic or a confirmed case and deliberately attempt to hide symptoms and/or travel history.
The Indian Government has expanded testing, including through private laboratories, though testing is still available only on the prescription of a registered medical practitioner. A Government supported central help line number +91-11-23978046 can be used to re-direct you to a medical practitioner.
if you have symptoms of COVID-19 (coughing and fever and/or shortness of breath) and would like to get tested and get more information, contact a registered medical practitioner
note that a history of travel still applies unless you have been in contact with a confirmed positive case
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British high commission or consulate. Alternatively use these contacts, the telephone numbers are all 24/7:
New Delhi: +91 (11) 2419 2100
Chennai: + 91 (44) 42192151
Mumbai/Goa: +91 (22) 6650 2222
Goa
Mumbai (for Maharashtra, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh)
Delhi
Chennai (for South India)
The British High Commission New Delhi cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone. This travel advice will be updated when departure options become available. To get the latest information, sign up for travel advice email alerts.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Local information
call the Government of India 24 hour helpline on +91-11-23978046, or toll free on 1075
State helpline numbers (see below for Goa)
visit the Ministry of Health website
If you’re in Goa and need more information, call the Goa State helplines:
North Goa: +91 832-2225083
South Goa: +91 832-2794100
Goa Covid-19 related medical assistance: 104 (landline) or +91 9607909559 (Whatsapp)
Goa essential medicine supplies: +91 7823026971
