The Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) advises against all travel to:
the immediate vicinity of the border with Pakistan, other than at Wagah (currently closed due to coronavirus)
Jammu and Kashmir, except for (i) travel within the city of Jammu, (ii) travel by air to the city of Jammu, and (iii) travel within the Union Territory of Ladakh
The tourist destinations of Pahalgam, Gulmarg and Sonamarg, the city of Srinagar and the Jammu-Srinagar national highway are within the areas where the FCDO advises against all travel.
The FCDO advises against all but essential travel to all other parts of India, based on the current assessment of COVID-19 risks.
Coronavirus cases across India have risen sharply over the last few weeks. The healthcare system has come under significant strain as the number of COVID-19 cases increase across India. Critical care capacity is severely limited including shortages of equipment, oxygen, and bed spaces for both COVID-19 and non-COVID-19 emergencies. RT-PCR testing has become more difficult to arrange and results may take longer than expected, including for those who need negative RT-PCR tests to return to the UK. More information and detailed guidance is available on the website of Ministry of Health.
A limited number of flights between India and the UK continue to operate. To book tickets and to see important guidance prior to travel you should check airline websites. The British High Commission cannot assist with ticketing. The aviation sector remains unpredictable and is subject to change with short notice. To get the latest information sign up for travel advice email alerts. If you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British Embassy, Consulate or High Commission.
From 4am on Friday 23 April, visitors who have been in or transited through India in the previous 10 days cannot enter the UK. British and Irish nationals, and third country nationals with residence rights in the UK arriving in England from India will be required to quarantine in a hotel. Different requirements apply for arrivals into Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland.
From 1 January onwards people with residence rights include: holders of Indefinite Leave to Remain; holders of existing leave to enter or remain (i.e those with biometric Residence permits) or an entry clearance/visa that grants such leave e.g. students, workers, etc (excluding visit visas); holders of EU Settlement Scheme (“EUSS”) leave; those who have rights of entry under the Withdrawal Agreements (including returning residents with a right of residence under the EEA Regulations and EEA frontier workers); family members of EEA nationals with rights under the Withdrawal Agreement.
For more information, see Local travel and Terrorism
Travel to India is subject to entry restrictions
In some states this may include mandatory quarantine in an institutional isolation facility at your own expense.
Detailed guidelines and the Standard Operating Procedure for international arrivals are available on the Ministry of Health website.
For more information you should consult your airline, read the announcement by the Government of India Ministry of Aviation and sign up for email alerts so you can keep up to date with our latest travel advice. New restrictions can be put in place at short notice to curb the spread of the virus and arrival rules may vary between states. You should closely monitor the instructions of local authorities and media reports.
You should co-operate with local authorities and declare any symptoms that you may develop.
See Entry requirements for more information before you plan to travel.
Preparing for your return journey to the UK
If you’re returning to the UK from overseas, you will need to:
provide your journey and contact details before you travel
check if you need to self-isolate on your return
If your return journey to the UK transits another country, you should check whether it is subject to a travel ban or any other additional requirements. If so, contact your travel provider.
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
If you’re planning travel to India, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCDO guidance on foreign travel insurance.
For information about COVID-19 vaccines, see the Coronavirus page.
Cyclone Tauktae has intensified on 16 May, and is expected to bring very strong winds and heavy rainfall across the western coast of India, including Kerala, Karnataka, Goa, Maharashtra and Gujarat for the next 2-3 days. You should take extra care, monitor local and international weather updates from the Indian Meteorological Department and follow the advice of local authorities.
Various farmers unions are continuing their protest at Delhi’s borders following their march to Delhi on 26 and 27 November 2020. Traffic into the city may be affected and cause delays for both private and public transportation and other disruptions. Protests may intensify at short notice especially around national days of importance. You should closely monitor local media reports and follow the instructions of local authorities.
Over one million British nationals visited India in 2019. Most visits are trouble-free.
Severe air pollution is a major hazard to public health, especially during the winter months. New Delhi and other North Indian cities are currently experiencing extremely high levels of pollution. See Air pollution
Terrorists are very likely to try to carry out attacks in India. Recent attacks have targeted public places including those visited by foreigners. There have been media reports suggesting Daesh (formerly referred to as ISIL) may have an interest in attacking targets in India. There may be an increased threat to places visited by British nationals such as religious sites, markets, festival venues and beaches. You should be vigilant at this time, monitor local media and take all precautions for your safety. See Terrorism
Maoist (or Naxalite) insurgents specifically target police officers, paramilitary forces and government officials in parts of India, causing several deaths and injuries in 2019/20. The government of India has identified some districts as the worst affected. See Local travel
You should avoid protests and large gatherings. Stampedes have occurred during some events with large crowds, including at political rallies and religious gatherings, resulting in deaths and injuries. They can happen without warning and occasionally result in disorder. See Political situation
Travel in India during the monsoon season (June to October) can be hazardous. See Monsoons
UK health authorities have classified India as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For information and advice about the risks associated with Zika virus, visit the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
The Indian Ministry of Tourism has a 24 hour multi-lingual telephone helpline on toll free number 1800 111 363 providing visitors to India with information about travel and tourism.
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission. Consular support is severely limited in parts of India where the FCDO has existing advice against all travel and all but essential travel (as set out above).
