Terrorists are very likely to try to carry out attacks in India.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out more about the global threat from terrorism.
Terrorist attacks are carried out by a number of terrorist and insurgent groups including Lashkar-e-Tayyiba, Jaish-e-Mohammed and the Indian Mujahideen. There have been recent media reports suggesting Daesh (formerly referred to as ISIL) interest in attacking targets in India. There may be an increased threat to places visited by British nationals such as religious sites, markets, festival venues and beaches.
While the main focus of terrorist attacks has been against Indian government interests, terrorists have also targeted places visited by westerners including public places like restaurants, hotels, railway stations, markets, places of worship, festivals and sporting venues. Be vigilant, especially in public places. Always monitor local media before planning your travel for any local travel warnings. If you see unattended baggage, report it promptly. Security has been strengthened, notably at major hotels and transport hubs (airports, railway and metro stations). Take particular care in the lead up to and on days of national significance, like Republic Day (26 January), Independence Day (15 August), Diwali (28 October 2019) and Eid (5 June 2019).
In some areas terrorist incidents are frequent, especially Jammu and Kashmir (excluding Ladakh) and less frequently in parts of the north east.
On 7 March 2017 an explosion on a passenger train travelling between Bhopal and Ujjain in Madhya Pradesh injured a number of passengers.
On 27 July 2015, terrorists attacked a police station in Dinanagar in the Gurdaspur district of Punjab causing several fatalities.
On 2 November 2014, there was an explosion that caused multiple fatalities on the Pakistan side of the Wagah border crossing after the flag lowering ceremony.
In November 2008 terrorists attacked a number of sites in Mumbai, including luxury hotels, a railway station and a restaurant. Over 160 people were killed and more than 300 were injured. British nationals were among the casualties.
A number of insurgent groups are active in Assam and there are random incidents of violence and killings. Violent extremist groups are also active in the rural areas of Jharkand, Chhattisgarh, Odisha, and in parts of Bihar and West Bengal.
There’s a heightened threat of terrorist attack globally against UK interests and British nationals from groups or individuals motivated by the conflict in Iraq and Syria. You should be vigilant at this time.
