FCDO advises against travel to parts of India.
The Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) provides advice about risks of travel to help British nationals make informed decisions. Find out more about FCDO travel advice.
Areas where FCDO advises against travel
Your travel insurance could be invalidated if you travel against FCDO advice. Consular support is also severely limited where FCDO advises against travel.
India-Pakistan border area
FCDO advises against all travel within the vicinity of the India-Pakistan border, except for at Wagah where travellers can cross the border.
Jammu and Kashmir
FCDO advises against all travel to the region of Jammu and Kashmir (including Pahalgam, Gulmarg, Sonamarg, the city of Srinagar, and the Jammu-Srinagar national highway), except for:
travel by air to and from the city of Jammu
travel within the city of Jammu
travel within the region of Ladakh
Manipur
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to the state of Manipur.
In April-May 2023 violent ethnic clashes broke out across Manipur, including in the state capital Imphal. Curfews and other restrictions have been imposed in many parts of the state. There may be transport disruptions. Mobile internet services remain suspended.
You should:
avoid protests or large gatherings
follow the advice of the local authorities and your travel company
monitor local media and follow any curfew restrictions
Find out more about why FCDO advises against travel to these regions.
Before you travel
No travel can be guaranteed safe. Read all the advice in this guide as well as support for British nationals abroad which includes:
advice on preparing for travel abroad and reducing risks
information for women, LGBT+ and disabled travellers
Follow and contact FCDO travel on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram. You can also sign up to get email notifications when this travel advice is updated.
Travel insurance
If you choose to travel, research your destinations and get appropriate travel insurance. Insurance should cover your itinerary, planned activities and potential expenses in an emergency.
