Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Slovenia on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Slovenia.
Returning to the UK
Travelling from and returning to the UK
Check what you must do to travel abroad and return to England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
If you plan to pass through another country to return to the UK, check the travel advice for the country you’re transiting. If you will pass through a red list country, book your hotel quarantine package before travelling to the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements. You should check that the test result can be provided in the correct format and language.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Moving around in Slovenia
Movement between all statistical regions is permitted.
Public spaces and further measures
A surgical mask or FFP2 type mask must be worn in all enclosed public spaces, on public transport, in open places and outside where a distance of 1.5 metres cannot be maintained and in private vehicles when travelling with members of other households for work purposes.
Fabric masks are no longer permitted.
Face masks are not compulsory for children under the age of six, primary school pupils up to 5th grade when in classrooms, and people practicing non-contact sports, if a distance of 3 metres can be maintained.
Many of the rules apply across all of Slovenia, but some rules are specific to regions depending on their Covid-rating. You can find the status of a specific statistical region on the Slovenian Government website.
Unless stated elsewhere, the rules below apply to all of Slovenia. Further details can be found on the Slovene government website.
People aged 12 and above will need to demonstrate their COVID-19 status through the Slovene “PCT” in order to access services and venues. This includes leisure facilities (shops, bars, restaurants, hotels, museums and libraries), public transport, public sports events, religious gatherings and public cultural events.
The Slovene PCT can be demonstrated by showing a valid identity document and one of the following three criteria:
A full vaccination certificate (from 1 February, over 18s will need to show that their second COVID-19 vaccination was received no more than 270 days previously). OR proof of a booster shot (except for booster vaccines Vaxzevria (COVID-19 Vaccine) manufactured by AstraZeneca and Covishield manufactured by Serum Institute of India/AstraZeneca, which will not be accepted as proof of a booster shot);
A negative PCR test taken within the last 72 hours or antigen result from a test taken within the last 48 hours;
A document (dated more than 10 days ago and less than six months ago) proving you have recently recovered from COVID.
You should expect to be asked to show evidence that you meet one of these requirements, together with a valid identity document.
The only exceptions to this requirement are: emergency departments in hospitals; COVID testing and COVID and flu vaccine centres; grocery stores and pharmacies that are not located inside shopping malls; and charities providing urgent support. In grocery stores and pharmacies you should expect social distancing measures of 10 square metres per customer to be in place, and a sign at the entrance showing the maximum number of people that are allowed inside.
Slovenia will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 recovery and vaccination record and proof of COVID-19 vaccination issued in the Crown Dependencies. From 1 February 2022, people aged 18 and above, will need to show proof that their second COVID-19 vaccination was received no more than 270 days previously. Vaccination certificates issued after a booster dose will also be considered as proof of vaccination, with the exception of the vaccines Vaxzevria (COVID-19 Vaccine) manufactured by AstraZeneca and Covishield manufactured by Serum Institute of India/AstraZeneca. If you are travelling with a printed NHS PDF proof of vaccination status, it must be dated 1 November 2021 onwards and be the version for travel purposes, not the version for domestic use in the UK, in order to ensure that the certificate can be scanned successfully, if certification in Slovenia is required. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
If you hold a Slovenian health card, rapid antigen tests are available free of charge at test centres. If you do not hold a Slovenian health card, you should expect to pay for a test. See the list of test centres.
Restaurants and bars are open between 5am and 10pm, and are only allowed to provide a seated service (indoors or outdoors). Takeaway services are permitted. People aged 12 and above will need to demonstrate their COVID-19 status through the Slovene “PCT” (as above).
Nightclubs, bars and restaurants that offer entertainment (music or dance) are not allowed to open
Hotels are allowed to open. People aged 12 and above will need to demonstrate their COVID-19 status through the Slovene “PCT” (as above).
Public sports events are allowed where fixed seating is provided and where every other seat can be left vacant. The use of surgical or FFP2 face mask is mandatory. People aged 12 and above will need to demonstrate their COVID-19 status through the Slovene “PCT” (as above).
All education establishments continue to deliver classes in person. Schools will conduct rapid antigen self-testing on all students three times a week
Indoor and outdoor sports facilities are open. People aged 12 and above will need to demonstrate their COVID-19 status through the Slovene “PCT” (as above).
Visits to care homes and hospitals are by appointment only. You should contact the care home or hospital you wish to visit for full details of visiting options, noting that these options are subject to short notice change.
All services within Slovenian public administration offices are by appointment only
You should not attend hospitals or dental clinics for non-essential reasons, unless you have an appointment.
Libraries, museums and galleries are open. Indoor culture facilities are allowed to operate up to a limited capacity, which will be displayed at the entrance. The use of surgical or FFP2 face mask is mandatory. People aged 12 and above will need to demonstrate their COVID-19 status through the Slovene “PCT” (as above).
Social gatherings are not permitted, except between members of the same household or immediate family members.
Religious gatherings are allowed where a distance of 1.5 metres can be observed between people. The use of surgical or FFP2 face mask is mandatory. People aged 12 and above will need to demonstrate their COVID-19 status through the Slovene “PCT” (as above).
Public cultural events in open public spaces are not allowed, but are permitted in enclosed public spaces with fixed seating, where every other seat can be left vacant. The use of surgical or FFP2 face mask is mandatory. People aged 12 and above will need to demonstrate their COVID-19 status through the Slovene “PCT” (as above).
The Slovene government provides English-language coronavirus guidance and updates.
Healthcare in Slovenia
If you are visiting Slovenia and think you have COVID-19 symptoms, you should remain at home and contact the COVID Hotline on +386 (0)80 1404. You should not leave your home until you have spoken to the authorities and received further instructions. For contact details for English speaking doctors, visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Slovenia.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Slovenia
Wherever possible British nationals should aim to be vaccinated in the country where they live. We will update this page when the Government of Slovenia announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Slovenian national vaccination programme started in December 2020 and is using the AstraZeneca, Pfizer-BioNTech, and Moderna vaccines. The use of Janssen (Johnson and Johnson) has been suspended. The Government of Slovenia has stated that British nationals resident in Slovenia are eligible for vaccination, including boosters. You should register your interest online via the zVEM service, and also notify your doctor in Slovenia. You will need your EMŠO (Identity card) number and your Slovene health insurance card. The vaccine registration facility is only available in Slovene, so you might need some assistance if you don’t speak Slovene.
Alternatively, you can go to one of the pop-up vaccination centres across the country (no appointment necessary) or view the current schedule (in Slovene).
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in Slovenia, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
If you receive your COVID-19 vaccination in Slovenia, you can get an EU Digital COVID Certificate from the national authorities. The Certificate proves that you have been vaccinated against COVID-19, received a negative test result, or recovered from COVID-19. It will help facilitate your travel within the EU and, in some countries, you can use it to demonstrate your COVID-19 status to businesses and other organisations. For further information visit the European Commission’s EU Digital COVID Certificate page.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
Further advice and information is available from the Slovene government in English and Slovenian).
You should follow the advice of the Slovene authorities. For emergency consular support, call the British Embassy on +386 1 200 3910.
