This page has information on travelling to Slovenia. Check what you must do to return to the UK.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport from the UK, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Slovenia set and enforce entry rules.
All travellers
If you are travelling to Slovenia indirectly, please refer to the Travel Advice for the countries through which you will be transiting.
If you are not resident in Slovenia, you should be aware that for stays longer than 90 days, you will be required to register as a Temporary Resident. Contact the Uprava Enota (the department that handles these applications) at +386 1 306 3034 or ue.ljubljana@gov.si. The department is open from Monday to Thursday from 8am-6pm and on Friday from 8am-2pm.
If you’re fully vaccinated
If you’re aged 12 and over and fully vaccinated against COVID-19 (see below for accepted proof of vaccination status), you can enter Slovenia without needing to test or quarantine. You must:
Complete a Digital Passenger Locator Form 24 hours before arrival to Slovenia if you are entering via an airport or a ferry terminal. The form is not required if you are entering overland at a border crossing. On completion of the form, you will receive a QR code which must be shown to the Border Police on entry to Slovenia. The Digital Passenger Locator Form can be found here
Meet the requirements below to prove your vaccination status
Proof of vaccination status
The Slovenian government accepts the following as proof of fully vaccinated status:
A 2nd dose of Pfizer/BioNtech
A 2nd dose of Moderna
A 2nd dose of AstraZeneca
A single dose of Janssen by Johnson & Johnson / Jansse-Cilag
A 2nd dose of Sputnik V
A 2nd dose of Coronavac from Sinovac Biotech
A 2nd dose of the COVID-19 vaccine produced by Sinopharm
A combination of two of the vaccines listed from 1-7 above
Any of the above, plus a booster dose of Moderna or Pfizer
At least 14 days must have passed since your second dose of the vaccine.
If you are 18 or over, and have not received a booster dose of Moderna or Pfizer, you will need to show proof that your second COVID-19 vaccination was received no more than 270 days previously (or in the case of a single dose Janssen vaccine, not more than 270 days have passed since that single dose).
Vaccination certificates issued after a booster dose of Moderna or Pfizer will be considered as proof of vaccination and are not subject to the 270-day limit.
If your second vaccination was more than 270 day previously and you do not have proof of a booster dose, or the vaccine you received is not one listed above, the Slovenian government may not recognise you as ‘fully vaccinated’. You will need to follow the entry rules for those who are not fully vaccinated.
Slovenia will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 recovery and vaccination record and proof of COVID-19 vaccination issued in the Crown Dependencies. Your final vaccine dose must have been administered at least 14 prior to travel. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
A European digital certificate in digital or paper form, accompanied by a QR code, containing details of the vaccination and/or booster is acceptable.
A digital certificate of a third country in digital or paper form, including a QR code and bearing the same information as the EU digital certificate outlined above and issued in English is acceptable.
More information on border crossings into Slovenia can be found here.
If you’re not fully vaccinated
If you’re not fully vaccinated and are aged 12 and over you must:
Complete a Digital Passenger Locator Form 24 hours before arrival to Slovenia if you are entering via an airport or a ferry terminal. The form is not required if you are entering overland at a border crossing. On completion of the form, you will receive a QR code which must be shown to the Border Police on entry to Slovenia. The Digital Passenger Locator Form can be found here
Show proof of a negative PCR test (taken no more than 48 hours before entry), or proof of a negative rapid antigen test – not a self-test (taken no more than 24 hours before entry) when entering from any country. See information on getting a test before entry.
PCR tests and Rapid Antigen Tests (not a rapid antigen self-test) conducted in the UK are accepted by the Slovenian authorities.
A European digital certificate in digital or paper form, accompanied by a QR code, containing details of a negative PCR, Rapid Antigen Test is acceptable.
A digital certificate of a third country in digital or paper form, including a QR code and bearing the same information as the EU digital certificate outlined above and issued in English is acceptable.
If you’ve had COVID-19 in the last 6 months
If you’re not fully vaccinated but have tested positive for COVID-19 in the last 6 months you can enter Slovenia. You must:
Complete a Digital Passenger Locator Form 24 hours before arrival to Slovenia if you are entering via an airport or a ferry terminal. It is not required if you are entering overland at a border crossing. On completion of the form, you will receive a QR code which must be shown to the Border Police on entry to Slovenia. The Digital Passenger Locator Form can be found here.
And show ONE of the following:
Proof of a positive PCR test (taken more than 10 days and less than 6 months ago, confirming that not more than 6 months have passed since the first symptoms). You will not need to take an additional COVID-19 test
A certificate of recovery and proof that within the 6 months from the positive result of a PCR test or onset of symptoms, you have been vaccinated with at least one dose of the vaccines outlined above
A certificate of recovery and proof that within the 6 months from the positive result of a PCR test or onset of symptoms, you have been vaccinated with at least one dose of the vaccines outlined above and a booster dose of moderna or Pfizer.
PCR tests, Rapid Antigen Tests (not a rapid antigen self-test) and certificates of illness, vaccination/boosters conducted in the UK are accepted by the Slovenian authorities.
A European digital certificate in digital or paper form, accompanied by a QR code, containing details of a negative PCR, Rapid Antigen Test recovery or vaccination certificate is acceptable.
A digital certificate of a third country in digital or paper form, including a QR code and bearing the same information as the EU digital certificate outlined above and issued in English is acceptable.
More information on border crossings into Slovenia can be found here.
Children and young people
Children aged 12 and over must follow the rules for fully vaccinated travellers or the rules for those not fully vaccinated to enter Slovenia.
Children aged 11 and under do not need proof of vaccination, recovery or a negative test, if accompanied by an adult who has either been fully vaccinated, or meets one of the requirements for travellers who are not fully vaccinated. If the accompanying adult has to quarantine, the child may be required to quarantine too.
All travellers, including those aged 11 and under, must complete a Digital Passenger Locator Form 24 hours before arrival to Slovenia if entering via an airport or a ferry terminal. The form is not required if entering overland at a border crossing. On completion of the form, the QR code must be shown to the Border Police on entry to Slovenia. The Digital Passenger Locator Form can be found here.
If you’re transiting through Slovenia
Transiting is when you pass through one country on the way to your final destination.
Transiting through Slovenia is permitted.
If you are not fully vaccinated or cannot meet the requirements for those who are not fully vaccinated, you will need to show proof that you will leave Slovenia in the shortest possible time, limited to a maximum of 12 hours. Overnight stays are not permitted.
If you declare that you are positive for COVID-19 or show obvious signs of infection of COVID-19 you may still be allowed to travel only if you can unequivocally prove that your only reason for entering is to transit Slovenia in your own vehicle, without stopping and that you plan to leave Slovenia in the shortest possible time, limited to a maximum of 12 hours.
You will not be allowed entry if are unable to leave Slovenia due to measures in place in neighbouring countries.
This exemption from the COVID 19 entry rules is not applicable to those who are resident in Slovenia.
More information on transiting Slovenia can be found here [Policija - Transit through Slovenia on way to another country - clarification].
If you are travelling to neighbouring countries you should check the travel advice for the latest information on entering those countries. See travel advice for Austria, Croatia, Hungary and Italy.
Internal checkpoints on the Schengen borders with Italy, Austria and Hungary have been removed.
Exemptions
Detailed information about exemptions to the COVID-19 entry rules can be found on the Slovenian government website.
HGV drivers
Cargo drivers can enter Slovenia without showing a negative COVID-19 test, proof of vaccination or proof of recovery and do not have to quarantine, so long as they leave Slovenia within 12 hours of entering Slovenia. On entry to Slovenia, you must present:
Either a Certificate for International Transport Workers from Annex 3 of the Communication from the Commission on the implementation of the Green Lanes under the Guidelines for border management measures to protect health and ensure the availability of goods and essential services (OJ C No. 96 of 24 March 2020, p. 1)
Or another appropriate document which shows you are posted by your employer
This exemption applies to cargo drivers and only during working hours (for work), no longer for drivers travelling to and from work.
Information on border crossings into Slovenia can be found here.
Quarantine requirements if you cannot meet the COVID-19 entry rules
If you cannot show you meet the entry rules for the fully vaccinated, or the rules for those who are not fully vaccinated, and you do not qualify for an exemption, you may be required to quarantine for 7 days. You should provide the details of where you will stay during your quarantine, and proof that your accommodation is guaranteed, if the place is not your home. You should note that tourist accommodation in Slovenia will require a certificate to show you are fully vaccinated, recovered, or have tested negative (in the last 72 hours for PCR tests or 48 hours for rapid antigen tests – not a rapid antigen self-test). If you cannot prove that you have a guaranteed place to undertake quarantine you might not be permitted to enter Slovenia.
During quarantine, you are required to stay in your accommodation and not socialise outside of your household. You can take short walks for exercise, but should maintain social distancing and not engage with people from outside your household. The local municipality can make arrangements for the delivery of essential supplies if friends or family cannot support you. All travellers will be given advice at the border regarding the steps they may need to take.
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
Check with your travel provider to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
If you are travelling to Slovenia for work, read the guidance on visas and permits as the rules have changed since 1 January 2021.
Passport validity
If you are planning to travel to an EU country (except Ireland), or Switzerland, Norway, Iceland, Liechtenstein, Andorra, Monaco, San Marino or Vatican City, you must meet the Schengen area rules.
Your passport must meet 2 requirements. It must be:
less than 10 years old on the day you enter (check the ‘date of issue’)
valid for at least 3 months after the day you plan to leave (check the ‘expiry date’)
We are asking the European Commission to clarify the 10-year rule. Their guidance for Schengen border guards may not be updated until the spring of 2022. Until then, for some Schengen countries your passport may need to be less than 10 years old during your whole visit, and the 3 months at the end of your visit may need to be within 10 years of your passport’s issue date.
Check both the issue date and the expiry date in your passport. If you renewed your passport early, extra months may have been added to its expiry date. This could affect the requirement for your passport to be less than 10 years old.
Contact your travel provider or embassy of the country you are visiting if you think that your passport does not meet both these requirements. Renew your passport if you need to.
Residents of Slovenia
If you are resident in Slovenia your passport should not be stamped. You should proactively show your proof of residence as well as your valid passport at Slovenian border control. For further information, see our Living in Slovenia guide.
Visas
The rules for travelling or working in European countries changed on 1 January 2021:
you can travel to countries in the Schengen area for up to 90 days in any 180-day period without a visa. This applies if you travel as a tourist, to visit family or friends, to attend business meetings, cultural or sports events, or for short-term studies or training
if you are travelling to Slovenia and other Schengen countries without a visa, make sure your whole visit is within the 90-day limit. Visits to Schengen countries within the previous 180 days before you travel count towards your 90 days
to stay longer, to work or study, for business travel or for other reasons, you will need to meet the Slovenian government’s entry requirements. Check with the Slovene Embassy what type of visa and/or work permit, you may need
if you stay in Slovenia with a residence permit or long-stay visa, this does not count to-wards your 90-day visa-free limit
Any time you spent in Slovenia or other Schengen countries before 1 January 2021 does not count towards your 90-day visa-free limit.
Check your passport is stamped if you enter or exit the Schengen area through Slovenia as a visitor. Border guards will use passport stamps to check you’re complying with the 90-day visa-free limit for short stays in the Schengen area. If relevant entry or exit stamps are not in your passport, border guards will presume that you have overstayed your visa-free limit.
You can show evidence of when and where you entered or exited the Schengen area, and ask the border guards to add this date and location in your passport. Examples of acceptable evidence include boarding passes and tickets.
You may also need to:
queue in separate lanes from EU, EEA and Swiss citizens
show a return or onward ticket
show you have enough money for your stay
show proof of accommodation for your stay, for example, a hotel booking confirmation, proof of address if visiting your own property (e.g. second home), or an invitation from your host or proof of their address if staying with a third party, friends or family
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are accepted for entry, airside transit and exit from Slovenia.
Returning to the UK
Check what you must do to return to the UK.
