

Before you travel check that:
your destination can provide the healthcare you may need
you have appropriate travel insurance for local treatment or unexpected medical evacuation
This is particularly important if you have a health condition or are pregnant.
Emergency medical number
Dial 112 and ask for an ambulance.
Contact your insurance or medical assistance company quickly if you’re referred to a medical facility for treatment.
Vaccine recommendations and health risks
At least 8 weeks before your trip:  
check the latest vaccine recommendations for Slovenia
see where to get vaccines and whether you have to pay on the NHS travel vaccinations page
See what health risks you’ll face in Slovenia, including how to protect yourself against tick bites and tick-borne encephalitis.   
Altitude sickness is a risk in parts of Slovenia. Read more about altitude sickness on TravelHealthPro.
Medication
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or bought in the UK can be different in other countries.
Read best practice when travelling with medicines on TravelHealthPro.
Healthcare in Slovenia
FCDO has a list of medical providers in Slovenia where some staff will speak English.
Health insurance cards
To get medically necessary state healthcare in Slovenia, you need a Global Health Insurance Card (GHIC) or a European Health Insurance Card (EHIC).   
The NHS’s getting healthcare abroad webpage has details about:  
how to apply for a GHIC
how to get temporary cover if you lose your card or it does not arrive in time
who qualifies for a new EHIC instead of a GHIC
what treatment counts as medically necessary
A GHIC or EHIC is not an alternative to travel insurance. You may have costs your GHIC or EHIC does not cover, including:  
changes to travel and accommodation bookings
additional standard costs for treatment
medical repatriation to the UK
treatment that is ruled non-urgent
private healthcare
private clinics
There is also guidance on healthcare if you’re living in Slovenia.
Travel and mental health
Read FCDO guidance on travel and mental health. There is also mental health guidance on TravelHealthPro.
