Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

If you’re visiting Slovenia, you’re strongly advised to return to the UK as soon as possible. Contact your travel operator to make arrangements to do so as soon as possible.
Flights
Scheduled flights to and from Slovenia are suspended until further notice. There are currently no commercial air routes available from Slovenia, to the UK (direct or indirect).
However there are indirect commercial routes still available from Vienna and Zagreb, to the UK. You should check details with commercial operators.Taxi companies are able to cross the border with Austria, provided that you can prove that you are departing on a flight from Vienna on the same day. Stopping is not permitted in Austria, apart from drop-off at Vienna International Airport. Please check Austria travel advice for further details.
It is possible to travel to Zagreb Airport from Slovenia in order to take a flight. However, it is likely that you will need to change taxis at the border, as well as show evidence of a flight departing on the same day. If you do not have this evidence, you are likely to be required to undertake a 14-day isolation period on entering Croatia. Please check Croatia travel advice for further details.
Travel via neighbouring countries
Neighbouring countries have introduced restrictions on entry from Slovenia. Check travel advice for any country that you will transit on your journey. Be aware that all requirements can be subject to short notice change or alteration.
Passenger trains connections between Slovenia and Austria have been suspended.
Help and support
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Your journey home
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Further information
If you need additional advice or assistance returning to the UK from Slovenia, you should contact the British Embassy at info@british-embassy.si.
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
