

Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Slovenia
Terrorist attacks in Slovenia cannot be ruled out.
Laws and cultural differences
Personal ID
Always carry a copy of your passport as a form of ID. You can get a 50 to 200 euro fine if the police ask you for ID and you cannot show it.
Illegal drugs
Illegal drugs, including cannabis, carry severe penalties. You should expect a long jail sentence and heavy fines for possessing, using or smuggling illegal drugs, including when transiting through the airport.
Airports in Slovenia have excellent technology and security for detecting illegal items. This is also used to scan the baggage of transiting passengers.
Road crossing fines
There are heavy fines for not using designated road crossing points (‘jaywalking’). If you cannot pay an on-the-spot fine, the police or authorities can confiscate your documents or assets until you pay.
Tour guides
Tour guides must display a tour guide card to show they are registered with the Slovenian authorities.
Emergency siren tests
The Slovenian authorities test a nationwide emergency siren on the first Saturday of every month at 12pm. If you hear the siren at another time, follow instructions from the authorities.
Outdoor activities and adventure tourism
Skiing and mountaineering
If you are planning a skiing or mountaineering holiday, see Policija - Helpful Advice to all Hikers, Trekkers and Mountaineers and National Meteorological Service of Slovenia  before you travel. Off-piste skiing is highly dangerous as there is a risk of avalanches in some areas. See Preparing for winter sports abroad.
Hiking
If you plan to hike in Slovenia:
take particular care if you’re in an area where bears have been sighted. Visitors in mountain areas occasionally encounter bears and wolves
consider the level of difficulty and distance
plan for the weakest member of your group
use a printed or digital map with marked paths and their descriptions
tell family or friends of your plans
check whether mountain cabins are open
do not use hiking trails that have been closed or take shortcuts
Bears are present in wooded areas throughout Slovenia, including near cities. In 2025 a bear attacked a person walking their dog in Skofljica, 6 miles southeast of Ljubljana.
Some demanding mountain trails can include sections of via ferrata (steel wires and metal rungs), which need a climbing harness and helmet.
For mountain rescue, call 112. 
Transport risks
Road travel
If you are planning to drive in Slovenia, see information on driving abroad and check the rules of the road in the RAC’s Slovenia guide. The guide lists driving regulations and other legal requirements you need to be aware of, such as:
always driving with headlights on
carrying a warning triangle, reflective jacket and first aid kit
on-the-spot fines for offences including speeding, drink-driving and using a mobile phone without a wireless headset
You can drive in Slovenia on your UK driving licence.
Hire car companies often have stricter requirements for their customers, such as a higher minimum age. 
If you live in Slovenia, check the driving requirements for residents.
Check if you need a UK sticker to drive your car outside the UK.
Drink-driving is a serious offence in Slovenia. The blood alcohol limit for experienced drivers is 0.05% (in England it is 0.08%). If you are under 21 or have had your licence less than 2 years, it is illegal to have any alcohol in your system. You could get a fine and possible imprisonment if you’re caught over the limit.
See Slovenia traffic and border crossing reports.
Motorway tolls
If you drive on Slovenian motorways, you must buy an ‘e-vignette’ for electronic tolls. You can buy weekly, monthly or yearly e-vignettes at:
petrol stations
post offices
DARS (the Slovenian Motorway Company) offices in Slovenia and in neighbouring countries near the border
You can also buy e-vignettes from DARS online before or during your stay in Slovenia. Only use the official DARS website to buy these online.
If your vehicle weighs more than 3.5 tonnes, you must register it under the DarsGo system to use Slovenia’s motorways and expressways. Collect a DarsGo unit from a DarsGo service point when you enter Slovenia for the first time.
Driving in winter
You must use winter equipment from 15 November until 15 March and whenever there are winter weather conditions (for example, snowfall, blizzards or black ice).
Private cars and vehicles up to 3.5 tonnes must have winter tyres on all 4 wheels, or summer tyres on all 4 wheels and snow chains in the car boot. The minimum tyre tread depth is 3mm.
Vehicles over 3.5 tonnes must have winter tyres on the driving wheels or summer tyres on all 4 wheels and snow chains in the boot.
You can get a fine of 125 euros for not having this equipment, or 417 euros if you also cause road delays.
Extreme weather and natural disasters
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards. 
See weather forecasts and warnings in English.
Seasonal storms
All parts of Slovenia can experience sudden, extreme storms. There can be strong winds and rain, snowfall, lightning and powerful hailstorms. Storms can cause landslides and road closures. Check weather and traffic reports before you travel. If you’re caught in a storm, find shelter until the storm passes and follow local advice.
Flooding
Flash floods can be dangerous, happen with little warning and disrupt transport and other networks. Keep a close eye on weather forecasts and follow the advice of local authorities.
Wildfires
During especially hot and dry periods there is a risk of wildfires. It’s illegal to do anything that starts a fire that poses a danger to human life or could cause significant damage. 
Earthquakes
Western Slovenia is on an earthquake fault line and is subject to occasional tremors. The US Federal Emergency Management Agency website has advice about what to do before, during and after an earthquake.
