This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Slovenia as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Slovenia to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Slovenia
For information on entering Slovenia, see Entry requirements
The Slovene government have declared that the coronavirus epidemic in Slovenia is over and have announced an easing of the measures that were put in place to restrict the spread of the virus. The requirement to follow social distancing measures remains in place. Further measures may follow at short notice.
Most services (including retail services) are permitted to re-open, provided that health and safety guidance can be implemented. However there are some exceptions, including nightclubs.
Protective masks (or other material covering the nose and mouth) must be worn in indoor public areas where social distancing is not possible(including shops) and on public transport.
Restaurants and bars are permitted to open, if they are able to serve customers whilst observing social distancing requirements.
From 11 May, public transport (buses and trains) will gradually resume service. You are required to wear a protective mask, sanitise your hands with the supplied hand cleaner and maintain a safety distance of at least 1.5m.
Wherever possible, tickets should be bought in advance (online, ticket machines and at sales counters). Taxi services continue to be available.
Gatherings of up to 200 people are permitted, where health and safety guidance can be implemented. All other gatherings, including those prohibited by other decrees remain banned.
The Slovene government provides English-language coronavirus guidance and updates.
Health
Call Slovenia’s 112 emergency telephone number if you think you have symptoms of coronavirus. An information hotline can also be reached in Slovenia on 080 1404. English speaking operators are available.
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Slovenia.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Slovenia, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
Further advice and information is available from the Slovene government in English and Slovenian).
You should follow the advice of the Slovene authorities. For emergency consular support, call the British Embassy on +386 1 200 3910.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
