Coronavirus: stay up to date
This page will be updated with country-specific information for travellers to Slovenia. Sign up for email alerts.
See our coronavirus travel advice for guidance on travel during the COVID-19 pandemic, including on cruise ship travel.
The Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advise against all but essential travel to Slovenia, due to travel restrictions implemented by the Slovene government related to the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. British nationals in Slovenia should follow the advice of the Slovene authorities. See Health
The Slovene government has announced the cancellation of air traffic from 23.59 on 16 March, including passenger flights to and from the UK.
Since 13 March several neighbouring countries have imposed restrictions on people entering from Slovenia, which may impact your travel in the region. Please consult travel advice for any countries which you may be transiting through. Border control checks for visitors entering Slovenia from Italy, introduced on 11 March, remain in place. The border with Austria remains open to all UK nationals; however you should note that from 23:59 on 16 March there will be no direct air links between Austria and the UK.
Keep up to date with information from your tour operator, transport or accommodation provider on the impact on any existing travel plans. You should also check with your airline or travel company for the latest information.
On 15 March the Slovene government introduced restrictions on “non-essential services”, effective from midnight. The vast majority of retail and services businesses have ceased to operate, including accommodation, bars, restaurants, and cultural institutions. Grocery stores, pharmacies, banks, post offices, petrol stations, news stands and stores selling agricultural products will remain open. Public transport has stopped operating, although some taxi services will continue to be available. Additionally all schools are closed from 16 March until further notice. Further measures may follow.
The Slovene government provides English-language coronavirus guidance and updates. Please call Slovenia’s 112 emergency telephone number if you feel that you have symptoms of coronavirus. An information hotline can also be reached in Slovenia on 080 1404.
The rules on travel to EU countries will stay the same until 31 December 2020. This page will be updated with country-specific information for travellers to Slovenia as things change. Sign up for email alerts and view the latest updates for UK nationals travelling to and living in Europe.
Around 160,000 British nationals visit Slovenia every year. Most visits are trouble free.
If you’re living in or moving to Slovenia, read the Living in Slovenia guide in addition to this travel advice.
Immigration controls may temporarily be in place at some road and rail border crossing points with Austria and Hungary. Full immigration controls are in place at Slovenia’s border with Croatia. You must carry your passport with you at all times. You should monitor local media and check with your transport provider, the Slovenian Automobile Association (AMZS) or Slovenian Railways websites for updates.
All foreign nationals visiting Slovenia must register with the police within 3 days of arrival or risk paying a fine. Hotels and accommodation providers will usually do this as part of the check in procedures. See Local laws and customs
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Slovenia, attacks can’t be ruled out. See Terrorism
To drive on Slovenian motorways, you must buy and display a ‘vignette’. Vehicles over 3.5 tonnes must register for an electronic tolling system. Vehicles must be fitted with winter equipment from 15 November to 15 March. See Road travel
Seek advice on weather and safety conditions before travelling into the mountains. Off-piste skiing is highly dangerous due to the risk of avalanches. See Skiing/mountaineering
You should take out comprehensive travel and medical insurance before you travel. For information on the European Health Insurance Card, see Health.
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.
The Overseas Business Risk service offers information and advice for British companies operating overseas on how to manage political, economic, and business security-related risks.
