Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Ukraine on the TravelHealthPro website.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
Commercial flights are operating to and from Ukraine on a limited number of routes. Check with your travel company for the latest information.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Ukraine.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements. You should contact local authorities for information on testing facilities (available in Ukrainian only).
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Ukraine
Domestic flights are operating, although some carriers are operating a reduced schedule. Public transport in cities and bus and train travel between regions are also operating on a reduced scale. From 21 October, you will need a vaccine certificate or negative PCR or express-test taken within 72 hours of travel, if travelling inter-city (by train, bus or plane) to or from a “yellow”, “orange” or “red” zone.
Quarantine measures
Coronavirus measures are in place until 31 December 2021, but may be extended further. Ukraine is operating a colour-coded adaptive quarantine system on a regional (oblasts and Kyiv city) basis. Some oblasts and cities have imposed additional measures beyond their official “zone” and these measures may be imposed, and change, at short notice. You should check which restrictions apply to the places you intend to visit, and be ready to prove your vaccination status.
In all zones, the following rules apply:
you must carry ID with you at all times
when in public buildings (including restaurants, hotels and shops) you must maintain a minimum distance of 1.5 m.
when in public buildings, and while travelling on public transport and in taxis, you must wear a protective mask covering your nose and mouth
Failure to comply with restrictions may result in a fine or, in more serious cases, a prison sentence. Before taking public transport, you should consider whether you will be able to maintain social distancing.
In regions classified as “green” zones, there are minimal restrictions beyond mask-wearing and distancing.
In “yellow” and “orange” zones, there are size limits imposed on outdoor mass events, and capacity limits for indoor hospitality, entertainment, cultural, fitness, retail and educational establishments. These restrictions can be waived if 80% of staff are vaccinated.
In “red” zones, the following conditions apply. There are exemptions if organisations can demonstrate that 100% of staff / customers / participants are vaccinated or have recent negative COVID-19 test results:
the hospitality sector (except for takeaway or delivery), entertainment and cultural facilities, shopping malls, non-essential retail, gyms, fitness centres and swimming pools must close
public events are prohibited
supermarkets and other grocery stores, pharmacies, veterinary supplies shops, banks and petrol stations can open
public transport can still operate
Accommodation
Hotel accommodation remains open under the present quarantine rules, but hostels should be closed in yellow, orange or red zones. In red zones, hotels have further restrictions placed on them, and their restaurant facilities are likely to be closed. When staying in a hotel, you must adhere to the overall rules regarding masks and minimum distancing. If possible, check in online in advance to avoid check-in queues at the hotel.
Further information can be found at Visit Ukraine.
Public places and services
In green, yellow and orange zones, the majority of services should be open, including shops, restaurants, cafes, religious establishments, beauty salons and hairdressers, museums, libraries, gyms, fitness centres, swimming pools, hardware stores, cobblers, dentists, auditors, lawyers and notaries (providing appropriate hygiene and distancing measures are in place). The number of visitors to shopping centres, restaurants and sports facilities should be limited.
In red zones, only supermarkets and other grocery stores, pharmacies, veterinary supplies shops, banks and petrol stations can open.
Parks and public outdoor spaces are open.
Ukraine will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 recovery and vaccination record. If you are travelling with a printed PDF proof of vaccination status, it must date from 1 November to ensure that the certificate can be scanned successfully, if domestic certification is required. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
Visas
The State Migration Service has published advice that there will be no penalties for foreigners who were staying in Ukraine legally when restrictions on leaving the country were introduced and who have not been able to leave, to apply to extend the period of their stay and/or to exchange their resident permits. This measure is limited to the period in which national quarantine measures are in force.
Where the restrictions on travel and availability of government services mean that foreigners stay in Ukraine beyond the period permitted by their visa-free limit or visa validity, or that they are unable to extend residence permits, there will be no penalties imposed. However, anyone who has overstayed their 90 day visa-free regime during quarantine will not be able to return to Ukraine for 90 days after leaving the country. See Entry requirements
Healthcare in Ukraine
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
If you have COVID-19 symptoms, such as a dry cough, respiratory difficulties, and a high temperature, you should:
if you have insurance or a private medical provider in Ukraine, seek assistance from them in the first instance
if you do not have insurance or your symptoms are more severe, call an ambulance on 103. Please note that the ambulance service may not have English-speaking operators available. In this case, please enlist the help of a Ukrainian or Russian-speaking friend, family member, hotel worker etc to help you call the ambulance
In both cases, you are likely to be advised to self-isolate, or be taken to a hospital where you will be tested for coronavirus. In case of a positive diagnosis, please inform the British Embassy Kyiv by calling +380 44 490 3660 or by completing this web contact form, or ask a friend or relative to contact us on your behalf.
If taken to hospital, you are likely to be tested for coronavirus. The choice of hospital will depend on your location and the availability of hospitals and/or beds.
If you come into contact with someone who is confirmed to have COVID-19, or has COVID-19 symptoms, you must self-isolate for 14 days. Contact your insurer or private medical provider, or call an ambulance on 103, should you develop symptoms yourself. Failure to comply with these restrictions may result in a fine or, in more serious cases, a prison sentence.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Ukraine.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Ukraine
We will update this page when the Government of Ukraine announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
Ukraine’s national vaccination programme started in February 2021 and is using the AstraZeneca, Coronavac, Moderna and Pfizer vaccines. The Government of Ukraine has stated that British nationals resident in Ukraine are eligible for vaccination if they choose to join the programme. Further information on the vaccination programme is available on the Government of Ukraine’s dedicated vaccination website.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in Ukraine, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
For further information on visiting Ukraine during the quarantine period, please see the Visit Ukraine webpage.
