The information on this page covers the most common types of travel and reflects the UK government’s understanding of the rules currently in place. Unless otherwise stated, this information is for travellers using a full ‘British Citizen’ passport.
The authorities in the country or territory you’re travelling to are responsible for setting and enforcing the rules for entry. If you’re unclear about any aspect of the entry requirements, or you need further reassurance, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
You should also consider checking with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Restrictions in response to coronavirus
Entry and borders
In response to rising COVID-19 case numbers in Ukraine, the Ukrainian border will be temporarily closed to foreign nationals seeking to enter from until 28 September.
Certain categories of foreign national are exempt from the border closure. These include:
Those who have a permanent and temporary residence permit for Ukraine, and have proof of permission to reside.
Recognised refugees or other persons requiring additional protection
Diplomats, consuls and representatives of international organisations, and their families
Military instructors from NATO countries
People in this group do not require proof of health insurance which covers Covid-19 observation and treatment.
Further categories, including the spouses, children, parents and grandparents of Ukrainian citizens, those studying at higher education institutions in Ukraine, certain technical specialists, air, train and truck crew and sportspeople, may also be exempt. The full revised list of exempt categories has been published on the Visit Ukraine website - click “more detailed” on the “For citizens of green zone countries”. The right of foreigners to enter Ukraine for 48-hour transit has been withdrawn.
Upon arrival, all foreign nationals in these categories will be required to provide proof of health insurance that covers COVID-19 observation and treatment for the duration of their stay. Insurance must be purchased from a company registered in Ukraine or a foreign company that has a representative office or an insurance partner in Ukraine. The Ukrainian Government has released a revised list of documents (only in Ukrainian, summarised in English below) that they will accept as sufficient proof of qualifying for an exemption:
Spouses of Ukrainian citizens: their marriage certificate
Parents, grandparents or children of Ukrainian citizens: a relevant birth certificate
Students at Ukrainian higher education institutions: an invitation from the Ministry of Education of Ukraine, residence permit for Ukraine, or type D visa
Those carrying out military service: documents which confirm military service in the Ukrainian Armed Forces
Those who live in Ukraine: permanent or temporary residence permit
Refugees or persons requiring additional protection: document confirming refugee status, work permit for foreigners or stateless persons
Diplomats, consular staff or representatives of international missions and their families: documents which prove their status – accreditation card or attestation
Heads of official delegations from foreign states or international organisations, and their entourages: documents which confirm the invitation from President of Ukraine, Verkhovna Rada (parliament) of Ukraine; Cabinet of Ministers, Office of the President of Ukraine or Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
Drivers or crew members for trucks, buses, aeroplanes, ferries or trains: documents which confirm this status
Military instructors from NATO or partner countries: documents which prove participation in Ukrainian Armed Forces training or an invitation from the Ministry of Defence
Cultural figures invited to Ukraine and their entourage: invitation from a cultural institution, documents which confirm the status of their assistants
Sportspeople taking part in official competitions: documents which prove the participation in an officially sanctioned event and an invitation from the Ministry of Youth and Sport, plus documents which prove the status of support team members.
Technical specialists: an invitation from a Ukrainian company
People transporting stem cells for transplantation: confirmatory documents from the Ministry of Health or a specific Ukrainian health institution
People undergoing medical treatment in Ukraine: confirmatory documents from the Ukrainian medical institution providing the treatment
The final decision on a person’s eligibility to enter Ukraine rests with the Ukrainian State Border Service. The entry requirement policies of foreign governments are imposed and enforced at their discretion.
Transiting Ukraine
Foreign nationals transiting Ukraine are no longer exempt from the temporary ban on entering Ukraine. If you qualify for another exemption and are permitted to enter Ukraine, you are required to provide proof of health insurance that covers COVID-19 observation and treatment for the duration of their stay. Insurance must be purchased from a company registered in Ukraine or a foreign company that has a representative office or an insurance partner in Ukraine.
Quarantine requirements
The Ukrainian government has not outlined any changes to the quarantine requirements in addition to the closure of the border to most categories of foreigner. Therefore, if you are among the groups permitted to enter Ukraine, the country from which you are travelling will dictate whether or not you are required to self-isolate for 14 days upon arrival in Ukraine.
Travellers arriving from countries in what the Ukrainian authorities call the “green zone”, are not required to undergo self-isolation or observation on arrival.
Travellers arriving from countries in what the Ukrainian authorities call the “red zone”, are required to undergo 14 days’ self-isolation proven by the “Dii Vdoma” tracking app, or quarantine in a Government-approved facility for 14 days upon arrival.
Mandatory self-isolation or quarantine is not necessary if a traveller undergoes a PCR test and receives a negative result no more than 48 hours in advance of his/her arrival in Ukraine, or once in Ukraine. Further information about taking the tests in Ukraine and terminating self-isolation in case of a negative result can be found via the ‘more detailed’ link of the ‘for citizens of “red zone” countries’ box on the Ukrainian authorities’ Visit Ukraine webpage.
Citizens of “red” countries who can prove that they have spent the last 14 days in “green” countries are treated as arriving from the “green zone”, and will not be required to isolate. Individuals whose travel originated in a “green” country but who have visited a “red” country prior to arriving to Ukraine (for example, those travelling by car transiting “red” countries) may be required to self-isolate or quarantine for 14 days upon arrival. Mandatory self-isolation or quarantine is no longer necessary if a traveller undergoes a PCR test and receives a negative result no more than 48 hours in advance of his/her arrival in Ukraine, or once in Ukraine.
Currently, the UK falls into the “green zone”. Check the list of red and green zone countries by clicking the “more detailed” links in the “for citizens of green/red zones” information boxes. The red and green zone lists are updated frequently and can change quickly in response to the epidemic – you should check the lists regularly.
Children under the age of 12, drivers and crew members of cargo vehicles, buses, train, locomotive, aircraft, sea and river vessels are also not required to undergo self-isolation or quarantine, provided they have not been in contact with a person with COVID-19.
Self-isolation on entry to Ukraine can be completed at your chosen address using the “Dii Vdoma” mobile app. You need to have a Ukrainian mobile phone number with the SIM card activated before you arrive in the country, though the SIM does not need to be in your phone on arrival. When using the app, you must respond promptly to notifications sent to your mobile (in Ukrainian).
More information about the app is available on the Cabinet of Ministers website or the Visit Ukraine webpage. Make sure that you understand the regular reporting requirements before taking up this option. People who do not register with the Dii Vdoma app, or who do not abide by its terms, are required to complete quarantine at a government-approved observation centre.
Travellers arriving in Ukraine or crossing the administrative points from non-government-controlled parts of Donetsk and Luhansk oblasts and Crimea will be subject to health monitoring on arrival. You should comply with any additional screening measures put in place by the authorities.
Further information about visiting Ukraine during the quarantine period can be found at the Ukrainian authorities’ Visit Ukraine webpage.
Regular entry requirements
Visas
British Citizen passport holders can enter Ukraine without a visa for visits of up to 90 days within a 180 day period. Ukraine has confirmed that this policy will continue to apply to British citizens until 30 January 2021. This page will be updated as soon as further information on visa rules from 31 January 2021 onwards is available.
Although there are no penalties for British citizens overstaying under the visa-free regime during quarantine (providing they leave within 30 days of quarantine ending), anyone who has overstayed will not be able to return to Ukraine for 90 days after leaving the country.
If you’re planning to stay in Ukraine for longer than 90 days in a 180 day period, you need to get a visa. For more advice on entry requirements contact the Ukrainian Embassy in London or Consulate General in Edinburgh.
You don’t need to complete an immigration card. Immigration officials may require you to scan your fingerprints as part of biometric data collection at border crossing points. For more details, visit the website of the State Border Guard Service of Ukraine
Proof of financial means
You may be asked to provide evidence that you have sufficient funds to support you during your stay. The Ukrainian authorities accept the following as a proof of sufficient funds: cash, bank cards along with bank statements, accommodation bookings, tourist vouchers, a letter from the person or company you’re visiting stating that they will cover your expenses, a return ticket or onward travel ticket. You can find more information on the websites of the Ukrainian Embassy in the UK and State Border Service of Ukraine.
Passport validity
If you’re travelling without a visa, your passport should be valid for the proposed duration of your stay. No additional period of validity beyond this is required.
If you’re applying for a visa, your passport may need to have an additional period of validity. Check with the Ukrainian Embassy in London for further details.
Borders
It’s illegal under Ukrainian law to enter internationally recognised Ukrainian territory through a border point that isn’t currently controlled by the Ukrainian authorities. If you do so, you risk arrest or a fine, and you may be subject to a travel ban.
International border crossings that aren’t currently under the control of the Ukrainian authorities include all land border crossings into Donetsk oblast, many of the land border crossings into Luhansk oblast, all air and sea ports in Crimea and the Kerch Bridge road and rail crossing into Crimea.
If you intend to visit any of the areas not controlled by the Ukrainian authorities, you should apply to the State Migration Service of Ukraine for a special entry permit. Information on border crossing procedure, entry/exit regulations and checkpoints are provided at the State Border Guard Service of Ukraine website.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents are accepted for entry, airside transit and exit from Ukraine.
Customs regulations
You can find general information about importing and exporting items on the website of the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine (in Ukrainian).
There are strict customs regulations governing the export from Ukraine of antiques and items of historical interest. If in doubt seek prior permission from the customs authorities: telephone: (+38 044) 454 16 13, e-mail: idd@sfs.gov.ua
Bringing your car to Ukraine
For information about driving rules in Ukraine, see Road travel
Non-residents are allowed to bring a vehicle for personal use into Ukraine for up to one year. There’s no need to complete a customs declaration form. The vehicle can only be used in Ukraine by the person that brought it into the country. The vehicle can’t be used for commercial purposes, dismantled, sold or rented to other people. If you want to do any of these things, you’ll need register the vehicle in Ukraine and pay the appropriate customs tax.
You must take the vehicle out of Ukraine within the required timeframe, or place it into the customs regime of the State.
If your vehicle breaks down and can’t be fixed, you should inform the Customs Service and provide them with evidence that it can’t be repaired. You may then dispose of the vehicle through the official channels of the Customs Service.
If you bring a private vehicle in Ukraine with the intention of transiting the country, you may be asked to complete a customs declaration form and pay a deposit.
You can find more information on bringing your car to Ukraine on the State Fiscal Service’s website (in Ukrainian).
