!
Warning
FCDO advises against all travel to Ukraine.

The Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) cannot provide tailored advice for individual trips. Read this travel advice and carry out your own research before deciding whether to travel.
Emergency services in Ukraine
Ambulance: 103
Fire: 101
Police: 102
Contact your travel provider and insurer
Contact your travel provider and your insurer if you are involved in a serious incident or emergency abroad. They will tell you if they can help and what you need to do.
Refunds and changes to travel
For refunds or changes to travel, contact your travel provider. You may also be able to make a claim through insurance. However, insurers usually require you to talk to your travel provider first.
Find out more about changing or cancelling travel plans, including:
where to get advice if you are in a dispute with a provider
how to access previous versions of travel advice to support a claim
Support from FCDO
FCDO has guidance on staying safe and what to do if you need help or support abroad, including:
finding English-speaking lawyers, funeral directors and translators and interpreters in Ukraine
dealing with a death in Ukraine
being arrested or imprisoned in Ukraine
getting help if you’re a victim of crime
what to do if you’re in hospital
if you’re affected by a crisis, such as a terrorist attack
Contacting FCDO
Follow and contact FCDO travel on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram, You can also sign up to get email notifications when this travel advice is updated.
You can also contact FCDO online.
Help abroad in an emergency
If you are in Ukraine and you need emergency help from the UK government, call our 24-hour helpline and select the option for ‘consular services for British nationals’:
For a domestic call from Ukraine, call +380 (0)44 490 3660
For an international call to the UK call +44 (0)20 7008 5000
The British Embassy is operating with a limited capacity in Kyiv. We cannot provide any in-person consular assistance.
Full consular services are available at British embassies in neighbouring countries.
Assisted departure or evacuation
FCDO cannot facilitate your departure from Ukraine or evacuation. If you are in Ukraine against FCDO advice, or require support to leave Ukraine, take advice from a private security company and take appropriate security measures.
FCDO cannot endorse or recommend any private security companies. Research whether a service provider will be suitable for your requirements and meets code of conduct and safety standards. The Security in Complex Environments Group (SCEG) has several companies listed on their website. These companies have accredited certification for international standards.
FCDO has not completed due diligence checks on these companies. FCDO does not accept any liability arising to any person for any loss or damage suffered through using these service providers or this information. FCDO is not able to provide financial assistance for employing private security or medical evacuation companies.
FCDO in London
You can call FCDO in London if you need urgent help because something has happened to a friend or relative abroad.
Telephone: 020 7008 5000 (24 hours)
Find out about call charges
