At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Coronavirus
There is an ongoing outbreak of coronavirus (COVID-19). The virus originated in China, but cases have been confirmed in other countries, including Ukraine.
The Ukrainian authorities have introduced a number of precautionary measures. Travellers arriving in Ukraine or crossing the administrative points from non-government controlled parts of Donetsk and Luhansk oblasts and Crimea will be subject to health monitoring on arrival. You should comply with any additional screening measures put in place by the authorities.
With effect from 15 March, the Ukrainian authorities have announced that foreign citizens who are not residents of Ukraine will not be allowed to enter the country. Those already in Ukraine will be able to leave. No flights will operate to Ukraine for two weeks from 17 March and there are a very limited number of flights departing.
If you are in Ukraine and wish to leave you should make arrangements to do so. Some third countries are also restricting entry to foreigners or closing airports. You should also check our Travel Advice for other countries on your route, and with your airline.
The Government of Ukraine has announced several restrictive measures that come into effect from 12 March. Schools and universities have been closed. Since 17 March, many of Ukraine’s land borders are closed. All public (cultural, entertainment, sports, social, religious and other) gatherings involving more than 10 people are prohibited. Restaurants, cafes, entertainment centres, fitness centres, and cultural establishments are closed, as are shops except supermarkets, pharmacies, banks and petrol stations. From 17 March till 3 April, metro networks are closed. From 18 March, intercity and interregional trains and buses, domestic flights are suspended. Local buses and trams continue to operate but may only carry 10 passengers at a time. Kyiv City Council requires passengers on public transport to wear a face mask. Please see more information on restrictions on the Government of Ukraine website. Failure to comply with these restrictions may result in a fine or, in more serious cases, a prison sentence.
You can find more information about situation in Ukraine on the website of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine: in English and Ukrainian, or by calling the Cabinet of Ministers COVID19 hotline on +38 (0)800 505 201.
Keep up to date with information from your tour operator, transport or accommodation provider on the impact on any existing travel plans.
If you need further information about entry requirements, contact the local immigration authorities or the nearest Ukrainian consulate. You should also check with your airline or travel company for the latest information.
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
Medical treatment
There is no reciprocal health care agreement between the UK and Ukraine. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation.
State medical facilities in Ukraine are generally poor. Private clinics and hospitals offer a better standard of care, though these do not always meet western standards and practices. If you are involved in an accident or taken ill, it is likely that you will be taken to a state hospital unless you can show that you have comprehensive medical insurance cover.
English isn’t widely spoken and British patients may face communication difficulties.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 103 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
