Penalties for being caught in possession of drugs are severe.
Smoking and drinking alcoholic drinks in public places is officially banned. Public places include transport, bus stops, underground crossings, cultural, sports and governmental establishments, playgrounds and parks.
Carry your passport at all times for ID purposes. Police may carry out passport checks on foreign nationals. Police officers should introduce themselves (name, post, rank, reason for ID check) and present a document verifying their position. Your original passport is required since no other document can provide information on your legal status in Ukraine. If you’re detained because you have been unable to present your passport, you should ask for an official report.
Ukrainian officials generally only speak Ukrainian and Russian.
Don’t take photographs near government or military establishments.
Although homosexuality is not prohibited by law, public attitudes are less tolerant than in the UK and public displays of affection may attract negative attention. There’s no provision under Ukrainian legislation guaranteeing freedom from discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation.
See our information and advice page for the LGBT+ community before you travel.
Surrogacy
The FCDO recognises the difficult position of people with surrogacy arrangements in Ukraine.
If you are a British national with current surrogacy arrangements in Ukraine, contact the FCDO on 01908 516 666 if you have not already done this. We are providing support, for example by issuing Emergency Travel Documents for British nationals.
The FCDO advises against all travel to Ukraine. Due to the security challenges in Ukraine we currently advise against commissioning new surrogacy arrangements there. If you are still considering commissioning a surrogacy arrangement in Ukraine, check if the surrogacy agency is still able to provide services. You should research prospective clinics in detail to ensure they are reputable, and consider the potential risks and challenges involved in pursuing international surrogacy.
If you already have surrogacy arrangements in place:
you may wish to ask your surrogacy agency about the safest location where all parties to the surrogacy arrangement can stay. The FCDO cannot facilitate evacuation.
make sure you have sought UK legal advice regarding Parental Orders and the documentation required for nationality determinations and travel documents.
we recommend in-country legal advice but, due to the Russian invasion of Ukraine, we cannot confirm which lawyers are operating and what services are still being offered. In-country legal advice is important for issues like legalising of UK documents, notarising Ukrainian documents, document processing and the maximum period of visa-free stay the relevant authorities will allow.
Read the information for British nationals on surrogacy arrangements in foreign countries.
Corruption
Corruption remains a major problem. If you think you have been mistreated by an official then you should report your case to the relevant government department:
you can make a complaint about political corruption and mistreatment from the authorities to the National Anti-Corruption Bureau: telephone (+38 044) 200 06 94
complaints about immigration issues should be raised with the State Border Guard Service of Ukraine: telephone (+38 044) 527 63 63, e-mail: dovira@dpsu.gov.ua
corruption by the police should be reported to the General Prosecutor’s Office: telephone (+38 044) 280 80 63, online form
you should complain about customs officials to the State Customs Service of Ukraine: telephone (+38 044) 284 19 34.
