Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

With effect from 15 March, foreign citizens who are not residents of Ukraine will not be allowed to enter the country. Those already in Ukraine will be permitted to leave.
Scheduled flights, train and bus services to and from Ukraine have been suspended. There are currently extremely limited commercial options available to return to the UK from Ukraine.
A SkyUp Airlines flight will depart Kyiv to Frankfurt at 0745am on Saturday 25 April. Tickets are on sale on the SkyUp Airlines website. If you encounter problems when trying to book online, please contact SkyUp Airlines on +380 800 30 31 13. This flight will travel to Frankfurt only. Currently there is an onward flight on sale to London with Lufthansa at 1400 the same day. To book go to the Lufthansa website.
If you would like to take this opportunity to leave Ukraine to return to the UK or a third country, then you need evidence of onward travel, for example, a flight ticket to your next destination.
We know that this situation is concerning for British people trying to leave Ukraine. The UK government is working closely with airlines and other governments to make sure options are available for you to return to the UK as soon as possible.
Measures imposed by some third countries to combat coronavirus include restricting entry of foreign nationals and suspending flight operations in those countries. If you wish to leave Ukraine via a third country, check FCO Travel Advice for other all countries you will visit or transit, and check with your airline.
Future travel options
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Arrival in the UK
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British Embassy in Kyiv on +380 44 490 3660. The Embassy cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone.
Updates are also published on the Embassy’s Facebook and Twitter social media channels.
Further information
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
