The authorities in the countries bordering Ukraine set and enforce entry rules. Before you travel, check the foreign travel advice for any countries you plan to travel through. If you need consular assistance contact that country’s British embassy, high commission or consulate. Consider checking with your transport provider or travel company that your passport and other travel documents meet their entry requirements.
Coronavirus rules for entering the UK
Check what you must do to enter England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland. This includes information for if you are not fully vaccinated and you’re travelling to England from Ukraine.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents and Emergency Passports are accepted for exit from Ukraine. If you need such a document, you should call +380 44 490 3660 or +44 (0)1908 516666 and select the option for ‘consular services for British nationals.’
Visas for the UK
If you are a family member of a British national normally living in Ukraine and intend to apply or a visa under the Ukrainian Family Scheme, please read the guidance on visas for family members of British nationals normally living in Ukraine.You should call +44 808 164 8810 for assistance before applying. Lines are open 24 hours, 7 days a week.
To apply for the Ukraine Family Scheme visa, you must provide evidence that your UK-based family member is one of the following:
An immediate family member
An extended family member
An immediate family member of an extended family member
Under this scheme, which will be free, those joining family in the UK will be granted leave for an initial period of 12 months. They will be able to work and access public funds.
From Tuesday 15 March 2022, if you are outside the UK and hold a valid Ukrainian international passport, you will no longer need to provide your biometric information from overseas to apply to the Ukraine Family Scheme. You will still need to complete an application online, but you will not need to attend an in-person appointment at a visa application centre.
Visa overstays
There are no penalties for British citizens overstaying under the visa-free regime during quarantine (providing they leave within 30 days of quarantine ending). However if you have overstayed you will not be able to return to Ukraine for 90 days after leaving the country.
You do not need to complete an immigration card. Immigration officials may require you to scan your fingerprints as part of biometric data collection at border crossing points. For more details, visit the website of the State Border Guard Service of Ukraine.
Customs regulations
You can find general information about exporting items on the website of the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine (in Ukrainian). There are strict customs regulations governing the export from Ukraine of antiques and items of historical interest. If in doubt seek prior permission from the customs authorities: telephone: (+38 044) 454 16 13, e-mail: idd@sfs.gov.ua.
Travel within Ukraine
Due to the Russian invasion of Ukraine, you should expect disruption to travel and changes at short notice. You should travel only if you judge it is safe to do so. We cannot confirm which services below are operating. Where possible, check before travelling.
It is still a legal requirement to wear a face mask on all public transport in Ukraine, including at stations. If you are over 18 years old, you will need to demonstrate one of the following to travel by train or travel by intercity bus:
A vaccination certificate (UK vaccination certificates are recognised in Ukraine)
COVID-19 negative test (valid for 72 hours) or
COVID-certificate of recovery (using the application Diia only).
However the ongoing war in Ukraine has meant that the strict adherence to and enforcement of these laws is not certain.
Rail travel
For train timetables and ticket reservation see the Ukrainian Railways site. Services are subject to disruption due to Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.
If you travel by train, make sure your belongings are secure. Don’t agree to look after the luggage of a fellow traveller or allow it to be stored in your compartment.
Bus travel
In Ukraine, bus services are run by independent companies. Tickets can normally be bought on the company website online or at ticket offices in cities or at the bus station.
In major cities the main bus stations are:
Kyiv:
Central bus station, Nauky avenue 1, (Tel: +38044 525-5774, +38044 527-9986)
Vydubichi, Naberezhno Pecherska Road, 10a (Tel: +38044 528 30 1, +38044 524 74 26, +38044 524 74 26 (booking tickets)
Bus station Darnytsya, Gagarina Avenue 1, (Tel: +380432 559 46 18 (booking tickets), +380432 559 64 95)
Bus station Podil, Nyzhniy Val 15A, (Tel: +380 (44) 417 32 15 +380 (44) 425 13 38)
Bus station Polissya, Tarasa Shevchenko square, 2, (Tel: +38044 430 35 54 +38044 430 43 48)
Bus station Pivdenna, Glushkova Street, 3, (Tel: +38044 257 40 04)
Lviv:
Central bus station “Lviv”, 109 Stryyska Street (Tel: +380 322 444444)
North bus station, 225 Khmelnytskoho Street (Tel: +380 322 52 0489)
Western bus station, 359 Gorodotska Street (Tel: +380 322 55 62 63)
Coach station No 3, 11 Petlyury Street (Tel: +380 322 92 23 32)
Coach station No 5, 2 Luhanska Street (Tel: +380 322 70 27 85)
Coach station No 8, 1 Ploscha Dvirtseva (at the Lviv Railway Station) (Tel: +380 322 38 83 08)
Leaving Ukraine by car
You can leave Ukraine by car through the Border Crossing points. There are reports of long queues at the border crossing points.
You may find the following websites useful in providing a picture of waiting times. These include:
• https://dpsu.gov.ua/en/map - Ukrainian Govt. Border Force on border crossing points
• https://visitukraine.today/ - In English/ Ukrainian – rules on border crossing points
• https://kordon.customs.gov.ua/en - updates on wait times at border crossing points
You should ensure you have a good supply of food, water, warm clothing, medication and fuel for delays crossing the border.
In addition to your travel documents, State Border Guard Service of Ukraine (SBGSU) will check the following documents:
Registration documents for the car
International Insurance Certificate for the vehicle (Green Card), which you can buy from Ukrainian or International Insurance companies. Read more information from the Ukrainian Government on border crossing or call the SBGSU Hotline on 1598 from a Ukrainian mobile.
If you leave the country in a vehicle registered in the UK, which you temporarily imported to Ukraine, you will have to provide your import custom declaration when leaving. Depending on your circumstances, the Custom Service of Ukraine may require additional documents. Check information (in Ukrainian) or call Custom Service of Ukraine Hotline on 1548 from Ukrainian mobile.
If you are non-resident in Ukraine, you are allowed to bring a vehicle into Ukraine for personal use for a maximum of 1 year (see our advice in the entry requirements section) before registering it in the Ukraine system. If your car does not meet this requirement you will not be able to exit Ukraine. Find out what you need to do on the State Fiscal Service’s website (in Ukrainian).
Licences and documents
You must have a valid International Driving Permit to drive legally in Ukraine, as well as your UK driving licence. You will need to have the 1968 permit to drive in Ukraine. 1949 permits previously issued by the UK may no longer be accepted in Ukraine.
A green card is proof that you have vehicle insurance when driving abroad. You need to carry a green card to drive in Ukraine.
Make sure you have original vehicle-registration papers, ownership documents and insurance papers available at all times. These will be required if you are stopped by the police and when crossing borders. This also applies to rental vehicles. If you do not have these papers when stopped by the police they have the right to impound your vehicle and charge you for this.
Car hire
If you intend to rent a vehicle for your travel in Ukraine, you should check with the car hire company and insurance company their policy on renting cars in Ukraine and any other country you will pass through, especially non-EU countries. Ensure they provide you with a rental agreement permitting you to cross the Ukrainian border.
Driving standards
Roads are of variable quality and routes may be affected by the ongoing conflict. Avoid night-time travel wherever possible.
Local driving standards are poor. Street lights are weak, speed limits, traffic lights and road signs are often ignored, and drivers frequently do not indicate before manoeuvring. There are a high number of traffic accidents, including fatalities. Speeding, drink driving and infrequent use of helmets, seat belts and child restraints in vehicles are the main contributing factors.
In case of a road accident dial 102. Local officials generally only speak Ukrainian and Russian.
Driving regulations
You must wear a seat belt. Using a mobile phone while driving is prohibited. There is a zero limit on drinking alcohol and driving.
Ukrainian law allows the police to stop a vehicle. The police officer should give their name and rank, explain why you have been stopped and make an administrative offence report. The police may film interactions with members of the public. Fines can be levied for minor offences such as illegal parking or jumping a red light. The police may be carrying a credit card terminal to collect payment on the spot, or fines may be paid online or at a bank within 15 days. See payment options (in Ukrainian).
See the AA and RAC guides to driving in Ukraine.
Leaving Ukraine by air
Ukraine’s airspace is closed.
Travelling from Ukraine to Poland
If you plan to travel to Poland, check the travel advice page for Poland which includes information on entry requirements.
Travelling from Ukraine to Poland by car
The Ukrainian government website lists the main border crossings into Poland.
Travelling from Ukraine to Hungary
If you plan to travel to Hungary, check our travel advice page for Hungary which includes information on entry requirements. You can also check specific border crossing requirements on the Hungarian police website.
Travelling from Ukraine to Hungary by train
Check the Ukrainian government website for information on train availability and tickets. You can book tickets using the Hungarian national railway website.
Travelling from Ukraine to Hungary by car
The Hungarian police website provides information on crossing the Ukraine-Hungary border.
Travelling from Ukraine to Slovakia
If you plan to travel to Slovakia, check our travel advice for Slovakia which includes information on entry requirements.
Travelling from Ukraine to Slovakia by train
For cross-border rail connections, please see the Slovak national rail website.
Travelling from Ukraine to Slovakia by car
For information on crossing the Ukraine-Slovakia border, please see Slovak government website.
Travelling from Ukraine to Romania
If you plan to travel to Romania, check our travel advice for Romania which includes information on entry requirements.
Travelling from Ukraine to Moldova
If you plan to travel to Moldova, check our travel advice for Moldova which includes information on entry requirements.
The FCDO advise against all travel to Transnistria.
Borders with Belarus
FCDO Travel Advice for Belarus currently advises against all travel to Belarus. You should not attempt to cross into Ukraine from Belarus.
Borders with Russia
FCDO Travel Advice for Russia currently advises against all travel to Russia.
International border crossings that are not currently under the control of the Ukrainian authorities include:
all land border crossings into Donetsk oblast
many of the land border crossings into Luhansk oblast
all air and sea ports in Crimea and the Kerch Bridge road and rail crossing into Crimea
