Coronavirus guidance is being updated.
Read what you can and cannot do

This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Ukraine as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Ukraine to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Ukraine
For information on entering Ukraine, see Entry Requirements.
The Ukrainian government has extended quarantine measures until 22 May, although some restrictions will be lifted from 11 May:
schools and universities have been closed
all public (cultural, entertainment, sports, social, religious and other) gatherings involving more than 10 people are prohibited
restaurants, cafes, entertainment centres, fitness centres, and cultural establishments are closed, as are shops except supermarkets, pharmacies, banks and petrol stations
metro networks are closed
intercity and interregional trains and buses, domestic flights are suspended
use of public transportation in Kyiv is limited to critical sector workers. Special routes will be operated and travellers will need to prove that they work in such sectors to board. Kyiv City Council requires passengers on public transport to wear a face mask
local buses and trams continue to operate in other regions but may only carry 10 passengers at a time
from 24 March, Kyiv State Administration requires all staff and customers to wear face masks in all shops, including supermarkets, grocery stores and pharmacies
It is forbidden:
to be in public places without a mask or respirator
to gather out of doors in groups of more than two people, except with children or in cases of special need
for under-16s to be in public places, unless accompanied by an adult
to visit parks, recreation areas, sports grounds and playgrounds, except for walking pets (one person only)
Additional restrictions are also being introduced in Chernivtsi and some other areas of the country. Failure to comply with these restrictions may result in a fine or, in more serious cases, a prison sentence.
From 11 May the restriction on visiting parks and recreation areas will be lifted and shops, open air cafes, takeaway services, beauty salons and hairdressers, museums, libraries household service centres, shoe repairers, dentists, auditors, attorneys and notaries will be allowed to operate.
Visas
Where the restrictions on travel and availability of government services mean that foreigners stay in Ukraine beyond the period permitted by their visa-free limit or visa validity, or that they are unable to extend residence permits, there will be no penalties imposed.
Health
If you have COVID-19 symptoms, such as a dry cough, respiratory difficulties, and a high temperature, you should:
if you have insurance or a private medical provider in Ukraine, seek assistance from them in the first instance
if you do not have insurance or your symptoms are more severe, call an ambulance on 103. Please note that the ambulance service may not have English-speaking operators available. In this case, please enlist the help of a Ukrainian or Russian-speaking friend, family member, hotel worker etc to help you call the ambulance
In both cases, you are likely to be advised to self-isolate, or be taken to a hospital where you will be tested for coronavirus. In case of a positive diagnosis, please inform the British Embassy Kyiv by calling +380 44 490 3660 or by completing this web contact form, or ask a friend or relative to contact us on your behalf.
If taken to hospital, you are likely to be tested for coronavirus. The choice of hospital will depend on your location and the availability of hospitals and/or beds.
British nationals should receive medical treatment free of charge within Ukraine’s state healthcare system for suspected or confirmed cases of COVID-19 – please speak to your insurance company to determine if you are covered for the cost of any treatment at a private clinic, or treatment for any other illness.
If you come into contact with someone who is confirmed to have COVID-19, or has COVID-19 symptoms, you must self-isolate for 14 days. Contact your insurer or private medical provider, or call an ambulance on 103, should you develop symptoms yourself. Failure to comply with these restrictions may result in a fine or, in more serious cases, a prison sentence.
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Ukraine.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
You can find more information about the situation in Ukraine on the website of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine (in English) and Ukrainian, or by calling the Cabinet of Ministers COVID19 hotline on +38 (0)800 505 201.
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
