The FCDO advise against all travel to Ukraine.
If you are a British national still in Ukraine, you should register your presence in Ukraine. This will allow us to provide the latest information. You should also continue to read and follow FCDO Travel Advice.
Russia has started military operations in Ukraine. There are multiple reports of widespread military activity and real risk to life. We advise British nationals to leave Ukraine immediately if you judge it is safe to do so. Ukraine’s airspace is closed. If you need assistance as you cross a border, please contact the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO) on the number listed below. FCDO Rapid Deployment Teams have been deployed to neighbouring countries to support British nationals in need of consular assistance.
The British Embassy office in Kyiv has temporarily relocated. Embassy staff are operating from the British Embassy office in Lviv. The in-person consular services that British Embassy office in Lviv can provide are extremely limited and may be further affected by Russian military action. British Nationals should not expect increased consular support or help with evacuating in these circumstances. A full range of assistance is available in neighbouring countries. If you are in need of assistance to leave Ukraine, you should call +380 44 490 3660 or +44 (0)1908 516666 and select the option for “consular services for British nationals.” You can also send an enquiry via the web contact form.
Following the introduction of martial law on 24 February, you should follow the advice of the Ukrainian authorities while you remain in Ukraine. It is likely that commercial routes out of Ukraine will be severely disrupted and roads across Ukraine could be closed. If you are in the vicinity of military activity and you cannot leave safely, you should stay indoors, away from windows, and remain alert to developments that would allow you to leave safely.
If you decide to remain in Ukraine, you should remain vigilant throughout for any potential combat operations, keep your departure plans under constant review and ensure your travel documents are up to date. You should monitor the media and this travel advice regularly, subscribe to email alerts and read our advice on how to deal with a crisis overseas.
Before you travel within Ukraine, you should check local measures in place under martial law and the State of Emergency, that roads are open and, where appropriate, that scheduled train and bus services are operating before you travel. Check our travel advice for any neighbouring country that you are planning to travel to or through. If you need assistance in any of the countries you are transiting through, you can find the contact details of our consular teams there on the travel advice or embassy webpage of the relevant country.
Ukraine introduced martial law across the whole country on 24 February, in addition to the nationwide State of Emergency. You should check the measures in place in your location as they will vary from region to region and follow the instructions of the local Ukrainian authorities. The Ukrainian military may rapidly change the measures in place in response to the level of threat. You should expect increased documentation checks on people and vehicles, transport restrictions and increased security measures for public buildings and infrastructure. Other measures could include additional border controls, restrictions on large public events, curfews, restrictions on telephones, internet and broadcasting, and evacuations of certain areas.
The Ukrainian State Border Service announced additional temporary measures for border zones with Russia and Belarus, neighbouring rayons to Crimea and non-government-controlled Donetsk and Luhansk oblasts, and along Ukraine’s coastline. If you have decided to remain in Ukraine, you should check the measures in force in your area.
Russia’s military action in Ukraine will severely affect the British Government’s ability to provide consular assistance in Ukraine. British Nationals should not expect increased consular support or help with evacuating in these circumstances.
If you are an immediate family member* of a British National normally living in Ukraine and intend to apply for a visa under the Family Migration route, read the guidance on visas for immediate family members of British nationals normally living in Ukraine. You should call +44 (0) 300 3032785 for assistance before applying. Lines are open Monday – Friday 8am-8pm and Saturday and Sunday 9am-5.30pm.
*‘Immediate family member’ is defined as spouse/unmarried partner/ child under the age of 18/ parent if British National is child under 18/ adult dependant who normally resides with you due to a medical condition.
Public demonstrations regularly take place. Policing of these events may include road closures. You should avoid all demonstrations and take extra care at public gatherings. In Kyiv, the areas around Maydan Nezalezhnosti (Independence Square) and government buildings such as the Verkhovna Rada (parliament building) and the Cabinet of Ministers are most frequently affected.
COVID-19 entry restrictions for Ukraine
Before you travel, check the ‘Entry requirements’ section for Ukraine’s current entry restrictions and requirements. These may change with little warning. Monitor this advice for the latest updates and stay in contact with your travel provider.
Travelling from and returning to the UK
Check what you must do to travel abroad and return to England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
If you plan to pass through another country to return to the UK, check the travel advice for the country you’re transiting. If you will pass through a red list country, book your hotel quarantine package before travelling to the UK.
If you’re planning travel to Ukraine, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCDO’s guidance on foreign travel insurance.
For information about COVID-19 vaccines, see the Coronavirus page.
It’s illegal under Ukrainian law to enter internationally recognised Ukrainian territory through a border point that isn’t currently controlled by the Ukrainian authorities. See Borders
British Citizen passport holders can enter Ukraine without a visa for visits of up to 90 days within a 180-day period. Ukraine has confirmed that this policy will continue to apply to British citizens until 30 January 2023. See Visas
Take care on the roads. There are a high number of traffic accidents, including fatalities. See Road travel
Beware of petty crime, especially in crowded areas and tourist spots or when using public transport. See Crime
Terrorist attacks in Ukraine can’t be ruled out. See Terrorism
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.
The Overseas Business Risk service offers information and advice for British companies operating overseas on how to manage political, economic, and business security-related risks.
