!
Warning
FCDO advises against all travel to parts of Ukraine.
!
Warning
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to parts of Ukraine.

Your travel insurance could be invalidated if you travel against advice from the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO).
Areas where FCDO advises against travel 
Crimea  
FCDO advises against all travel to Crimea.
Border with Belarus  
FCDO advises against all travel to within 50km of the border with Belarus in the following regions: 
Volyn 
Rivne 
Zhytomyr 
This is due to the ongoing presence of Russian and Belarusian military and security personnel on the Belarusian side of the border. 
All other regions of Ukraine 
FCDO advises against all travel to all other regions of Ukraine (with the exception of some Western regions; see below).
Areas where FCDO advises against all but essential travel
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to the following regions in western Ukraine: 
All parts: 
Zakarpattia  
Ivano-Frankivsk 
Ternopil 
Chernivtsi 
Lviv 
Parts further than 50km from the border with Belarus:
(see Border with Belarus above)
Volyn 
Rivne 
Zhytomyr
Russian invasion of Ukraine
The Russian invasion of Ukraine is ongoing, with frequent missile and drone attacks across the country, which injure and kill civilians and cause significant damage to civilian infrastructure, including residential areas, energy and industrial facilities. Russian Military activity against Ukraine has increased over the last 6 months, with the total number of drone and missile strikes increasing in size. Russia launched around 5,500 drones and missiles in June 2025, up from 3,900 in February 2025 and 1,000 in August 2024. British nationals are advised to exercise heightened awareness and be prepared to immediately shelter in the event an air alert is announced. Be extra vigilant whilst travelling in urban centres.
There is an ongoing risk of harm to British nationals from Russian attacks across all of Ukraine, including from missiles and drones that hit unintended targets or from falling debris. While these are more frequent where FCDO advises against all travel, they can and do also happen in the western regions, where FCDO advice is against all but essential travel.
In the event of attacks, follow the advice of the local authorities, including responding to air raid alerts.
Russian attacks on the energy network may result in unscheduled blackouts or emergency power cuts with little notice. Rolling scheduled blackouts may be required in some areas. Electricity outages may also affect district heating and water supplies. Be aware that temperatures may drop below -20°C in the depths of winter.
Ukraine’s airspace remains closed.
The situation in Ukraine can change quickly. Local rules and measures may change at short notice or with no notification. FCDO cannot confirm that all information here reflects the latest situation in Ukraine.
Support from the UK government   
We continue to advise British nationals in regions where FCDO advises against all travel, to leave these areas, if they judge it safe to do so.
The British Embassy in Kyiv is unable to help you in person. FCDO cannot facilitate your departure from Ukraine or your evacuation.
If you are in Ukraine
Martial law is in place. Follow the instructions of the Ukrainian authorities and check any measures in place in your location, as they will vary by region.
If you are in Ukraine, you should:
monitor local media for updates about security risks in your area
identify shelter locations in advance of any air alert
immediately take shelter if an air alert is announced
follow the directions of Ukrainian officials and first responders in the event of an emergency
take precautions including conserving water, food, and mobile phone charge and having warm clothing/sleeping bags to hand, and monitor local media for updates, including on power cut schedules
pay close attention to your personal security
avoid demonstrations and public gatherings
take extra care while moving around
know what curfews are in place
There are a number of air raid alert apps available, including “Air Alert” and “Карта Тривог”.
Get travel advice updates
Monitor travel advice regularly. Sign up to get email notifications when this advice is updated.
Follow FCDO:   
travel advice on X
travel advice on Facebook
Travel Aware on Instagram
See FCDO advice on how to deal with a crisis overseas.
Leaving Ukraine
Expect increased documentation checks, transport restrictions and increased security measures. Other measures could include additional border controls, restrictions on public events, curfews, restrictions on telephones, internet and broadcasting, and evacuations of certain areas.
If you are a dual British-Ukrainian national or you have the right to reside in the UK, and want to leave Ukraine, contact the State Border Guard Service of Ukraine on adpsu@dpsu.gov.ua for advice.
Ukrainian national and dual-national males aged 18 to 60 are prohibited from leaving the country. Dual-nationals have to comply to the same military conscription laws as Ukrainian mono-nationals.
Even if you do not consider Ukrainian to be your primary nationality, the Ukrainian authorities may see you as a Ukrainian national: for example, if you have a Ukrainian parent, or if you were born in Ukraine.
For any information regarding nationality issues, you would need to seek advice from local authorities or legal experts.
The authorities in the countries bordering Ukraine set and enforce their entry rules. Before you travel, check the foreign travel advice for any countries you plan to travel through. If you need assistance from the UK government, contact the British Embassy in that country.
For information about leaving Ukraine by car, see Transport information and risks.
Assisted departure or evacuation
If you are in Ukraine against FCDO advice, or need support to leave Ukraine, take advice from a private security company and take appropriate security measures.
FCDO cannot endorse or recommend any private security companies. Research whether a service provider will be suitable for your requirements and meets code of conduct and safety standards. The Security in Complex Environments Group (SCEG) has several companies listed on their website. These companies have accredited certification for international standards.
FCDO has not completed due diligence checks on these companies. FCDO does not accept any liability arising to any person for any loss or damage suffered through using these service providers or this information. FCDO is not able to provide financial assistance for employing private security or medical evacuation companies.
British nationals fighting in Ukraine
If you travel to Ukraine to fight, or to assist others engaged in the war, your activities may amount to offences under UK legislation.  You could be prosecuted on your return to the UK.
Since 18 May 2024, British nationals who join the International Legion or Ukraine Armed Forces have to serve at least six months and are not allowed to leave Ukraine during this period.
British nationals fighting in Ukraine have been killed or captured. British nationals undertaking humanitarian work have also been detained by Russian authorities. The risk to life, or of maltreatment, is high.
The British Government’s ability to support you in these circumstances is very limited. It cannot facilitate your departure from Ukraine, your medical repatriation, or termination of your military contract. Find out more about FCDO consular assistance.
Supporting Ukraine
There are many ways to support Ukraine from the UK. For further information, see Ukraine: what you can do to help.
Travel insurance 
If you choose to travel despite FCDO advice, research your destinations and get appropriate travel insurance. Insurance should cover your itinerary, planned activities and expenses in an emergency.
About FCDO travel advice 
The FCDO provides advice about risks of travel to help British nationals make informed decisions. Find out more about FCDO travel advice.
