Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Bosnia and Herzegovina on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
Commercial flights are operating to and from Bosnia and Herzegovina. Check with your travel company for the latest information.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements. You should contact local authorities for information on testing facilities. Only testing centres marked “PZU” offer private testing on demand.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Bosnia and Herzegovina
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Bosnia and Herzegovina to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19). The authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina are imposing new public health measures in response to a rise in coronavirus infections.
Mask wearing and social distancing are required in public transport, in public places and outside in crowded areas, and there can be restrictions on the numbers of people gathering. Failure to observe public health measures can result in fines (see Protective clothing below).
There are restrictions on movement in place in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina (including Sarajevo) between 11pm and 5am. You should follow the advice of all levels of authority as restrictions may be introduced without notice.
Accommodation
Some hotels and private rental services are operating.
Public places and services
Shops are largely open although may be operating reduced hours and with social distancing restrictions.
Further changes could be introduced at short notice. Keep up to date with information from your tour operator, transport or accommodation provider on the impact on any existing travel plans.
Protective clothing
You are required to wear a face mask both inside public spaces and outside in crowded areas. You should also try to maintain two metres distance from others. Fines may be imposed for failure to observe social distancing or mask requirements.
Healthcare in Bosnia and Herzegovina
Access to emergency medical care can be limited. Medical services are often below the standard of those in the UK.
If you are ordered to self-isolate and are found not be doing so, you could be detained in a quarantine facility.
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Bosnia and Herzegovina
We will update this page when the Government of Bosnia and Herzegovina announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Bosnia and Herzegovina national vaccination programme started in February 2021 and is using the Pfizer-BioNTech, AstraZeneca, Sputnik V, Sinopharm and Sinovac vaccines. The Government of Bosnia and Herzegovina has stated that British nationals resident in Bosnia and Herzegovina are eligible for vaccination if they choose to join the programme. Further information on the vaccination programme is available from your local health provider.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in Bosnia and Herzegovina, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
