This page has information on travelling to Bosnia and Herzegovina. Check what you must do to return to the UK.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport from the UK, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina set and enforce entry rules.
All travellers
You will need one of the three to enter or travel through Bosnia and Herzegovina as a visitor:
Negative PCR or antigen COVID test not older than 48 hours if arriving from European country or 72 hours if arriving from outside of Europe
Certificate of vaccination with 2nd vaccine administered more than 14 days before arrival to the border, or at least 14 days after vaccination with a single dose vaccine
COVID Recovery Certificate issued by medical doctor showing recovery from COVID in the period of 14 to 180 days prior to arrival to border
More info is available on the Bosnia and Herzegovina’s Border Police website - Conditions for the entry into Bosnia and Herzegovina
If you’re fully vaccinated
If you’re fully vaccinated, you can enter Bosnia and Herzegovina without needing to test or quarantine.
At least 14 days must have passed since your second dose of the vaccine (or since being vaccinated with a single dose vaccine).
Proof of vaccination status
You must present proof that you have been fully vaccinated to enter Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Bosnia and Herzegovina will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 recovery and vaccination record. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
Residents of Bosnia and Herzegovina
See Conditions for the entry into Bosnia and Herzegovina for information on rules for residents.
If you’re not fully vaccinated
If you’re not fully vaccinated, you’ll need to show proof of a negative PCR test (taken no more than 48 hours before entry) or rapid lateral flow test (taken no more than 48 hours before entry) when entering Bosnia and Herzegovina. See information on getting a test before entry.
Once you arrive in Bosnia and Herzegovina no quarantine or self-isolation measures are prescribed
If you’ve had COVID-19 in the past year
If you’re not fully vaccinated but have tested positive for COVID-19 in the last 18 to 180 days, you can enter Bosnia and Herzegovina with a Certificate of COVID Recovery.
You can use the UK COVID Pass to demonstrate proof of COVID-19 recovery when entering Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Children and young people
Children aged 7 to 17 can follow general rules for applicable to adult travellers to enter Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Children aged 7 and under, travelling with a parent or guardian who has been fully vaccinated or had COVID-19 in the past 14 to 180 days with Recovery Certificate as proof or PCR or antigen test not older than 48 hours, do not need to take a test to enter or show proof of vaccination to enter Bosnia and Herzegovina.
If you’re transiting through Bosnia and Herzegovina
Transiting is when you pass through one country on the way to your final destination.
Transiting through Bosnia and Herzegovina is permitted for travellers who are transiting through the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina for the purpose of returning to the country of usual residence, without staying in the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina
If you are transiting through Bosnia and Herzegovina on your way to another country and staying in the airport (airside) you need to follow the COVID entry rules for general travellers to Bosnia and Herzegovina.
If you are transiting through Bosnia and Herzegovina on your way to another country and will be passing through immigration (sometimes known as a layover), for example to stay in a hotel for a flight the next day, you need to follow the COVID entry rules for general travellers to Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Further information about exemptions when transiting through Bosnia and Herzegovina can be found on the Bosnia and Herzegovina’s Border Police website.
Exemptions
A full list of the exemptions from COVID rules when entering Bosnia and Herzegovina can be found on Bosnia and Herzegovina’s Border Police website: Conditions for the entry into Bosnia and Herzegovina.
HGV drivers
HGV drivers from the UK entering Bosnia and Herzegovina do not have to show a negative COVID-19 test, proof of vaccination or proof of recovery and do not have to quarantine. A full exemption description can be found on Bosnia and Herzegovina’s Border Police website: Conditions for the entry into Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
Check with your travel provider to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Passport validity
Your passport should be in good condition and valid for a minimum period of 90 days from the date of your exit from Bosnia and Herzegovina.
If you are visiting Bosnia and Herzegovina your passport should be valid for at least 3 months from the end of your planned visit to Bosnia and Herzegovina.
If you are a resident in Bosnia and Herzegovina, your passport should be valid for at least 3 months from the end of your planned visit to Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Visas
The Bosnian authorities have advised that where individuals’ visas or residence permits have expired due to current restrictions on travel meaning they were unable to leave the country, the Bosnian authorities will adopt a case by case approach. If your visa or residence permit has expired, you should contact your nearest Field Office of the Service for Foreigners’ Affairs.
For information on how to return to the UK from Bosnia and Herzegovina, see Return to the UK
British nationals don’t need a visa to visit Bosnia and Herzegovina for a total period of no longer than 90 days within a period of 6 months following your first entry. For all other types of travel, contact the Embassy of Bosnia and Herzegovina in London.
Make sure your passport is stamped when you enter the country. If you don’t receive a stamp, the Border Police may fine you when you leave.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents are accepted for entry, airside transit and exit from Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Registration
All foreign nationals must register with the police within 72 hours of arrival. Hotels and registered hostels will usually arrange this for their guests.
British citizens who wish to remain in Bosnia and Herzegovina for longer than 90 days must apply to the Border Police for a Residency Permit. As well as a valid passport, the Border Police require a British Police document showing that you have no criminal record in the United Kingdom. The British Embassy isn’t able to issue such a document. Contact your local police authority in the United Kingdom before you travel.
Travelling with children
Children under 18 years of age who are not Bosnian nationals and who are travelling unaccompanied or accompanied by an adult person other than their parents must carry a notarised letter from their parents giving permission for the child to travel. The name of the accompanying adult must be clearly stated. If the child is accompanied by one parent, particularly if the parent has a different surname to the child’s, the accompanying parent should carry a notarised letter from the other parent giving permission to travel. For further information contact the Embassy of Bosnia and Herzegovina in London.
Returning to the UK
Check what you must do to return to the UK.
