At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Coronavirus
The Bosnian authorities have declared a State of Disaster in response to the novel coronavirus (COVID 19) pandemic.
Current travel measures include forbidding entry at borders to foreign nationals travelling from Austria, Belgium, France, Germany, Italy, Iran, Japan, Romania, Spain, South Korea, Switzerland, and Hubei Province and the city of Wuhan in China. Everyone entering BiH is required to self-isolate for fourteen days. Those showing symptoms of the virus could find themselves detained in camps. New restrictions on travel may be introduced at short notice. You should comply with any additional screening measures put in place by the authorities.
Some airports remain open, although airline schedules are subject to constant change and withdrawal of services at short notice.
Some border crossing points into Bosnia and Herzegovina are closed and neighbouring countries have also placed restrictions on international travel. If you need further information about border crossing, the Border Police of Bosnia and Herzegovina are publishing updates. Please also check FCO travel advice for neighbouring countries.
Both entities of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Federation (including Sarajevo) and Republika Srpska, have advised the temporary closure of educational institutions. Schools in Brcko District are closed indefinitely. In some parts of the country there are restrictions on the opening of shops, restaurants and other facilities. Other restrictive measures include closures of cafés, restaurants, gyms, spas, cinemas, theatres, and other facilities across the country, as well as a ban on all public gatherings. Food shops, pharmacies, and petrol stations will continue working.
Keep up to date with information from your tour operator, transport or accommodation provider on the impact on any existing travel plans.
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
Air pollution
High levels of air pollution can occur across the country. You can find further information and advice on air quality on the World Health Organization (WHO) website and check air quality levels on the World Air Quality Index Website.
Medical treatment
Medical and dental facilities, particularly outside Sarajevo and major towns are limited.
Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation. Your insurance should also include cover for evacuation by air ambulance. EHIC doesn’t cover Bosnia and Herzegovina.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 124 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
