There are currently no commercial options available to return to the UK from Bosnia and Herzegovina due to all airports being closed to passenger flights, no public transport options and restrictions at the border and with entering neighbouring countries.
We know this is concerning for British people trying to leave Bosnia and Herzegovina. The UK government is working closely with airlines, the Bosnian authorities, and other governments to explore what options are available for you to return to the UK as soon as possible.
Future travel options
The UK government is working closely with airlines, the Bosnian authorities and other governments to explore what options are available for you to return to the UK as soon as possible.
This travel advice will be updated when departure options become available.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK.
For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Your journey home
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Help and support
Sign up for email alerts for Bosnia and Herzegovina travel advice and follow the British Embassy on Twitter and Facebook.
The Embassy cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone. This page will be updated when departure options become available. To get the latest information, sign up for email alerts for Bosnia and Herzegovina travel advice.
If you cannot leave Bosnia and Herzegovina
See advice on staying in Bosnia and Herzegovina during coronavirus.
See more information and advice about staying where you are if you cannot return to the UK.
