

Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.     
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Bosnia and Herzegovina
Terrorist attacks in Bosnia and Herzegovina cannot be ruled out.
Previous attacks have included firearms attacks on government, law enforcement interests and the public. Attacks could be indiscriminate, including in places visited by foreigners.
Political situation
Public protests occur from time to time and can cause traffic disruption. Protests are normally peaceful. There is a risk of violent incidents linked to locally controversial issues, usually from the conflict of the 1990s.
There has been an increase in anti-UK rhetoric from some politicians in the Republika Srpska (one of the entities that makes up the State of Bosnia and Herzegovina). This could translate into wider anti-UK sentiment. Monitor local media so you can avoid planned political demonstrations and move away if you see protestors gathering.
Crime
Protecting your belongings
Beware of pickpockets and bag-snatchers on public transport and in the tourist and pedestrian areas of Sarajevo and other cities. Make sure personal belongings, including your passport, are secure. Obvious displays of wealth, including large quantities of cash or jewellery and luxury vehicles can make you a target for opportunist thieves.
There has been an increase in thefts from cars in popular tourist areas in and around Sarajevo, particularly on Mount Trebevic. Make sure your vehicle is locked and your belongings are out of sight. Take particular care in areas popular with foreign tourists and in crowded public venues.
Organised crime 
Incidents of violence between organised crime groups can happen, including shootings. You are unlikely to be targeted. Remain vigilant and follow the advice of the police in the event of an incident.
Old landmines and unexploded weapons
Landmines and other unexploded weapons remain from the 1992 to 1995 war. While highly populated areas and major routes are largely clear, there is still a risk in less populated and rural areas. Do not step off roads and paved areas without an experienced guide. Take care near:
the former lines of conflict
the edge of roads
the open countryside
destroyed or abandoned buildings (including in towns)
neglected land
untarred roads
woods and orchards
For further information, see Mine Action Centre.
Laws and cultural differences
Personal ID
Always carry your passport or official photo ID with you. You must be able to show some form of identification if required, including when checking into hotels. For more information, see the Ministry of Security of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Dealing with the police
Local police do not always have English language skills and you may need the services of a translator.
Ramadan
Ramadan is a holy month for Muslims in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The dates vary by year and country.
You should:
check opening hours of shops and restaurants
be aware that if hotels and restaurants are providing food or drink in fasting hours, they may separate you from other guests
follow local dress codes – clothing that does not meet local dress codes may cause more offence at this time
Get more advice when you arrive from your tour guide, hotel or business contacts.
LGBT+ travellers
Same-sex sexual activity is legal in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but LGBT+ communities continue to report incidents of discrimination and even violence. Showing affection in public is likely to be frowned upon and may receive unwelcome attention.
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Outdoor activities and adventure tourism
Check that your travel and medical insurance cover you for any adventure activities and sports.
Diving
Diving off Mostar bridge is dangerous and has resulted in serious injuries and fatalities.
Rafting
Take care when white-water rafting in rivers or close to waterfalls. Currents can be extremely strong.
Transport risks
Road travel
If you are planning to drive in Bosnia and Herzegovina, see information on driving abroad and check the rules of the road in the RAC’s Bosnia and Herzegovina guide. The guide lists driving regulations and other legal requirements you need to be aware of.
Your UK driving licence is valid as long as you’re driving your own vehicle or a car hired outside of Bosnia and Herzegovina. If you’re renting or using someone else’s vehicle within the country, you must also have the 1968 version of the international driving permit (IDP) with you in the car.
You cannot buy an IDP outside the UK, so get one before you travel.
Check if you need a UK sticker to drive your car outside the UK. 
If you’re staying longer than 6 months, you will need to get a local driving licence. See living in Bosnia and Herzegovina for more details.
Contact the Bosnia and Herzegovina Embassy in the UK if you have questions about bringing a vehicle into the country. The British Embassy will not be able to help if you do not have the correct documentation.
If you are involved in an accident, stay at the scene and do not move your vehicle until the police arrive. Traffic police can impose on-the-spot fines for any traffic offence.
Border insurance
It’s illegal to drive without at least third-party insurance. The Border Police can request printed documents to show you have it.
Check your insurance is valid in Bosnia and Herzegovina. If it’s not, you can buy ‘border insurance’ at the crossings at:
Bijaca
Crveni Grm (south)
Izacici (west)
Kamensko
Karakaj and Raca (east)
Samac (north-east)
Zubci (south-east)
Doljan
Winter equipment requirements
Take care when travelling outside the main towns and cities in winter, as road conditions can worsen quickly.
Between November and April you must:
have tyres with an MS, M+S or M&S mark and a stylised symbol of a snowflake – the tread should be at least 4 millimetres deep
carry snow chains and use them when road signs tell you to
Taxis
Official taxis in Sarajevo and the major towns are well-regulated and metered. Taxi drivers from the Republika Srpska might refuse to drive to a destination in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the same from the Federation to the Republika Srpska.
Do not use unlicensed taxis.
Air travel
Sarajevo (Butmir) International Airport is prone to fog, causing flights to be delayed or cancelled during the winter months, particularly in December and January. Many airlines will not arrange accommodation when delays are caused by bad weather. You may need to find and pay for somewhere to stay.
Extreme weather and natural disasters
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards.
Wildfires
Wildfires are possible in Bosnia and Herzegovina from April to October due to the dry and hot weather.  Wildfires are highly dangerous and unpredictable. You should: 
take care when visiting or driving through countryside 
make sure cigarette ends are properly extinguished 
not light fires or barbecues except in designated and marked areas 
not leave any rubbish 
If you see a wildfire, call the emergency services on 112. Follow any advice from the police or local authorities.
Flooding
Flash floods and landslides are a risk in all parts of Bosnia and Herzegovina after heavy rain. Follow instructions from local officials and traffic police.
Earthquakes
Earthquakes and small tremors are recorded throughout the year, usually without serious consequences. The US Federal Emergency Management Agency website has advice about what to do before, during and after an earthquake.
