This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Bosnia and Herzegovina as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Bosnia and Herzegovina to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Bosnia and Herzegovina
For information on entering Bosnia and Herzegovina, see Entry Requirements
There is no longer a daily curfew in the Federation entity of BiH. In the Republika Srpska, there is a general curfew in place from 10pm-5am.
You should follow the advice of all levels of authority as other local levels may change measures without notice.
Shops and services
Other restrictive measures include closures of cinemas, theatres, and other facilities across the country, as well as a ban on large public gatherings. Many shops, pharmacies, petrol stations and other exempt places are now working.
Most educational institutions remain closed across the country.
Public transport is only partially operating.
Further changes could be introduced at short notice. Keep up to date with information from your tour operator, transport or accommodation provider on the impact on any existing travel plans.
Visas
The Bosnian authorities have advised that where individuals’ visas or residence permits have expired due to current restrictions on travel meaning they were unable to leave the country, the Bosnian authorities will adopt a case by case approach. If your visa or residence permit has expired, you should contact your nearest Field Office of the Service for Foreigners’ Affairs.
Health
Access to emergency medical care can be limited. Medical services are often below the standard of those in the UK.
If you are ordered to self-isolate and are found not be doing so, you could be detained in a quarantine facility.
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Protective clothing
When outside, everyone is required to wear a face mask or other face covering and gloves.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
