Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

Coronavirus (COVID-19): stay up to date
Cases of coronavirus (COVID-19) have been confirmed in Bosnia and Herzegovina. See information on measures introduced in Bosnia and Herzegovina to limit the spread of the virus. Find out how to return to the UK from Bosnia and Herzegovina.
See coronavirus travel advice for guidance on international travel.
Sign up for email alerts for Bosnia and Herzegovina travel advice.
The authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina have declared a State of Disaster in response to the coronavirus pandemic.
All airports are closed to passenger flights. Entry is prohibited for all foreign nationals except residents, diplomats, and EUFOR/NATO staff and some other specified categories. Anyone entering the country, and others ordered to, must self-isolate for fourteen days.
Those showing symptoms of the virus could find themselves detained in camps. There is a curfew in both the Federation and Republika Srpska from 8pm to 5am. An additional curfew in Republika Srpska prohibits any movement for anyone outside of their place of residence from 1200 on Saturdays until 1800 on Sundays. If you are ordered to self-isolate and are found not be doing so, you could be detained in a quarantine facility. Further restrictions on travel may be introduced at short notice. See Coronavirus
See Return to the UK for more details.
Around 9,000 British nationals visit Bosnia and Herzegovina every year. Most visits are trouble-free.
Unexploded landmines remain a real danger, particularly in isolated areas in the mountains and countryside. Flooding and landslides in previous years have moved minefields and destroyed some of the minefield markings. For latest updates on mines see the Mine Action Centre website. See Local travel
If you are travelling by road, check local information before setting off.
For information on weather conditions, see meteoalarm pages for Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Terrorists are likely to try to carry out attacks in Bosnia and Herzegovina. See Terrorism
High levels of air pollution can occur in Bosnia and Herzegovina. See Health
The level of crime against foreigners is generally low, but you should beware of pickpockets in cities and on public transport, and take particular care in areas known to be popular with tourists. See Crime
You can contact the emergency services by calling 122 (police), 123 (fire) or 124 (ambulance).
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.
The Overseas Business Risk service offers information and advice for British companies operating overseas on how to manage political, economic, and business security-related risks.
The European Health Insurance Card (EHIC) doesn’t cover Bosnia and Herzegovina. Take out comprehensive travel and medical insurance, including cover for evacuation by air ambulance, before you travel.
