Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Timor-Leste on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
Commercial flights to and from Timor-Leste remain very limited. Check with your travel company for the latest information.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Timor-Leste.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Timor-Leste
The capital, Dili, is re-imposing lockdown until 15 June 2021. During the lockdown period, if you are in Dili, you are prohibited to travel by land, sea or air to other municipalities except for health, security and humanitarian reasons which are considered necessary and authorised by the Integrated Crisis Management Centre. All social, cultural, sporting and religious events that involve gatherings of people are prohibited. The operation of public transport (microlets, biscotas and taxis) throughout the municipality of Dili are prohibited. Lockdown is also imposed in the municipalities of Covalima and Bobonaro until 15 June; while in the municipalities of Baucau, and Viqueque until 8 June 2021.
All individuals residing in the municipality of Dili are required to isolate at home, except for the following reasons; seeking medical assistance, participating in judicial or police investigations, for which they are notified, purchase of goods or payment for essential services, including food, electricity supply, telecommunication services and access to the internet and attending to work and or professional obligations that have not be waived by their employer.
Those who have been fully vaccinated and hold a valid vaccination certificate will be exempt from mandatory quarantine (after coming from abroad) and can move freely throughout the territory including in the municipalities where lockdown is imposed.
You are required to wear a protective mask covering your mouth and nose and a safe distance of at least 1.5 meters must be observed. Anyone who displays a body temperature of higher than 37.5°C, or has a sore throat, or a cold, or respiratory distress including shortness of breath is forbidden to board buses, ships or aircrafts (the only exception is in the case of medical evacuation).
Public places and services
Grocery shops, fuel stations, pharmacies, clinics, banking facilities and building material stores remain open but enforce a 1 meter minimum distance between each person.
Healthcare in Timor-Leste
Medical services in Timor-Leste are limited, particularly outside Dili. See Other Health care for more information. If you think you have COVID-19 symptoms can attend a health care facility for a COVID-19 test). Positive cases will be subject to isolation.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Timor-Leste.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Timor-Leste
As information is available about the national vaccination programme, this page will be updated.
The Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) is the UK authority responsible for assessing the safety, quality and efficacy of vaccines. It has authorised the Pfizer/BioNTech, Oxford/AstraZeneca and Moderna vaccines for temporary supply and use in the UK. Find out more about MHRA approval for these vaccines.
British nationals living overseas should seek medical advice from their local healthcare provider in the country where they reside. Information about vaccines used in other national programmes, including regulatory status, should be available from the local authorities. This list of Stringent Regulatory Authorities recognised by the World Health Organisation may also be a useful source of additional information. Find out more information about the COVID-19 vaccines on the World Health Organization COVID-19 vaccines page.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
Check the Ministry of Health website for full details. Consular support may be limited in Timor-Leste as there’s no resident British diplomatic mission. Emergency consular services are provided by the New Zealand Embassy in Dili (24 hour emergency number: +670 7732 1015) and the British Honorary Consul. For all routine consular issues, contact the British Embassy in Jakarta, Indonesia.
