This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Timor-Leste set and enforce entry rules. For further information contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to. You should also consider checking with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Entry rules in response to coronavirus
Entry to Timor-Leste
The Government of Timor-Leste has extended its State of Emergency until 29 September 2021. During this period, airports, ports and land borders will remain closed as there continues to be a significant number of COVID infections in the country.
During the above mentioned period of closure, the following exceptions will apply:
Transit of Diplomatic or Consular Personnel, members of International Organisations and bilateral cooperation agencies, and workers in the petroleum sector, and other international workers whose work is relevant to Timor-Leste’s national interest;
Operation of medical evacuations, and;
International Transportation of goods.
These categories are always subject to change, so you should reconfirm your eligibility to enter Timor-Leste, with the Crisis Management Centre (CIGC) your travel agent/airline and the Embassy of Timor-Leste.
You should not use the NHS testing service to get a test in order to facilitate your travel to another country. You should arrange to take a private test.
Quarantine requirements
To enter Timor-Leste you will need to be in possession of a valid negative COVID 19 (PCR) test. Following the presentation of the negative COVID 19 test, you will need to quarantine for 14 days either in a government facility at your own expense or in your own accommodation, subject to the approval of the Ministry of Health. Prior to the termination of mandatory quarantine periods, individuals will need to provide a negative COVID-19 test result and be cleared by the Ministry of health, before being authorised to leave.
Those who have been fully vaccinated and hold a valid vaccination certificate will be exempt from mandatory quarantine.
Those who have been fully vaccinated but have come from or passed through countries with a reported presence of the Delta variant of COVID-19 will need to complete a five-day quarantine. Unvaccinated children may be required to complete mandatory quarantine even when travelling with vaccinated parents.
Those who present symptoms of COVID-19, including a fever greater than 37.5°C, cough and/or breathing difficulties will be prevented from travelling, and taken to a health facility for a COVID-19 test.
For someone returning a positive result, they will be contacted by the authorities and isolated in either a health establishment (e.g the national Hospital), an isolation centre, such as those at Tasi Tolu, Vera Cruz and Lahane or at home. Where the positive patient isolates is at the discretion of the Ministry of Health.
Testing on departure
Those wishing to leave Timor-Leste will be subject to health control measures including body temperature checks. Passengers are screened before entering the check-in area at Dili Airport. Those with symptoms of COVID-19 will not be allowed to board the aircraft and will be required to undergo a COVID-19 test, regardless of having a negative test result from within 48 or 72 hours of the flight. The situation in Timor-Leste can change quickly. In exceptional cases, the Government may introduce temporary border closures.
Regular entry requirements
Visas
A tourist visa costs US$30 and can normally be issued to the holder of a valid British passport on arrival at Dili International airport or Dili seaport, provided entry into Timor-Leste is regarded as being for a legitimate purpose. The visa will be valid for a single entry and will allow you to stay for up to 30 days.
British Citizens intending to enter the country via the Indonesia (West Timor) land border crossing at Atambua/Batugade need to apply in Kupang for a tourism visa in advance. This visa will generally be valid for a single entry and a duration of up to 30 days.
In Dili, tourism visas can be extended to a total of 90 days, for a fee.
If you plan to travel overland (rather than by the ferry) to the exclave of Oecussi you’ll need to apply for an additional visa. You must present your round trip ticket and complete the required forms at your nearest Timor-Leste embassy or consulate, or in Dili, prior to travel. For information on other types of visa see the Immigration Department of Timor-Leste.
Passport validity
Your passport should be valid for a minimum period of 6 months from the date of entry into Timor-Leste.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are accepted for exit from Timor-Leste only. You can’t use an ETD to enter the country. If you wish to transit Timor-Leste, you should contact the Immigration Department of Timor-Leste before you travel to confirm the requirements.
