At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Coronavirus
There is an ongoing outbreak of coronavirus in China (COVID-19), but cases have been confirmed in other countries. On 5 March the government introduced a temporary ban on all foreign nationals entering Timor-Leste that have entered or transited China within the previous four weeks. Individuals that have entered or transited China in the last four weeks and wishing to enter Timor-Leste must be able to present a medical report to immigration officials from an internationally recognised institution declaring the individual free from coronavirus. This restriction is subject to review on a fortnightly basis. Please see the Government of Timor-Leste website for more information.
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
Medical services in Timor-Leste are limited, particularly outside Dili. In the event of a medical emergency, evacuation to Australia or Singapore is likely to be the best option for treatment.  Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation.
The World Health Organisation have noted that the incidence of malaria in Timor-Leste has reduced dramatically in recent years. Dengue fever remains a risk throughout Timor-Leste, during the rainy season, which runs from November to April. There have been no reported cases of rabies.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip seek up to date local advice from foreign residents and/or dial 110 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
