

Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.    
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Timor-Leste
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Timor-Leste, attacks cannot be ruled out.
Political situation     
The security situation in Timor-Leste has improved but there are still underlying tensions, particularly during election periods when the security situation could deteriorate with little warning.
Political demonstrations and local unrest occasionally happen. Minor disputes can become violent. Avoid any demonstrations and large crowds, particularly around Tasi Tolu and Comoro in Dili.
Crime 
Crime such as gang-related violence, robbery and assault are common in Timor-Leste. Burglaries are not common but have happened. There have been instances of unmetered taxis charging tourists extortionate prices.
Protecting yourself and your belongings
You can take steps to reduce your personal risk by:
not displaying expensive items of jewellery
not carrying large sums of money
keeping your accommodation locked at all times
keeping your car doors locked and windows up at all times
not travelling alone or to isolated areas
taking care if you go outside after dark
taking care in areas which are remote and cut off from services
booking taxis through your hotel, and seeking local advice on appropriate fares
Sexual assault
There have been reports of harassment and violence against travellers, including lewd remarks and indecent exposure. Offenders mostly target women, but may harass men as well. Sexual assault can happen in public places, such as Beach Road in Dili.
Travel as a group if you can, including when exercising outdoors. If possible, avoid using public transport or taxis alone at night.
See advice for women travelling abroad.
Group fights
There is occasional fighting between groups in Timor-Leste, sometimes related to martial arts groups. These incidents often involve stone throwing and occasionally machetes and knives. Most happen at night.
Foreign nationals have not been targeted, but leave the area immediately if you’re aware of fighting.
Laws and cultural differences
Personal ID and travel documents
Carry a copy of the photo page of your passport and entry visa with you in case the authorities ask to see it. Make sure your travel documents are up-to-date and available in case you need to leave at short notice.
Illegal drugs and prison sentences
Do not get involved with illegal drugs. There are severe penalties if you’re convicted.
Money
Credit cards are accepted for payments by few outlets in Timor-Leste. ATMs, banks, and credit card facilities are not common outside of municipal capitals.
There are a few currency exchanges in the country, but exchange rates are poor and sterling may not be accepted. Bring a few small (5 US dollar) notes as larger denomination notes can be difficult to spend. Notes printed before 2009 are usually rejected, but can be changed at the Central Bank in Dili.
Outdoor activities and adventure tourism
Swimming safety
Crocodiles are frequently seen in inland waterways and on the south coast and the eastern region. Occasionally they may be seen at beaches near Dili. Get local advice before going in the water.
See water safety on holiday from the Royal Life Saving Society.
Transport risks
Road travel
If you are planning to drive in Timor-Leste, see information on driving abroad.
You’ll need to have both the correct version of the international driving permit (IDP) and your UK driving licence with you in the car. You cannot buy an IDP outside the UK, so get one before you travel.
Hire car companies often have stricter requirements for their customers, such as a year of driving experience, a higher minimum age and holding an IDP. If you hire a car in Timor-Leste it’s likely you’ll have to hire a driver as well.
Driving and road conditions
Roads are generally in poor condition and accidents, particularly involving motorbikes and scooters, are common.
Main routes are often single-track mountain roads, which can deteriorate quickly and become impassable, particularly during the rainy season from November to April.
Outside Dili, travel in convoy whenever possible because of the lack of emergency services, poor road conditions and cars driving without lights at night.
Sea travel
There have been incidents of piracy on the waters around Timor-Leste. Consider taking precautions against piracy attacks.
Extreme weather and natural disasters
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards.
Rainy season
The rainy season in Timor-Leste normally runs from November to April. Heavy rains can cause flash flooding and landslides. Monitor local and international weather updates from the World Meteorological Organisation. Take extreme care when walking on flooded pavements or roads in Dili. Uncovered manholes can lead to injuries or drowning.
Earthquakes
Earthquakes are a risk in Timor-Leste, although there has not been a significant one since 2005. The US Federal Emergency Management Agency website has advice about what to do before, during and after an earthquake.
