This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Timor-Leste as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Timor-Leste to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around Timor-Leste
For information on entering Timor-Leste, see Entry Requirements.
The Timorese authorities have declared a State of Emergency until 11:59pm, 4 October 2020.
New laws have been introduced to enforce measures to prevent, control and mitigate COVID-19 transmission in Timor-Leste. This prohibits all activities which involve groups of people, including meetings, demonstrations, social, religious, sporting and cultural events.
You are required to wear a protective mask covering your mouth and nose. Regular hand washing is encouraged and a safe distance of at least 1.5 meters must be observed.
Health
Detection and treatment of the disease in Timor-Leste will be difficult, given the limited healthcare available. There is a risk that the healthcare system will come under significant strain as coronavirus spreads. Medical evacuation may not be available or be very expensive.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Timor-Leste.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Timor-Leste, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
