Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Bolivia on the TravelHealthPro website.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International Travel
Flight restrictions from Europe have been lifted. Passengers arriving from all countries require a PCR test taken up to 72 hours before flying and is required for everybody over 5-years of age to enter Bolivia. On arrival you must quarantine for 10 days, and pay for a PCR test on the 7th day of quarantine. Tourists must show proof of medical insurance that will cover the cost of COVID treatment.
Check specific requirements with your airline.
Land, river and lake border crossings remain closed.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Bolivia.
Returning to the UK
Check what you must do to travel abroad and return to England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Bolivia
The following quarantine measures apply nationally:
Schools are gradually opening. In public places you must maintain 1.5m distance from other people and use facemasks, including outside.
Visas
If you are in Bolivia and your entry stamp is about to expire, inform the British Embassy’s consular section by sending your details to lapaz.escalations@fcdo.gov.uk.
Accommodation
Most hotels are now open with distancing measures in place.
Healthcare in Bolivia
There is currently very limited capacity in Bolivian hospitals due to the Coronavirus pandemic, and tourists may not be able to access the public health care system.
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Bolivia.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Bolivia
We will update this page when the Government of Bolivia announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Bolivian national vaccination programme started in April 2021 and is using the Sinopharm, Sputnik, Janssen (Johnson and Johnson) and AstraZeneca vaccines. The Government of Bolivia has stated that British nationals who are legally resident in Bolivia are eligible for vaccination if they choose to join the programme.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in Bolivia, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact the British Embassy. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
