This page has information on travelling to Bolivia.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport from the UK, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Bolivia set and enforce entry rules. If you’re unsure how Bolivia’s entry requirements apply to you, contact its UK embassy, high commission or consulate.
All travellers
According to the new decree 4574, all foreign residents and tourists must register their home or tourism address online. Tourists should have a hotel or hostel booking on arrival for their first night in Bolivia.
If you’re fully vaccinated
If you have been fully vaccinated, at least 14 days before you enter Bolivia, you’ll need to show a printed or digital copy of the vaccine certificate.
Proof of vaccination status
Bolivia will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 vaccination record and proof of COVID-19 vaccination issued in the Crown Dependencies. Your final vaccine dose must have been administered at least 14 days prior to travel. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
You should make sure the UK COVID Pass is accessible to you in both digital and paper formats when entering the country.
If you’re not fully vaccinated
If you’re not fully vaccinated, you’ll need to show proof of a negative PCR test, taken no more that 72 hours before boarding. This applies to everyone over 5 years of age. Alternatively, you’ll need to show proof of a negative antigen test, taken no more than 48 hours before boarding.
If you’ve had COVID-19 in the past year
If you’re not fully vaccinated but have tested positive for COVID-19 in the last year, you can enter Bolivia. You will have to present a negative PCR test, taken no more than 72 hours before entering Bolivia, or a negative antigen test, taken no more than 48 hours before boarding.
Children and young people
Children aged 4 and under do not need to present a negative PCR test to enter the country.
If you’re transiting through Bolivia
Transiting is when you pass through one country on the way to your final destination.
Transiting through Bolivia is permitted for travellers who have a vaccination certificate, or present a negative PCR test, taken no more that 72 hours before travelling, or a negative antigen test, taken no more that 48 hours before travelling.
If you are transiting through Bolivia on your way to another country and will be passing through immigration (sometimes known as a layover), for example to stay in a hotel for a flight the next day, you’ll need to present either a vaccination certificate, a negative PCR test, taken no more than 72 hours before travelling, or a negative antigen test, taken no more than 48 hours before travelling.
Exemptions
There are no exemptions to Bolivia’s entry requirements.
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
Passport validity
If you are visiting Bolivia, your passport should be valid for 6 months from the date you arrive.
If you are a resident in Bolivia, your passport must be valid for 6 months from the date you arrive.
Check with your travel provider to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Visitor visas
British nationals don’t need a visa to visit Bolivia. The length of stay permitted on entering Bolivia is initially 90 days. 30 day stamps are often given, but you are allowed to stay for 90 days at no extra charge. The Department of Immigration has imposed an annual limit for tourists of 90 days in Bolivia without a visa. If you want to stay for a longer period seek advice from the Bolivian Embassy in London or the Department of Immigration office in La Paz at Avenida Camacho No. 1468.
Make sure you get an entry stamp when you arrive in Bolivia, otherwise you’ll have to pay a fine to leave. If you enter Bolivia overland, make sure your passport is stamped on both sides of the border, with an exit stamp from the country you are leaving and an entry stamp on the Bolivian side - you may need to ask for directions to the immigration office. The British Embassy can’t intervene in immigration issues.
Residence permits and other types of visas
The Bolivian Immigration authority (Dirección General de Migración) has introduced new procedures and requirements for British nationals applying for residence permits and other types of visas in Bolivia. New requirements now include a police certificate of criminal records from the UK, which you can get from the Association of Chief Police Officers website. If you need any documents from the UK, get them translated into Spanish and legalised at the Foreign Commonwealth and Development office in London.
Visit the Bolivian Immigration authority for more information.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are accepted for entry, airside transit and exit from Bolivia. Your ETD must be valid for a minimum period of 6 months from the date of entry into Bolivia.
