If you have a health condition, or you are pregnant, you may need specialist healthcare abroad. Check whether your destination country can provide the healthcare you may need and ensure you have appropriate travel insurance for unexpected medical evacuation or local treatment.
See the Coronavirus travel health and Healthcare sections in the Coronavirus page for COVID-19 health information.
At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
The public healthcare system does not meet the same standards as the UK, and tourists may not be able to access the public health system as it is already overstretched. There are private clinics in all main cities that work with international insurance. It is very important to have travel insurance in Bolivia, as payment is required to receive treatment.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Local medical care
You can buy most medicines at pharmacies in the cities, but brand names can be different. It is best to know the generic name of the drug. Many drugs are available without prescriptions. Drugs for mental health conditions require a prescription. There are many pharmacies in Bolivian cities, clearly signed as “farmacias”.
Certain medications prescribed for personal use in the UK are treated as narcotics in Bolivia, with severe penalties for import or export without a valid prescription from a doctor. You should refer to the list of controlled substances that are considered narcotics in Bolivia. If you have a pre-existing medical condition, carry a letter from a doctor describing the medical condition and any prescribed drugs. If you bring medicines with you, make sure they are in their original containers and clearly labelled.
Foreign nationals aren’t entitled to free medical treatment in Bolivian public hospitals. Public hospitals tend to be crowded and often don’t meet UK standards. Private healthcare facilities that work with international insurance companies are available in major cities. Some of the tourist destinations in remote areas of Bolivia only have basic medical facilities. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation.
If you have a pre-existing medical condition, carry a letter from a doctor describing the medical condition and any prescribed drugs. If you bring medicines with you, make sure they are in their original containers and clearly labelled.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 118 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
Health risks
The police have discovered widespread distribution of fake medicines in Bolivia. You should ask your travel agent, doctor or hotel for recommendations on reputable pharmacies.
UK health authorities have classified Bolivia as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For more information and advice, visit the website of the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
Yellow fever vaccine is recommended to travellers 9 months of age and older travelling to areas below 2,300m east of the Andes Mountains. These areas include the entire departments of Beni, Pando, and Santa Cruz, and some areas in the Chuquisaca, Cochabamba, La Paz and Tarija departments. Yellow fever vaccine may not be suitable for some individuals so you should seek further advice from your GP, practice nurse or private travel clinic.
Some areas have been designated as ‘high risk’ for yellow fever. When outbreaks occur, the government sets up vaccination points at police checkpoints. At each of these, you may be vaccinated if you do not hold a valid yellow fever vaccination certificate.
Dengue Fever is common to Latin America and the Caribbean and can occur throughout the year. Rain and flooding can lead to an increase in dengue carrying mosquitoes, leaving affected areas more vulnerable to dengue breakouts. Malaria is also common in lowland tropical areas (Beni and Pando) and the area known as Chaco in the south (Yacuiba, Paracari). Cases of Dengue in areas of Santa Cruz have been much higher than normal in 2022.
Local authorities have declared a health alert in the department of Santa Cruz due to a number of confirmed cases of Chikungunya virus. You should take steps to avoid being bitten by mosquitoes.
Altitude sickness is a risk in parts of Bolivia, including in La Paz and the Salar de Uyuni salt flats. More information about altitude sickness is available from TravelHealthPro (from the UK’s National Travel Health Network and Centre).
