Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

Bolivia’s land borders are closed and all flights (domestic and international) are suspended. There are currently no commercial options available to leave Bolivia.
UK special flight
Booking for UK special flights for British tourists, short term visitors and their direct dependants to return to the UK on 4 April has now closed. There are currently no further special flights organised from Bolivia.
This travel advice will be updated with further information on any future special flights and other options to leave Bolivia as soon as this is available. Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British Embassy on Twitter and Facebook.
Future options
The British Embassy Bolivia is in contact with airlines, the Bolivian authorities and other governments to make sure commercial options for returning to the UK are available as soon as possible.
This travel advice will be updated when departure options become available.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
If you cannot leave Bolivia at this time, you should:
follow the advice of local authorities, including local measures to help minimise your risk of exposure to coronavirus
find accommodation that’s suitable for your needs.
keep in regular contact with family and friends at home, so they know you are safe and well
observe the curfew and go out only when permitted
See more information and advice about staying where you are if you cannot return to the UK
Your journey home
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British Embassy on +591 2 2433424.
The Embassy cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone. This page will be updated when departure options become available. To get the latest information, sign up for travel advice email alerts.
Further information
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
