

Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Bolivia
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Bolivia, terrorist attacks cannot be ruled out.
Crime
Protecting your belongings
Petty crime is common in central La Paz, in other popular tourist destinations, on buses and in crowded areas. Do not leave your bag or other belongings unattended. Always keep your passport, money and other valuable items in a safe place. On night buses, use a money belt under your clothes for important documents and credit cards; theft can occur when you are asleep.
Violent crime
There has been an increase in robberies from people taking taxis in Santa Cruz and La Paz. If you use a taxi:
seek local advice and use established companies
order the taxi by phone – ‘radio taxis’ have the telephone number and the name of the taxi company on the roof
check for a sticker on the windscreen or windows – registered taxis should display one
do not get into a taxi already carrying other passengers
Ignore anyone offering help at taxi stands and bus terminals and watch your belongings. Thieves work in teams to distract their victims.
Attacks on lone travellers taking motorbike taxis have been reported at tourist sites such as Rurrenabaque.
Political Situation
Protests, marches and demonstrations can occur with little prior notice. If they occur, you should move away from the area and remain in a safe place. Stay alert to developments and pay attention to instructions from local authorities.
To reduce any risk: 
avoid large gatherings and protests
stay alert and monitor local media
take the advice of local authorities or tour operators
be wary of unverified, unofficial information
allow extra time to reach your destination
Criminal Kidnaps
Tourists, especially those travelling alone, are at risk of ‘express kidnapping’ in Bolivia.  These are short-term, opportunistic abductions aimed at extracting cash from the victim. Victims may be held hostage for up to several days while criminals use stolen bank or credit cards.
Foreign visitors are particularly vulnerable when entering Bolivia at overland border points with Peru, Chile and Argentina. If you’re travelling from the town of Copacabana to La Paz, try to use a direct bus.
There have been several incidents at the Cementerio General area in La Paz and in the Sopocachi area of La Paz.
Express kidnappers sometimes impersonate police officers to target foreigners. They have used fake police ID cards, uniforms and even police stations to fool victims. One of the criminals pretends to be a friendly tourist. A fake police officer then approaches and asks for passports and other information. The impostors persuade the victim to get into a taxi driven by another criminal, where they rob them, sometimes by taking them to ATMs to withdraw money.
Call the Tourist Police on 800-14-0081 (toll-free) if you suspect impostors are targeting you. The police cannot search you without a written order from a state prosecutor.
Be aware of your surroundings and always let someone you trust know your whereabouts, especially after dark. If you are a victim of kidnapping, follow the kidnapper’s instructions.
Sexual assault
There have been rape and sexual assault incidents at clubs and hostels. Be cautious if you’re approached by strangers. Lock your room when you return to your hotel or hostel.
See advice for women travelling abroad.
Prison tours
Avoid prison tours. They’re illegal and unsafe. There are no guarantees for your safety inside prisons.
Laws and cultural differences
Personal ID
Police and immigration officials sometimes carry out ID checks. Carry copies of the photo page from your passport and the Bolivian entry stamps. Leave the original document in a safe place.
Illegal bars
There are illegal bars in Bolivia. If the police find you at one, you may be detained for questioning, particularly if drugs are found at the premises. Legal bars close at 3am.
Illegal drugs and prison sentences
Bolivia is the world’s third largest producer of cocaine. There are harsh penalties for those caught trafficking or in possession. The minimum sentence is 8 years and prison conditions are very poor. Never leave luggage unattended when departing the country and avoid any contact with illegal drugs.
Ayahuasca ceremonies
Ayahuasca is a traditional plant used in ‘spiritual cleansing’ ceremonies by indigenous communities in Bolivia, primarily in the Amazon region, but also near La Paz. At these ceremonies people consume a brew containing dimethyltryptamine (DMT), a hallucinogenic drug. It is not illegal to consume this brew, but its interaction with existing medical conditions is not well understood. People have suffered serious illnesses and in some cases death after consuming it. Some Ayahuasca retreats are in remote areas, making it difficult to get medical help.
Using cameras and binoculars in remote areas
Be careful travelling with cameras and binoculars in remote areas, particularly in coca-growing areas such as the Chapare and the Yungas, where people can be suspicious of anyone taking photographs. 
Check before taking photographs of local people.
LGBT+ travellers
Same-sex sexual activity is not illegal. However, same-sex relationships are frowned on by many Bolivians, more so in the Altiplano than in Santa Cruz, where attitudes tend to be more liberal.
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Outdoor activities and adventure tourism
Adventure activities in Bolivia include mountain biking, salt flat tours and jungle expeditions. There are no official minimum standards for tour operators. Get local advice and only use reputable companies. Check your travel insurance policy covers you for the activities you’re planning.
If you’re mountain biking on the so-called ‘Death Road’, from La Paz to Coroico through the Yungas Valley, make sure the bikes are in good condition. Check your guide is carrying safety equipment and first-aid kit.
Transport risks
Road travel
Blockades have been announced on many roads in Bolivia from Monday 16 September 2024.  Please check local advice before travelling, and do not attempt to cross blockades
If you are planning to drive in Bolivia, see information on driving abroad.
You’ll need to have both a 1949 international driving permit (IDP) and your UK driving licence with you in the car to drive in Bolivia. You cannot buy an IDP outside the UK, so get one before you travel.
Road travel can be dangerous due to poor road conditions and low driving standards. Serious accidents happen on the main tourist routes. Some of Bolivia’s main highways are paved but most roads are unpaved rough tracks.
During the rainy season (November to March) there is a risk of landslides and roads can be blocked. Check road status updates from the Bolivian road authority (in Spanish) and get local advice before you set out.
Vehicles are often not well maintained. Four-wheel drive vehicles are often needed, especially during the rainy season. Broken-down vehicles with no warning lights are a frequent hazard on roads at night.
Buses and taxis
Several recent accidents involving public transport, especially long-distance buses, have affected British people. Bus drivers drive for longer than would be permitted under European laws.
Many taxis and most bus companies do not meet European standards and rarely have seatbelts.
Road blockades
Groups often use road blockades as a form of protest, without warning. Avoid large crowds and demonstrations, and do not attempt to cross blockades. Blockades can disrupt public transport at very short notice. Strikes may result in widespread road blockades, including on roads to and from airports. Check road status updates from the Bolivian road authority (in Spanish) to see which roads are blocked.
Air travel
Many of Bolivia’s airports lack safety and rescue capability. Airports outside the departmental capitals are less likely to possess fire and rescue equipment.
Lake and river travel
The boat trips on Lake Titicaca offer boats that are often very basic. The same is true of boats used for river excursions in jungle areas. Check life jackets are provided.
Extreme weather and natural disasters
Flooding and landslides
From 20 February 2024 there are red alerts for flooding throughout Bolivia due to torrential rains. Check local advice before travelling by road.
Floods and landslides are common, particularly in mountainous areas during the rainy season (November to March). Roads are often impassable for days at a time.
