Coronavirus guidance is being updated.
Read what you can and cannot do

This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Bolivia as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Bolivia to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Registering with the British Embassy
If you are stuck in Bolivia, send your contact details to the Consular Section at the British Embassy, by email to lapaz.escalations@fco.gov.uk. Note that, owing to travel restrictions, there is limited consular assistance that the Embassy can provide, particularly outside La Paz.
Moving around in Bolivia
From 11 May, Bolivia will implement ‘dynamic quarantine’. Towns and cities will be classified as high, medium or moderate risk based on coronavirus data. Different quarantine restrictions will apply depending on the designated risk level, which the Bolivian government will re-assess every seven days.
Risk levels for different towns and cities in Bolivia can be found on this Bolivian Government wesite
Restrictions for each risk level are as follows:
High (“alto”) risk
People between the ages of 18 and 65 are allowed to go outside on foot to buy food, one day per week between 6am to 2pm. The day you can go outside is determined by the final number of your ID card or passport, as follows:
Monday: 1 and 2
Tuesday: 3 and 4
Wednesday: 5 and 6
Thursday: 7 and 8
Friday: 9 and 0
Nobody may go outside on Saturday or Sunday. No private or public vehicles may circulate, except with government permission. No public transport will be available.
Medium (“medio”) Risk
People may travel to and from work between 6am to 3pm, Monday to Friday. Motor vehicles can be used only with government authorisation. Private buses that are provided by employers and have government authorisation to circulate, bicycles and motorbikes may be used to get to work. No public transport will be available.
People aged between 18-65 and not working may go outside between 9am and midday, Monday to Friday, up to 500m from their residence. Children may also go outside for one hour only under these conditions, if accompanied by a family adult or tutor under 65 years old.
On Saturdays, people aged between 18-65 may go outside on foot between 9am and 11am, up to 500m from their residence, if their ID card or passport number ends in 0, 2, 4, 6 or 8.
On Sundays, people aged between 18-65 may go outside on foot between 9am and 11am, up to 500m from their residence, if their ID card or passport number ends in 1, 3, 5, 7 or 9.
A curfew will be in place between 5pm and 5am everyday.
Moderate (“moderado”) Risk
People may travel to and from work between 6am and 4pm, Monday to Friday. Some public transport and private transport will be authorised.
Children and those over 65 years old may go outside Monday-Friday between 6am and midday for two hours, up to 500m their residence. Children must be accompanied by adults or tutors under 65 years old.
At weekends, people aged between 18-65 may go outside between 9am and midday up to 500m from their residence.
A curfew will be in place between 7pm and 5am everyday.
Regardless of risk level, schools will remain closed and public events suspended. In public places people must maintain 1.5m distance from each other and use facemasks at all times in public places, including outside.
Banks will continue to open during limited hours from Monday to Friday. Food delivery will be permitted between 9am and 10pm.
Penalties for breaching these conditions include fines and imprisonment.
Visas
If you are stuck in Bolivia and your entry stamp is about to expire, inform the British Embassy’s consular section by sending your details to lapaz.escalations@fco.gov.uk.
Accommodation
If you’re in Bolivia, you should find secure accommodation until the state of emergency ends, flights resume and borders open.
Health
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Bolivia.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Bolivia and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. This is a last resort option for those most in need and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact the British Embassy. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
