The FCDO advises against all but essential travel to:
the whole of Bolivia based on the current assessment of COVID-19 risks.
Visitors who have been in or transited through Bolivia in the previous 10 days cannot enter England. British and Irish nationals, and third country nationals with residence rights in the UK arriving in England from Bolivia will be required to quarantine in a hotel. Different rules apply for arrivals into Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland.
From 1 January onwards people with residence rights include: holders of Indefinite Leave to Remain; holders of existing leave to enter or remain (i.e those with biometric Residence permits) or an entry clearance/visa that grants such leave e.g. students, workers, etc (excluding visit visas); holders of EU Settlement Scheme (“EUSS”) leave; those who have rights of entry under the Withdrawal Agreements (including returning residents with a right of residence under the EEA Regulations and EEA frontier workers); family members of EEA nationals with rights under the Withdrawal Agreement.
Travel to Bolivia is subject to entry restrictions
The government has announced that flights from Europe will now be suspended until 15 March 2021. More measures may be taken at short notice
UK citizens will not be allowed to enter on a tourist visa if you have been in Europe in the last 14 days
UK nationals with residence in Bolivia will need a negative PCR test to enter, and will need to fill in a form stating where they will isolate for 14 days
You should check specific requirements with your airline. Land, river and lake border crossings have been opened by Bolivian authorities, but Paraguay is the only neighbouring country that has opened its borders so far.
See Entry requirements.
Preparing for your return journey to the UK
If you’re returning to the UK from overseas, you will need to:
provide your journey and contact details before you travel
check if you need to self-isolate on your return
If your return journey to the UK transits another country, you should check whether it is subject to a travel ban or any other additional requirements. If so, contact your travel provider.
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
If you’re planning travel to Bolivia, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCO’s guidance on foreign travel insurance.
For information about COVID-19 vaccines, see the Coronavirus page.
You should continue to avoid large crowds and public demonstrations, don’t attempt to cross blockades, and pay close attention to developments via local media and this travel advice. If you’re intending to travel within Bolivia, you should plan your travel carefully, regularly check the viability of your plans and be prepared to change them at short notice. See Safety and security
40,106 British nationals visited Bolivia in 2017. Most visits are trouble free.
There is a risk of ‘express kidnappings’. Take care when travelling around Bolivia, particularly when you first arrive. If you take a taxi, use a registered company. See Crime
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Bolivia, attacks can’t be ruled out. See Terrorism
Carry a photocopy of your passport, including the personal details, entry stamp and disembarkation card with you at all times in case it is requested by immigration officials or the police. See Local laws and customs
UK health authorities have classified Bolivia as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For more information and advice, visit the website of the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
Parts of Bolivia, including La Paz are at high altitude. See Health
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.
