!
Warning
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to parts of Bolivia.

Your travel insurance could be invalidated if you travel against advice from the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO).
Areas where FCDO advises against all but essential travel   
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to the Chapare region of Cochabamba Department including Villa Tunari and highway routes 4 and 24 that pass through Chapare.  
Find out more about why FCDO advises against travel.  
Road blockades and transport strike
Since 22 October there have been a number of blockades in place across much of the country with the situation changing daily.  Check Bolivian news websites before travelling and do not attempt to cross blockades in a motor vehicle or on a motorbike.  Pedestrians are not usually prevented from crossing blockades but exercise caution before doing so.  There are petrol and diesel shortages across the country with extremely long queues forming at service stations in anticipation of deliveries. 
For tourist excursions, please check with your operator for any restrictions imposed before travelling. If necessary, taxi drivers at El Alto International Airport may know routes into La Paz that are unaffected by blockades.  The cable car (Mi Teleférico) in La Paz and El Alto continues to operate without any restrictions.  Blockades have led to fresh food shortages in La Paz, which has restricted the availability of meat, chicken, fruit, and vegetables.
Before you travel
No travel can be guaranteed safe. Read all the advice in this guide. You may also find it helpful to: 
see general advice for women travellers
read our guide on disability and travel abroad
see general advice for LGBT+ travellers
read about safety for solo and independent travel
see advice on volunteering and adventure travel abroad
Travel insurance
If you choose to travel, research your destinations and get appropriate travel insurance. Insurance should cover your itinerary, planned activities and expenses in an emergency.
About FCDO travel advice
The Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) provides advice about risks of travel to help you make informed decisions. Find out more about FCDO travel advice. Get travel advice updates 
Sign up to get email notifications when this travel advice is updated.  
Follow and contact FCDO:    
travel advice on X 
travel advice on Facebook 
Travel Aware on Instagram
