Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Dominica on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Dominica.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements. You should contact local authorities for information on testing facilities.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Dominica
On arrival and within the first seven days in country, you must take only transportation from a certified COVID-19 Taxi operator.
There are private taxis and car rental available at the Douglas Charles and Canefield airports and elsewhere Car rental should be arranged ahead of time. You will be required to wear a face mask at all times on public transport in Dominica. You should maintain a distance of 6 feet apart from others, and frequent hand sanitising is mandatory.
Accommodation
A number of hotels and guest houses are re-opening on a limited basis for business. Each will be certified by government health inspectors that it is compliant with newly introduced health protocols. Some tour operators have re-opened for business. You can only stay in ‘Safe in Nature’ certified accommodations or in Government operated quarantine for the first seven days in country. A fee structure is in place.
Public spaces and services
Businesses, shops, offices, churches, sports facilities and beauty salons are now operating normally without restriction, except for health protocols (physical distancing, hand sanitising, wearing face masks). A maximum of 199 persons may gather together at any one time once the organizer has received permits and approval. Single visitors are allowed to hospital patients and nursing home residents. Beaches and rivers can be freely accessed and sporting activities allowed.
Healthcare in Dominica
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Dominica
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
The Dominica Ministry of Health, Wellness and New Health Investment has a coronavirus hotline staffed by public health officers on 1 800 219 (in Dominica) or +1 767 448 2151.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Dominica
Wherever possible British nationals should aim to be vaccinated in the country where they live. As further information is available about the national vaccination programme, this page will be updated. Sign up to get email notifications.
Dominica is offering the Oxford/Astra-Zeneca vaccine free of charge to anyone in the country who wishes to have a vaccination. Contact your local healthcare clinic for further information.
The Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) is the UK authority responsible for assessing the safety, quality and efficacy of vaccines. It has authorised the Pfizer/BioNTech, Oxford/AstraZeneca and Moderna vaccines for temporary supply and use in the UK. Find out more about MHRA approval for these vaccines.
British nationals living overseas should seek medical advice from their local healthcare provider in the country where they reside. Information about vaccines used in other national programmes, including regulatory status, should be available from the local authorities. This list of Stringent Regulatory Authorities recognised by the World Health Organisation may also be a useful source of additional information. Find out more information about the COVID-19 vaccines on the World Health Organization COVID-19 vaccines page.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
For more information, go to the Dominica Government Information Service on Facebook.
