This page has information on travelling to Dominica. Check what you must do to return to the UK.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport from the UK, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Dominica set and enforce entry rules.
All travellers
Entry to Dominica
Dominica has published travel protocols setting out its entry requirements in relation to COVID-19. Visit the Discover Dominica website for full details. You should read these before your departure and monitor the pages on a regular basis as the requirements may change at short notice. Masks should be worn at all times during your travel to Dominica and your passage through the airport. Social distancing and hygiene protocols are in place.
All travellers from the UK must present on arrival either:
a valid COVID-19 PCR negative test result taken no more than 72 hours in advance of your flight’s arrival, or
a valid Rapid Antigen negative test result taken within 48 hours in advance of your expected arrival time in Dominica
No Rapid Antigen Home Tests or self-administered test results will be accepted.
Arriving passengers should complete an online questionnaire, 24 hours before arrival.
Test results can also be updated through this form. The form can also be completed on arrival in Dominica if you have difficulties uploading your test results. You must present a valid negative test result in order to board your flight to Dominica.
From 4 April there is no requirement for pre-arrival testing for vaccinated travellers nor for vaccinated travellers to submit documentation prior to travel.
If you are unvaccinated, you should also pay XCD$100 online for the Rapid Antigen Test which you will have to undergo on arrival. You should not use the NHS testing service to get a test in order to facilitate your travel to another country. You should arrange to take a private test.
From 4 April, unvaccinated travellers should arrive with a negative PCR test taken no more than 72 hours before arrival or a negative Rapid Antigen test taken no more than 48 hours before arrival
If you’re fully vaccinated
On arrival, once your documents have been validated, you will be considered medically cleared. No quarantine or further testing required.
Proof of vaccination status
You must present proof that you have been fully vaccinated to enter Dominica.
Dominica will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 vaccination record and proof of COVID-19 vaccination issued in the Crown Dependencies. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
If you’re not fully vaccinated
On arrival, you will undergo a health assessment and take a Rapid Antigen Test. If positive, you will be transported to the government isolation facility (COVID Care Complex) in Portsmouth. If negative, you will transported to a Safe-in Nature-certified property for a minimum of 5 days’ quarantine, at your own expense.
You will be required to undergo a second PCR test 5 days after arrival. If the result of that second test is negative, you will not be subject to further quarantine. If the result is positive, you may be transported to the government isolation facility in Portsmouth until you recover. Family groups can be kept together. The government aims to return results within 48 hours. While you are in the government isolation facility, you will need to pay for your own meals.
From 4 April, there is no requirement for unvaccinated travellers to submit documentation prior to arrival in Dominica, and Unvaccinated travellers should arrive with a negative PCR test taken no more than 72 hours before arrival or a negative Rapid Antigen test taken no more than 48 hours before arrival.
Visit the Discover Dominica website for full details.
Children and young people
Children aged 17 and under who are travelling with fully vaccinated travellers form the same household, can follow the rules for fully vaccinated travellers to enter Dominica.
The online questionnaire should be submitted for all children aged 1 and above. Pre-arrival test results need to be uploaded for all children aged 2 and above.
From 4 April, Children 12 and under will assume the status of parents or guardian.
If you’re transiting through Dominica
Transiting is when you pass through one country on the way to your final destination.
Dominica is not a transit point for travel.
Exemptions
You should enquire with the Dominican Ministry of Tourism, International Transport and Maritime Initiatives prior to travelling if you believe you should be exempted from any of Dominica’s COVID-19 requirements. Email your query to the Tourism Customer Service Concierge on DAconcierge1@dominica.gov.dm or DAconcierge2@dominica.gov.dm.
The Discover Dominica website also has a COVID-19 hotline number.
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
You should check with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Passport validity
Your passport should be valid for the proposed duration of your stay.
Visas
British passport holders don’t need a visa to visit Dominica.
On entry, you will be granted a specified period to stay. If you wish to stay longer, you must apply and pay for an extension of stay through the Dominica Immigration Department.
It is an offence to overstay the entry period or to work without a work permit.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents are accepted for entry, airside transit and exit from Dominica.
Entry requirements may change from time to time. You should check with the Office of the High Commissioner for the Commonwealth of Dominica before you travel.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
Returning to the UK
Departure tax
There is a departure tax for leaving Dominica. As of 1 April 2019 the amount increased to 86 East Caribbean Dollars or US$33. In most cases, the tax is included in the cost of your plane ticket, but you should check with your travel agent before travelling to confirm.
Check what you must do to return to the UK.
