Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

We are assessing British nationals’ interest in a chartered flight from Dominica. If you are looking to return to the UK, let us know by registering your details on our online form.
There are currently no commercial flight options available to return to the UK from Dominica.
Regional airline LIAT has suspended all operations and there are no direct flights from Dominica to the UK.
What to do
As you cannot leave Dominica at this time, you should:
follow the advice of local authorities, including local measures to help minimise your risk of exposure to coronavirus. The Dominica Ministry of Health, Wellness and New Health Investment has a coronavirus hotline staffed by public health officers on 1 800 219 (in Dominica) or 1 767 448 2151.
find accommodation that’s suitable for your needs.
keep up to date with the latest information from the Government Information Service
keep in regular contact with family and friends at home, so they know you are safe and well. See more information and advice about staying where you are if you cannot return to the UK.
Future travel options
We are assessing British nationals’ interest in a chartered flight from Dominica. If you are looking to return to the UK, let us know by registering your details on our online form.
This travel advice will be updated when departure options become available.
Where possible, British Nationals in Dominica should monitor the following social media platforms for the latest available information on departure options: Facebook Twitter Instagram
You should also sign up for travel advice email alerts
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have [exhausted all other options for getting funds,] (/government/publications/financial-assistance-abroad/financial-assistance-abroad#if-you-need-financial-help-abroad)you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Your journey home
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British High Commission on 1 246 430 7800.
The High Commission cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone. This page will be updated when departure options become available. To get the latest information, sign up for travel advice email alerts.
Further information
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
