

Terrorism  
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.        
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad. 
Terrorism in Dominica 
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Dominica, attacks cannot be ruled out. 
Crime 
The crime rate in Dominica is low, but you could be at risk walking alone away from the main roads, particularly after dark.  
Make sure your accommodation is secure and your documents and valuables are in a safe place. This also applies if you are staying on a yacht.  
Use licensed taxis, and make sure you have a safe way to return from late-night street parties during the festival season. Keep car doors locked when driving and do not stop if pedestrians try to flag down your vehicle.  
Laws and cultural differences  
Laws on clothing 
It is illegal for anyone, including children, to dress in camouflage clothing.  
Illegal drugs and prison sentences 
There are severe penalties for drug offences. Pack all your luggage yourself and do not carry anything through customs for anyone else. 
LGBT+ travellers 
Attitudes towards the LGBT+ community are mostly conservative throughout the Caribbean. Certain same-sex sexual acts are illegal. LGBT+ travellers should be mindful of local attitudes and be aware that showing affection in public may attract unwanted and negative attention. 
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers. 
Outdoor activities and adventure tourism  
Swimming safety 
Take care when swimming. Currents can be stronger than they look and not all beaches have lifeguards or warning flags.  
Hiking and mountaineering 
Before hiking to the Boiling Lake, check with guides that it is safe to do so. You can also contact the Office of Disaster Management or see their Facebook updates. 
Transport risks  
Road travel  
If you are planning to drive a hire car or a UK vehicle, see information on driving abroad. You need to arrange car rental ahead of your arrival. 
You must show your UK driving licence to get a temporary Dominican driving licence. Car hire companies will usually help with this.   
The roads on the island are sometimes narrow and in poor condition. Pedestrians often walk on the roads and drivers swerve to avoid potholes or fail to indicate before they pull out. There are few road signs and it’s easy to get lost. If you have an accident, call the police and do not move your vehicle. 
The main highway from Douglas Charles Airport is prone to landslides after bad weather and there are sheer drops where the road has fallen away. Avoid driving on this road at night.  
Taxis and minibuses 
Taxis are not metered, but there are standard fares for most destinations. Registered taxis have a windscreen sticker that reads: ‘Nature Island’s Standard of Excellence’ followed by a number.  
To avoid being overcharged, agree the fare before you set off. You can usually also pay in US dollars.  
You can tell your taxi driver if you want to be driven at slow speeds, but minibuses are likely to drive over the speed limit.  
Extreme weather and natural disasters 
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards.
Hurricanes  
The hurricane season normally runs from June to November. Tropical storms and hurricanes can develop suddenly and unexpectedly. Monitor the US National Hurricane Center or the World Meteorological Organization for hurricane warnings.  
Check the Government Information Service for local instructions, including any evacuation orders. 
Wildfires 
During especially hot and dry periods a single spark or flame can start a wildfire. Report fires to the emergency services immediately. 
Earthquakes 
Earthquakes are a risk in Dominica and tremors are frequently felt. If there is an earthquake, local authorities should direct you. The US Federal Emergency Management Agency website has advice about what to do before, during and after an earthquake. 
