This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Dominica as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Dominica to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Dominica
For information on entering Dominica, see Entry Requirements
Dominica has put measures in place to limit the spread of coronavirus. You should follow the advice of local authorities, including local measures to help minimise your risk of exposure to coronavirus. The Dominica Ministry of Health, Wellness and New Health Investment has a coronavirus hotline staffed by public health officers on 1 800 219 (in Dominica) or 1 767 448 2151.
A State of Emergency is in place but restrictions are being gradually eased. Emergency regulations have been extended from 11 May to 28 May. A pass system is in operation, obtainable from the Dominica Police.
From 7pm to 5am Monday to Friday and from Saturday 6pm to Monday 5am a total lockdown continues in place unless offering or accessing an essential service. On Mondays to Saturdays people can access or provide retail services including supermarkets, medical, gas stations, clothing and textile, appliances and electronics stores. Law and accountancy firms are permitted to offer their services.
It is mandatory to wear masks outside the home. Beaches and rivers may be accessed 8am to 5pm Monday to Saturday but no alcohol consumption, picnics, music or gatherings of more than 10 people are permitted. Schools, gyms, beauty salons, bars and churches remain closed.
For more information, go to the Dominica Government Information Service on Facebook
Health
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Dominica
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Dominica, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
