From 4 July, Dominica is exempt from the FCDO advice against all non-essential international travel. This is based on the current assessment of COVID-19 risks.
Travel to Dominica is subject to entry restrictions
Borders and the Douglas Charles airport are now open for nationals and non-nationals arriving in Dominica
Arriving passengers must complete an online questionnaire 24 hours before arrival, and have a PCR swab test with a negative result taken up to 72 hours before arrival
On arrival a Rapid Diagnostic Test will be taken. If negative five days quarantine follows in an approved facility. If positive isolation in a government facility follows.
See Entry requirements for more information before you plan to travel.
Preparing for your return journey to the UK
If you’re returning to the UK from overseas, you will need to:
provide your journey and contact details before you travel
check if you need to self-isolate on your return
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
If you’re planning travel to Dominica , find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCDO’s guidance on foreign travel insurance.
The Eastern Caribbean Central Bank has announced that it will be withdrawing 1 cent and 2 cent coins and they will no longer be legal tender from 30 June.
The hurricane season normally runs from June to November. You should follow and monitor local and international weather updates from the US National Hurricane Center and follow the advice of local authorities, including any evacuation orders. See Natural disasters.
Hurricane Maria passed over Dominica in September 2017, causing widespread damage to communications, buildings and infrastructure. Life in Dominica has largely returned to a state of normality. Water and electricity has been restored, but some homes remain damaged. Communications can be intermittent in some parts of the island. All the main roads have been cleared, although heightened care is needed when navigating roads that were badly damaged by the hurricane and in the more remote areas of the island.
Consular support may be limited in Dominica as there is no British High Commission office.  However, the British High Commission in Bridgetown, Barbados, can provide consular support.
UK health authorities have classified Dominica as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For more information and advice, visit the website of the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
Most visits to Dominica are trouble-free but incidents of crime do occur. See Crime
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Dominica, attacks can’t be ruled out. See Terrorism
