Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Azerbaijan on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
There are a limited number of commercial flights to and from Baku. Check with your travel agent about routes and availability of tickets, and check FCDO Travel Advice for information on transiting other countries.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Azerbaijan.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK. You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements. A list of laboratories testing for Coronavirus accredited by the State Health Agency (TABIB) can be found on Azerbaijan Airlines’ (AZAL) website.
You can find more information on departure from Azerbaijan in the ‘Entry requirements’ section.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Public places and services
The Cabinet of Ministers of Azerbaijan has issued a decree announcing the special quarantine regime has been extended until 6am on 1 November 2021.
There are currently no restrictions on travel around Azerbaijan. Most businesses and services are open. Almost all public places are only accessible for those with a ‘COVID-19 Passport’ showing proof of vaccination or immunity. Supermarkets and chemists are exempt. British nationals vaccinated through the Azerbaijani vaccination programme can access a ‘COVID-19 Passport’ via the local medical authorities (TABIB). Travellers to Azerbaijan, who have a ‘COVID-19 passport’ issued from their country of residence, can also present this either in a digital format, or as a printed certificate, to gain access to public places. The wearing of masks outdoors is not mandatory. The wearing of masks indoors remains mandatory. Failure to follow mask-wearing rules could incur a 100 AZN fine.
The Baku Metro and public transport services within Baku are running as normal. Most long distance train services remain suspended.
Local lockdowns
Local lockdowns could be applied at very short notice. You should monitor local news outlets regularly for the latest updates.
Accommodation
Hotels are open in Azerbaijan.
Healthcare in Azerbaijan
A number of medical facilities are allocated specifically for coronavirus patients. Most people are given the option to self-isolate or be treated at home. Only those with the most serious symptoms are usually taken to hospital, but this will depend on individual circumstances. For instance, visitors to Azerbaijan who don’t have accommodation available for self-isolation may also be taken to hospital. If you think you might have symptoms of coronavirus you should call 103 or 804.
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Azerbaijan.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Azerbaijan
We will update this page when the Government of Azerbaijan announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Azerbaijan national vaccination programme started in January 2021 and is using the Pfizer-Bio Tech, AstraZeneca, Sinovac and Sputnik V vaccines. The Government of Azerbaijan has stated that all citizens normally resident in Azerbaijan, including British nationals, that are covered by state or private health insurance will be offered a COVID-19 vaccination as part of the national vaccination programme.
Further information and the option to book an appointment is available through https://its.gov.az/page/e-services-2.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in Azerbaijan, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
