The information on this page covers the most common types of travel and reflects the UK government’s understanding of the rules currently in place. Unless otherwise stated, this information is for travellers using a full ‘British Citizen’ passport.
The authorities in the country or territory you’re travelling to are responsible for setting and enforcing the rules for entry. If you’re unclear about any aspect of the entry requirements, or you need further reassurance, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
You should also consider checking with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Entry rules in response to coronavirus (COVID-19)
Travelling to Azerbaijan
There are a limited number of commercial flights to and from Baku. Check with your travel agent about routes and availability of tickets, and check FCDO Travel Advice for information on transiting other countries.
The use of a medical mask will be required at all times whilst at the airport and on the flight. It is mandatory to keep the mask on at all times except for specific requirements for example at border control, at the request of an airport official or whilst eating.
Azerbaijan’s land borders with all neighbouring countries remain closed.
Screening
All passengers travelling to or from Azerbaijan will require a negative COVID-19 test. The test itself can be taken more than 48 hours before your flight, but the certificate showing the negative test result will only be accepted if issued within 48 hours of the flight’s arrival time in Baku. You should seek to have your test results via email and printed off, or a paper certificate. You may be tested again for COVID-19 and have your temperature checked on arrival into Azerbaijan. You should not use the NHS testing service to get a test in order to facilitate your travel to another country. You should arrange to take a private test.
Anyone who displays symptoms of COVID-19 on arrival in Azerbaijan will be directed to the medical station at the airport. From there the case will be reported to the Emergency Medical Services.
Ticket holders for UEFA EURO 2020 matches scheduled in Baku will qualify for a quarantine exemption if they present proof of a recent negative COVID-19 test result. Other visitors will still need to self-isolate for 14 days. Cabinet of Ministers decree no. 377 from 2020 provides a provision to end self-isolation if you are tested again both 7 and 8 days after arrival and the results are negative. You must arrange and pay for the tests yourself with a private provider. You should keep hold of any negative certificate should you be asked to provide evidence of a negative test by the authorities. Many providers offer the option to be tested at home, as you are required to self-isolate until you are re-confirmed as being COVID-19 negative you should choose this service.
Foreign citizens who do not provide a negative COVID-19 test certificate on arrival may be refused entry to Azerbaijan and returned to their country of origin at their own expense – alternatively they may be required to enter state quarantine facilities.
If you are arriving to Azerbaijan via a third country (i.e. not directly from the UK) you will still be required to produce a COVID-19 negative test certificate on arrival even if your airline does not request one for boarding part of your journey.
Testing on departure
All passengers travelling to or from Azerbaijan will require a negative COVID-19 test. The test itself can be taken more than 48 hours before your flight, but the certificate showing the negative test result will only be accepted if issued within 48 hours of the flight’s arrival time in Baku. You should seek to have your test results via email and printed off, or a paper certificate.
A list of laboratories testing for Coronavirus accredited by the State Health Agency (TABIB) can be found on Azerbaijan Airlines’ (AZAL) website.
If you test positive for COVID prior to your flight departing Azerbaijan you will need to self-isolate for 14 days. You will probably be required to relocate to accommodation at Baku’s Olympic village, or another state quarantine facility, even if you have alternative accommodation. Check with your insurance provider before entering Azerbaijan as to whether they will cover these costs.
Regular entry requirements
Visas
British nationals travelling to Azerbaijan need to get a visa in advance. Those who can demonstrate that they have proof of a ticket for a UEFA EURO 2020 match can receive a visa on arrival in Azerbaijan. However, to avoid delays on arrival you are strongly recommended to apply for a visa in advance through the Asan Visa (e-Visa) service.
The Asan Visa service is currently only available to British nationals visiting Azerbaijan for the UEFA EURO 2020 tournament and who can demonstrate proof of a ticket on arrival in Azerbaijan. E-Visas normally take 72 hours to process. An urgent service is available for an additional fee.
E-visas are normally valid for 30 days and are single entry. If you had extended your e-visa validity in Azerbaijan due to the current COVID-19 pandemic, this extension is now considered to be valid for an indefinite period until further notice. Once this policy changes you will need to leave the country shortly after and apply for a new visa, or the relevant residence permit. This extension applies to both 30 day and 60 day visas.
You can still apply for a visa through the Azerbaijan Embassy-affiliated Visa Service Centre in the UK. Currently, only Work and Private visas are being issued. The requirements for these visa types can be found on the official Visa Centre website . You should apply for a visa at least one month ahead of your intended travel date. All applicants must provide confirmation they have tested negative for COVID-19. Visit the official Visa Centre website for more information.
Make sure you check the duration of your visa immediately to avoid overstaying unintentionally. Your visa should be valid when departing Azerbaijan.
For more information contact the State Migration Service email: info@migration.gov.az or visit the State Migration Service of the Republic of Azerbaijan website. Their address is:
202 Binagadi Highway
3123 Block
Binagadi district
Baku city
AZ1114
Azerbaijan Republic
e-mail: info@migration.gov.az
Telephone: +994 (0)12 562 56 23 or +994 (0)12 562 57 73
Alternatively, try the Migration Information Centre: telephone: 919 (in country calls only).
If you overstay (excluding those with permission to stay through the indefinitely extended e-visa process) you can obtain an ‘Exit Permit’ letter (an official letter giving permission to leave Azerbaijan within 48 hours) from the State Migration Service before you depart. You will be liable to a fine of between AZN300 to AZN400. You should get a receipt.
Passport validity
Your passport should be valid for a minimum period of 6 months when you enter Azerbaijan.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are accepted for entry, airside transit and exit from Azerbaijan.
Registration
If you’re staying in Azerbaijan for longer than 15 days you must register with the State Migration Service within 15 days of arrival by either visiting the State Migration Service in person or online. Hotels may provide this service for their guests, but visitors staying in apartments or private residences will have to register by themselves. Each traveller is responsible for ensuring that the registration has been completed.
If you’re staying longer than 30 days, you will need to obtain a temporary residence card unless applying to extend your visa on compassionate grounds. For more information refer to the State Migration Service.
Dual nationals
Azerbaijan doesn’t allow adults (18 years or older) to hold dual nationality. You may be refused entry, denied departure or even face criminal liability if you’re 18 years or older and are found to be holding both an Azerbaijani passport and a passport of a different nationality. If you’re a British passport holder with links to Azerbaijan (through birth or otherwise) and wish to check your nationality status contact the State Migration Service before you travel. Children under 18 years old holding a second nationality shouldn’t face any difficulties.
