At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
The UK does not have a reciprocal healthcare agreement with Azerbaijan.
Medical facilities outside Baku are very limited. You should carry a comprehensive first aid kit for any trips out of Baku. Even in Baku serious illness or injury may require evacuation to Turkey or Western Europe. Make sure your insurance covers this.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 103 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
Coronavirus
There is an ongoing global pandemic of coronavirus (COVID-19). Cases have been confirmed in Azerbaijan.
The authorities have informed us that depending on circumstances foreign nationals can be placed in quarantine or asked to self-quarantine for 14 days and that Baku-based hotels and hospitals are available for the quarantining of UK nationals. If you are quarantined you should notify the embassy immediately. Call: +994 12 437 7878 or you can reach us via Facebook.
The Azerbaijani authorities have introduced additional visa measures for British Nationals; additionally, those who have travelled to certain countries with high cases of coronavirus will be quarantined for up to 14 days. See Entry requirements
All travellers will be subject to health monitoring on arrival in Azerbaijan, and could then be subject to mandatory follow up measures aimed at preventing the spread of coronavirus. This could include being transferred to quarantine for up to 21 days. You should carry additional supplies of necessary medication and toiletries in carry-on luggage.
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
