!
Warning
FCDO advises against all travel to parts of Azerbaijan.
!
Warning
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to parts of Azerbaijan.

This section has safety advice for regions of Azerbaijan. It only covers regions where the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) has specific advice.
You should also read FCDO’s overall travel advice and safety and security advice.
South-western Azerbaijan (those regions affected by conflict in 2020 and 2023) 
The Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) advises against all but essential travel to some areas in south-western Azerbaijan, including districts in and around the region formerly known as “Nagorno-Karabakh” due to the risks from leftover military equipment and weapons from former conflict. This includes: 
the districts (‘rayons’) of Kelbajar, Lachin, Qubadli, Zengilan, Jabrayil, Fuzuli, Khojavand, Shusha, Khojali, Khankendi, Aghdam and Tartar
It is illegal to enter certain areas in south-western Azerbaijan, without the permission of the Azerbaijani authorities. Anyone who has previously visited these areas, including the town of Khankendi, without the permission of Azerbaijani authorities could be denied entry to Azerbaijan. You should contact the nearest embassy or consulate of Azerbaijan before you travel. 
Whilst tensions have calmed and the risk of further conflict has decreased, there remains a risk of unexploded weapons and landmines in south-western Azerbaijan. The Azerbaijani authorities are working to remove unexploded weapons and landmines.  
Follow Azerbaijani national government and local authorities’ advice in areas that have not been cleared of mines or unexploded ordnance. If you come across an unexploded weapon or landmine do not approach it or touch it. Make a note of where you saw it and notify the authorities on 102 or 112. Beware of more unexploded weapons or landmines nearby.
Azerbaijan-Armenia border
The border with Armenia remains closed. The FCDO also advises against all travel to within 5km of the rest of the border with Armenia. Note that this does not include the border of Azerbaijan’s Nakhchivan exclave with Armenia.
Borders with Iran and Georgia
The land borders between Iran and Azerbaijan, and Georgia and Azerbaijan are temporarily closed.
Azerbaijan-Russia border
The land border between Azerbaijan and Russia (Dagestan) is closed. The FCDO continues to advise against all travel to Russia. For further details, see FCDO’s travel advice for Russia.
