When you return you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
As of 2 July, Azerbaijan Airlines (AZAL) and Turkish Airlines will run commercial flights fly four times a week between Baku and Istanbul. Turkish Airlines flights between London and Istanbul are also operating. Tickets for flights are available through the official websites of AZAL and Turkish Airlines. Check FCO Travel Advice for Turkey for information on transiting via Turkey.
All passengers travelling to or from Azerbaijan will require a negative COVID-19 test. The test itself may be conducted before more than 48 hours prior to your flight but the certificate showing the negative test result will only be accepted if issued within 48 hours before the flight. A list of laboratories accredited by the State Health Agency (TABIB) can be found here.
If you are a resident or visitor travelling to the UK you will need to self-isolate for 14 days. You must provide your journey and contact details and not leave the place you are staying for the first 14 days except in very limited circumstances. You can find more information here. There are limited exemptions, details of which can be found here.
Future travel options
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK.
For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Your journey home: re-entering the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK. You:
need to provide your journey and contact details up to 48 hours before you’re due to arrive in the UK
are not allowed to leave the place you’re staying for the first 14 days you’re in the UK except in very limited situations (known as ‘self-isolating’)
See also the list of people who are exempt from the border rules.
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) also provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
