!
Warning
FCDO advises against all travel to parts of Azerbaijan.
!
Warning
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to parts of Azerbaijan.

This guide also has safety advice for regions of Azerbaijan.
Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.    
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Azerbaijan
Terrorists are likely to try to carry out attacks in Azerbaijan.
Terrorism attacks could be indiscriminate, including in places visited by foreign nationals, such as: 
hotels, restaurants and pubs 
energy sector facilities 
religious sites and places of worship 
shopping centres and crowded places 
embassies and government buildings 
sporting and cultural events 
transport hubs 
Stay aware of your surroundings, keep up to date with local media reports and follow the advice of local authorities.
Political situation
The political situation in Azerbaijan is generally calm, but demonstrations and opposition rallies can occur.
Avoid large gatherings and any demonstrations. They are illegal and there could be a swift response from the authorities. Monitor the media for information about possible demonstrations and be alert to local and regional developments, which may trigger public disturbances.
If you are a British journalist, make sure you are clearly identifiable.
  Armenia-Azerbaijan tensions  
Tensions between Armenia and Azerbaijan have calmed and the risk of further conflict has decreased, including in the areas of those regions affected by conflict in 2020 and 2023. The FCDO continues to advise against all but essential travel to some areas in south-western Azerbaijan due to the risks from mines or unexploded ordnance from former conflict, and advises against all travel within 5km of the border with Armenia. See Regional Risks.
Crime
Crime levels in Baku are generally low. Be alert to possible bag-snatching or mugging, particularly if you are carrying large amounts of cash or valuables. The risk is higher after dark in the centre of town. Avoid displaying large sums of money or expensive-looking valuables and do not walk alone at night.
Take extra care to guard against card skimming when paying with a credit card or withdrawing money from ATMs.
Dealing with officials
There are occasionally reports of government officials asking foreign nationals to make undocumented payments. If you think you have been mistreated by a traffic policeman or health professional, report your case to the relevant government department.
Bank card fraud  
Fraudsters can steal your card details without you noticing. Use ATMs inside banks if possible, and check ATMs on the street for signs of tampering. Keep cards in sight when paying in shops and restaurants.
Laws and cultural differences
Azerbaijan is a largely secular society, although most of the population is Muslim. Religion is usually considered a private matter.
Personal ID
Police sometimes carry out checks of identity documents. Carry your passport at all times. Keep a copy of the photo page in a safe place.
Dress code
In Baku local and foreign women usually dress in conservative western-style clothing. It is now more acceptable for men to wear shorts in Baku in the summer months. Outside of Baku it may still be frowned on and you may receive unwelcome attention.
Ramadan  
Ramadan is a holy month for Muslims. The dates vary by year and country. In 2025, Ramadan is expected to start around the end of February and finish around the end of March. You should:
check opening hours of shops and restaurants
follow local dress codes – clothing that does not meet local dress codes may cause more offence at this time
be aware that driving may be erratic, particularly when people are trying to get home at dusk.
be patient and show tolerance
Get more advice when you arrive from your tour guide, hotel or business contacts.
Illegal drugs
Possession or use of illegal drugs, including cannabis, carries severe penalties. You should expect a long jail sentence and heavy fines for possessing, using, or smuggling illegal drugs, including when transiting through the airport.
Airports in Azerbaijan have excellent technology and security for detecting illegal items. This is also used to scan the baggage of transiting passengers.
Using cameras and drones in sensitive locations
Be aware of cultural sensitivities when photographing mosques, churches and other religious sites or sites of commemoration, such as the Alley of Martyrs in Baku. If in doubt, ask for permission.
Military bases, equipment and installations in any condition are considered sensitive areas, and visitors have been detained and questioned while attempting to visit or photograph them.
If you do not have temporary or permanent residence rights in Azerbaijan, you are not allowed to import drones. Any drones will be confiscated by the State Customs Office at the port or border and returned upon departure. 
Unmanned drones cannot be rented to individuals without a valid taxpayer identification number (TIN). If you have a TIN, special permission from the Ministry of Digital Development and Transport is required. Manned drones can be rented without requiring permission.
LGBT+ travellers
While same-sex sexual activity is not illegal, LGBT+ people in Azerbaijan tend to keep a low profile. Showing affection in public is frowned upon, especially outside of Baku and among the older generation.
Holding hands or embracing between men is usually a sign of friendship.
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Transport risks
Road travel
If you are planning to drive in Azerbaijan, see information on driving abroad and read the RAC guide on driving in Azerbaijan. The guide lists driving regulations and other legal requirements you need to be aware of.
It is illegal to use right-hand-drive cars in Azerbaijan.
Inter-country road travel 
There may be delays in transporting vehicles to Azerbaijan. It is best not to pay for non-refundable  onward travel. Azerbaijan Caspian Shipping Closed Joint-Stock Company has details of onward shipment from Baku to Turkmenistan and Kazakhstan.
Licences and permits
You’ll need to have both the 1968 version of the international driving permit (IDP) and your UK driving licence with you in the car. You cannot buy an IDP outside the UK, so get one before you travel.
After one month, you will need an Azerbaijani driving licence issued through the ASAN Service Offices. You need to carry a green card as proof you’re insured to drive in Azerbaijan.
If you’re planning to hire a car, check with your car hire company for information on their requirements before you travel.
Driving conditions
Many vehicles are poorly maintained, and the standard of driving is erratic. Accidents are common, mainly due to poor or reckless driving and inconsistent enforcement of traffic rules. Drivers often ignore one-way signs.
Road closures and diversions are often unmarked. Take care when driving at night as many roads are of poor quality and badly lit. Traffic lights that are flashing amber at night mean cars can proceed with caution in either direction.
Drink-driving is a serious offence in in Azerbaijan. If you are tested and found to have any alcohol in your system, you may get a severe fine and possibly a prison sentence. 
In the winter months snowfall often causes problems. Pack your vehicle with a blanket, shovel, torch, snacks and old carpet to help if you get stuck in snow.
Taxis
Try to arrange to be picked up and dropped off as close to your hotel or apartment entrance as possible by a private or company driver, or use a known firm or taxi app.
Some visitors have reported being severely overcharged by local taxis. When using taxis, agree a fare up front, or make sure the taxi meter is switched on. Check that the taxi has working seatbelts.
Ride-hailing apps such as Uber and Bolt are widely available in Azerbaijan.
Rail travel    
If you travel by train, secure your valuables, do not leave the compartment unattended, and lock the door from the inside, if your compartment allows.
Extreme weather and natural disasters
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards.
Earthquakes
There is a risk of earthquakes across the Caucasus region, although there have been no recent serious earthquakes in Azerbaijan. The US Federal Emergency Management Agency website has advice about what to do before, during and after an earthquake.
