This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Azerbaijan as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Azerbaijan to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements
Incoming travel to Azerbaijan
As of 2 July, Azerbaijan Airlines (AZAL) and Turkish Airlines will run commercial flights four times a week between Baku and Istanbul. Turkish Airlines flights between London and Istanbul are also operating. Tickets for flights are available through the official websites of AZAL and Turkish Airlines. Check FCO Travel Advice for Turkey for information on transiting via Turkey.
All passengers travelling to or from Azerbaijan will require a negative COVID-19 test. The test itself may be conducted more than 48 hours before the flight but the certificate showing the negative test result will only be accepted if issued within 48 hours before the flight. You should seek to have your test results via email and printed off, or a paper certificate. You should expect to be tested again for COVID-19 and have your temperature checked on arrival into Azerbaijan.
You can find information from the NHS about COVID-19 tests here. Further information about testing for key workers can be found here. If you do not qualify for a test through the NHS there are private providers of tests in the UK.
Passengers whose test on arrival is negative will not be required to stay in quarantine or self-isolate, according to the state health agency (TABIB) and Foreign Ministry. However, you will still have to abide by the restrictions on movement which remain in force for everybody in Azerbaijan.
The use of a medical mask will be required at all times whilst at the airport and on the flight. It is mandatory to keep the mask on at all times except for specific requirements for example at border control, at the request of an airport official or whilst eating.
Hand luggage will not be allowed on flights incoming to Azerbaijan apart from smaller personal items such as a handbag or brief case. Check with your airline for the latest hand-luggage allowances and rules introduced to combat COVID-19 onboard your flight.
Moving around in Azerbaijan
For information on entering Azerbaijan, see Entry Requirements.
The authorities have extended the ‘quarantine regime’ in Azerbaijan to 1 August with significant restrictions in place until 6am on 5 July 2020.
Unless specifically exempted, people are not permitted to leave their places of residence in Baku, Sumgayit, the Absheron Peninsula, Ganja, Yevlakh, Masalli, Jalilabad and Lankaran unless for a permitted purpose and have SMS message authorisation or are registered in the government database.
The wearing of face masks is now mandatory in public places. There are fines for repeated violations. You can find more information about the regulations and fines here.
Any individual and their vehicle(s) working in permitted fields must be registered on to the Government database icaze.e-gov.az by their employer using an electronic signature.
You can read more information about the stricter quarantine regime here.
Visas
The Azerbaijani authorities have introduced additional visa measures for British nationals. See Visas
British nationals require a visa to enter Azerbaijan in addition to the negative COVID-19 test certificate issued within 48 hours of the departure of your flight.
If you have extended your stay in Azerbaijan due to restrictions on travel this is now considered to be valid for an indefinite period of time until restrictions on flights to and from Azerbaijan are lifted. Once the restrictions are lifted then you will need to leave the country as soon as possible and apply for a new visa, or the relevant residence permit.
Health
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Azerbaijan.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Azerbaijan, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
