Coronavirus: stay up to date
Find out how to return to the UK from Azerbaijan
See how to stay safely as a visitor if you cannot return
See coronavirus travel advice for guidance on international travel
Sign up for email alerts for Azerbaijan travel advice
The Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) is advising British nationals against all non-essential international travel at this time. Existing advice for Azerbaijan remains in place:
The FCO advise against all travel to:
Nagorno-Karabakh and the military occupied area surrounding it
within 5km of the Line of Contact
within 5km of the border with Armenia.
The Azerbaijani Government has introduced a number of measures to limit the spread of coronavirus. This includes the mandatory quarantining of all arrivals from abroad for 14 days.
From 00:00 on 6 June to 06:00 on 8 June 2020, unless specifically exempted, people are not permitted to leave their places of residence, and activity in all spheres of work, services and trade will stop in Baku, Sumgayit, Ganja, Lankaran and the Absheron Peninsula. This includes all private vehicles and public transport with the exception of emergency services and authorised organisations and institutions. Failure to follow these regulations could lead to a fine of up to 200 manats or being detained. You can read more information about these measures and any exemptions that apply here
Any individual and their vehicle(s) working in permitted fields must be registered on to the Government database icaze.e-gov.az by their employer using an electronic signature. For further details see Staying during coronavirus.
Restrictive measures are in place until at least 15 June to combat the spread of COVID-19. Many previously introduced restrictions have been relaxed or lifted, however the wearing of face masks is now mandatory in a number of circumstances. For further details see Staying during coronavirus
The Azerbaijani authorities have extended the suspension of all commercial passenger flights in to and out of Azerbaijan until at least 15 June. If you are booked on to an AZAL flight which has been cancelled you should speak with the airline or your travel agent. See Return to the UK
If you are a resident or visitor travelling to the UK after 8 June you will need to self-isolate for 14 days. You must provide your journey and contact details and not leave the place you are staying for the first 14 days except in very limited circumstances. You can find more information here. There are limited exemptions, details of which can be found here. See Return to the UK
Around 30,000 British nationals visit Azerbaijan every year, mainly on business. Most visits are trouble free.
All British nationals travelling to Azerbaijan must get a visa in advance. The Azerbaijani authorities have announced from 13 March the ASAN Visa service (e-visas) are temporarily suspended. E-visas issued before the suspension of the service but which have not yet been used for entry in to Azerbaijan have been annulled. See Safety and Security
Consular support is not available in the Nagorno-Karabakh region. Tensions between Azerbaijan and Armenia over Nagorno-Karabakh continue. Several ceasefire violations along the Line of Contact separating the opposing forces and elsewhere on the inter-state border between Azerbaijan and Armenia took place in 2018, resulting in a number of deaths and casualties. Anyone who has visited Nagorno-Karabakh without the permission of the Azerbaijani authorities will be refused entry to Azerbaijan. See Local travel
Terrorists are likely to try to carry out attacks in Azerbaijan. See Terrorism
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.
Given the rapidly changing situation, we have temporarily withdrawn a limited number of UK staff and dependants from our Embassy. The Embassy continues to carry out essential work, including providing 24/7 consular assistance and support to British people in Azerbaijan.
Take out comprehensive travel and medical insurance, including cover for medical evacuation, before you travel.
