!
Warning
FCDO advises against all travel to parts of Azerbaijan.
!
Warning
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to parts of Azerbaijan.

Your travel insurance could be invalidated if you travel against advice from the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO).
Areas where FCDO advises against travel
Azerbaijan-Armenia border
The border with Armenia remains closed. The FCDO advises against all travel to within 5km of the border with Armenia, due to tensions between Azerbaijan and Armenia. Note that this does not include the border of Azerbaijan’s Nakhchivan exclave with Armenia.
Areas where FCDO advises against all but essential travel 
South-western Azerbaijan (those regions affected by conflict in 2020 and 2023) 
The Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) advises against all but essential travel to: 
The districts (‘rayons’) of Kelbajar, Lachin, Qubadli, Zengilan, Jabrayil, Fuzuli, Khojavand, Shusha, Khojali, Khankendi, Aghdam and Tartar
You should follow Azerbaijani national government and local authorities’ advice in areas that have not been cleared of mines or unexploded ordnance.
Find out more about why FCDO advises against travel.
UK government support
Help for British nationals is extremely limited in the areas where we advise against travel.   
Before you travel
No travel can be guaranteed safe. Read all the advice in this guide. You may also find it helpful to:
see general advice for women travellers
read our guide on disability and travel abroad
see general advice for LGBT+ travellers
read about safety for solo and independent travel
see advice on volunteering and adventure travel abroad
Travel insurance
If you choose to travel, research your destinations and get appropriate travel insurance. Insurance should cover your itinerary, planned activities and expenses in an emergency.
About FCDO travel advice
FCDO provides advice about risks of travel to help you make informed decisions. Find out more about FCDO travel advice.
Get travel advice updates
Sign up to get email notifications when this advice is updated.
Follow  FCDO:
travel advice on X
travel advice on Facebook
Travel Aware on Instagram
