Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Laos on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
If you’re a British national intending to travel to Laos, you should check with your airline due to restrictions affecting all nationalities travelling from or transiting countries with community transmission of COVID-19. Departing flights are unaffected. You should sign up for email alerts for updates to this travel advice.
Commercial flights to and from Laos remain very limited. Check with your travel company for the latest information.
Lao Government COVID-19 regulations require that you inform the Embassy if you’re departing Laos. If you are leaving Laos, email BritishEmbassy.Vientiane@fcdo.gov.uk with your full name, contact telephone number, passport number, flight details and a scan or photograph of the identification page of your passport. Please contact the Embassy at least 7 working days before your departure and clearly state where in Laos you are travelling from.
The Embassy will inform the Lao Ministry of Foreign Affairs of departing British Nationals, as required by the Lao Government.
Entry and borders
The government of the Lao PDR has suspended the visa on arrival service at all international entry points. No visas are being issued to people travelling from or transiting a country with ongoing COVID-19 outbreak. However, the authorities may consider granting entry permission for foreigners (e.g. experts, technicians and foreign nationals that are needed for essential projects) who wish to travel to Laos. See Entry requirements
The closure of all customary international land borders continues until further notice.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during the COVID-19 pandemic. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Laos
Travel restrictions within Laos have been extended until 15 October 2021. According to the Lao authorities, travel including internal flights are permitted between provinces where community transmission has not been identified, in some cases a fourteen day quarantine has been implemented. Consult with provincial COVID-19 Task Forces for guidance.
You should monitor local official announcements for guidance in the latest restrictions. There may be short notice lockdowns introduced in provinces with reports of COVID-19 outbreaks.
Thailand land border
The Thai government has announced that all Thailand-Laos border crossings are restricted until further notice, including the Friendship Bridge between Vientiane and Nong Khai. Commercial goods are permitted to cross at present and there have been exemptions for medical emergencies at the discretion of the Laos and Thai medical authorities.
If you want to travel to Thailand, you must apply for permission to travel via the Royal Thai Government’s online platform. The Thai Consulate has advised that they will be closed until 30 September 2021.
You should keep up to date with the latest information on the websites of the Thai Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Royal Thai Embassy in Vientiane, and the Thai Ministry of Public Health.
Accommodation
Hotels and private rental accommodation is available throughout Laos, although a number of hotels/hostels are currently closed due to reduced tourist numbers. You should arrange accommodation in advance of travel.
Public places and services
The Lao authorities have announced changes to lockdown restrictions in provinces with no COVID-19 infections. Most businesses (including gyms, sports facilities, night markets, tourist attractions, restaurants, shopping malls, retail shops and food markets) may open if COVID preventative measures are in place. These may include providing alcohol gel, face masks being worn, 1m physical distancing and checking temperatures. However, some entertainment venues remain closed and the sale of alcohol is prohibited.
Social gatherings, weddings and traditional events of 20 or less participants are permitted.
In Vientiane Capital many of the COVID-19 prevention measures and lockdown restrictions have been extended until 15 October as community transmission remains a risk. Many businesses, restaurants (service of alcohol is prohibited), shopping malls, retail shops and food markets may open if COVID-19 prevention measures are in place. The main restrictions are:
the introduction of a zoning system in Vientiane Capital, with different parts of the city graded red, yellow or green - restrictions are heaviest in the red areas. These zones may change over time
curfew applied in Vientiane Capital from 9pm to 5am in red zones, except for delivery of goods, food delivery and medical equipment, ambulances, fire trucks, emergency rescues, Task Force Committee and authorised duty vehicles
travel in and out of Vientiane Capital is prohibited from infected areas
closure of all indoor and outdoor sports complexes and a ban on any type of sports competition activities. Outdoor exercise in public areas where there is an ongoing community outbreak, is not permitted
meetings, events or gatherings of more than 20 people are prohibited
entertainment venues, karaoke venues, bars, internet cafes, cinemas, spas, casinos and gaming shops are closed
entrance to some commercial premises requires that you are fully vaccinated, you should confirm in advance the requirements for entry and ensure that you carry the vaccine evidence required by the business
massage services, barber shops and Beauty Salons may not operate after 7pm
wholesale and retail shops, supermarkets, minimarts, fresh markets and food vendors may not operate after 8pm
Further measures may be introduced at short notice, including measures applying to individual provinces. You should follow the advice of the Lao authorities.
Healthcare in Laos
For contact details of English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
If you think you have COVID-19 symptoms, you should self-isolate and dial +856 20 5406 6777 to speak to a duty officer in Laos or English, or the free hotline numbers 155 and 166.
Keep in regular contact with family and friends at home, so they know you’re safe and well. Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Laos.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Laos
We will update this page when the Government of Laos announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Laos national vaccination programme started in November 2020 and is using the AstraZeneca, Sinopharm, Pfizer-BioNTech and Janssen (Johnson and Johnson) vaccines. The Government of Laos has stated that British nationals resident in Laos are eligible for vaccination if they choose to join the programme. You can find further details on when and how to register on the Vaccinate Laos website.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in Laos, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
