This page has information on travelling to Laos. Check what you must do to return to the UK.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport from the UK, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Laos set and enforce entry rules.
All travellers
The government of the Lao PDR has suspended the visa on arrival service at all international entry points. However, the Lao authorities may consider granting special entry permission for foreigners (e.g. experts, technicians and foreign nationals that are needed for essential projects) who wish to come to Laos.
Entry procedures for Laos visa-holders:
all foreigners must register for a QR code at laogreenpass.gov.la and then obtain a letter of permission from the appropriate ministry or the Consular department of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs; a completed Health Declaration form; and a ‘Fit to Fly’ Certificate issued no more than 72 hours prior to travel. You should not use the NHS testing service to get a test in order to facilitate your travel to another country. You should arrange to take a private test
all negative cases have to complete 48 hours quarantine at designated locations and after a negative result complete 7 days isolation at their own residence (with all expenses covered by individuals or their organisations/companies). Business groups or investors in Lao PDR can carry out their work plan after the initial 48 hours
The application form for the health declaration is available on the official website for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
Due to the impacts of coronavirus the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will continue to extend visas in country and be flexible if visas cannot be extended before the due date for operational reasons because of the new regulations. Be aware that if you do not renew your visa within 90 days new regulations set a fine of 2 million LAK, deportation and a ban on returning to Laos.
Screening on arrival
There is compulsory testing for COVID-19 on arrival in Laos at your own expense. Those testing positive may be admitted to hospital for treatment, depending on symptoms and severity.
Enhanced health screening is in place at border crossings between Laos, Thailand, Cambodia, and Vietnam where restricted access is allowed. You should allow additional time to include this possibility and check with your airline if travelling by air.
Anybody travelling to Laos with a fever, cough or difficulty breathing, and a travel history from coronavirus affected countries will be isolated in hospital and tested. The hospitals being used are Mittaphab, Maho-sot, Setthathirath and the National Military Hospital (103).
Quarantine requirements
All arrivals testing negative for COVID-19 after 48 hours quarantine at designated locations will have to complete 7 days quarantine at their own residence (with all expenses covered by individuals or their organisations/companies). A mandatory tracking/medical device is fitted on arrival (a rental fee applies) to be worn during quarantine. All travellers must have insurance covering COVID-19; a suitable policy is available for purchase on arrival.
If you’re fully vaccinated
See all all travellers, regardless of COVID-19 vaccination status.
Proof of vaccination status
Laos will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 recovery and vaccination record and proof of COVID-19 vaccination issued in the Crown Dependencies. Your final vaccine dose must have been administered at least 14 prior to travel. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
You do not need proof of vaccination to enter Laos.
If you’re not fully vaccinated
To enter Lao PDR you must have a certificate of vaccination evidencing being fully vaccinated within the last six months.
If you’ve had COVID-19 in the past year
You can use the UK’s proof of COVID-19 recovery record to demonstrate proof of COVID-19 recovery when entering Laos.
Requirements are still the same regardless if you have had COVID-19 in the past year.
Children and young people
Requirements are the same regardless of age. See the ‘All travellers’ section.
If you’re transiting through Laos
There are currently no transit options via Laos.
Exemptions
Exemptions to Laos’ entry requirements may apply for:
Close family members of seriously or terminally ill patients
People attending the funeral of a close family member
Parents visiting any children who are minors
Travellers must contact your nearest Lao Embassy before entering Laos.
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
Passport validity
Your passport should have at least 6 months’ validity remaining on your date of entry into Laos.
Additionally, be aware that a number of airlines will now only allow boarding of flights to Laos if you have two blank pages in your passport.
Check with your travel provider to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are accepted for entry, airside transit and exit from Laos. If you’re planning to enter Laos using a UK ETD you should contact the nearest Lao embassy or consulate to get the appropriate visa before you travel.
If your passport has been lost or stolen, you must report the loss or theft to the nearest police station and get a police report. You will then need to get a certificate of loss from the Immigration Department in Vientiane, which usually takes 1 to 2 working days.
After getting an ETD from the British Embassy, you will need to get an exit visa from the Lao Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which takes up to 3 days.
Returning to the UK
Check what you must do to return to the UK.
