At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Coronavirus
If you are visiting or living in Laos, and intend to leave, you should do so as soon as possible. The number of international flights out of Laos is reducing rapidly as a result of travel restrictions. There are increasing restrictions on travel through Thailand, including in transit through Bangkok airport, which came into effect on Sunday 22 March. All passengers will need to present a medical certificate signed by a medical professional confirming no evidence of the coronavirus infection in the previous 72 hours, and also present evidence of medical insurance of no less than US$100,000 which covers COVID-19. Failure to meet these requirements will mean passengers are not permitted to board their flight even if they are transiting airside to another international destination. Contact your airline or insurance company for more details.
The Thai Government has announced that all Thai-Lao border crossings will close from midnight local time on 22 March 2020 until further notice, including the Thai-Lao Friendship Bridge between Vientiane and Nong Khai which will close at 22:00 local time on 22 March. British nationals visiting or living in Laos and intending to cross into Thailand by land should make the crossing immediately.
It is currently still possible to leave Laos by some international air routes and the land borders with Cambodia and China, but there is no guarantee this will continue. Follow Travel Advice for Laos and register for email alerts, as well as UKinLaos on Facebook. The British Embassy in Vientiane remains open.
Travelers should be aware that there is enhanced health screening at border crossings and departure airports. You should allow additional time to include this possibility and check with your airline if travelling by air.
With immediate effect, the Government of the Lao PDR has suspended the visa on arrival and eVisa service at all international entry points for a period of 30 days for all nationals.
Anybody travelling to Lao PDR with a fever, cough or difficulty breathing, and a travel history from coronavirus affected countries, will be isolated in hospital and tested. The hospitals being used are Mittaphab, Mahosot, Setthathirath and the National Military Hospital (103).
Anybody travelling to the Lao PDR who has visited a country with more than 100 coronavirus cases, visited provinces in neighbouring countries with more than 3 cases, or had close contact with a confirmed coronavirus case, will need to self-quarantinefor 14 days.
If you have a travel history to an outbreak area and develop symptoms after entering Laos, call +856 20 5406 677 to speak to a duty officer in Laos or English, or the free hotline number 166.
The Golden Triangle Special Economic Zone in Bokeo Province currently has restrictions on entry. You should confirm with local authorities the current situation before you attempt to travel through the zone.
The Lao Government has closed schools, bars, entertainment venues and public gatherings for 30 days from 19 March. You should monitor and follow the instructions of local authorities.
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available on the TravelHealthPro website.You can find more information about on the TravelHealthPro country page.
Health risks
UK health authorities have classified Laos as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For information and advice about the risks associated with Zika virus, visit the National Travel Health Network and Centre website
Dengue and malaria are endemic and visitors should take steps to avoid being bitten by mosquitos through the use of deterrents and mosquito nets, whilst anti-malarial treatments are recommended in some areas.
Water borne, food borne and other infectious diseases are common and serious outbreaks occur from time to time.
There have been outbreaks of avian influenza (also known as bird flu) in poultry in Laos. The risk to humans is very low, but as a precaution you should avoid contact with domestic, caged or wild birds and make sure poultry and egg dishes are thoroughly cooked.
Air quality
Regional air pollution, up to unhealthy levels, can affect areas of Laos, and may aggravate heart, lung or respiratory conditions. Children, the elderly and those with pre-existing medical conditions may be especially affected. You can find advice on air quality and possible mitigation on the World Health Organization (WHO) website. You can check air quality levels for some cities in Laos in real time on the World Air Quality Index website.
Medical treatment
Medical care in Vientiane is extremely basic and outside the capital there are no reliable facilities to deal with medical emergencies. Medical evacuation is difficult to organise and very expensive. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation.
There are no proper mental health services or care facilities in Laos. Professional treatment including medication is difficult and expensive to obtain. Emergency mental health treatment is likely to require transfer to a country offering appropriate facilities. Always make sure your travel insurance policy covers any pre-existing mental health conditions.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 1195 or 030 5257239 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment. You may be asked to pay for the use of an ambulance and any treatment you may require in advance. Usually you will get a receipt that can be used to claim on your insurance.
Voluntary ambulance services also operate in Vientiane free of charge:
Vientiane Rescue (telephone: 1623 or (0)20 5666 8825)
Lao Red Cross Rescue (telephone: +856 (0)20 5996 6111 or (0)20 2200 5563.
Note that these phone lines and emergency services telephone numbers are not staffed by English speakers. Make sure anyone attending an accident is wearing a uniform identifying themselves as ‘Vientiane Rescue’ or ‘Lao Red Cross’. There have been reports of bogus companies who aren’t trained in first aid charging for attending accidents.
