Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

There are currently no commercial options available to return to the UK from Laos. We know this is concerning for British people trying to leave Laos. The UK government is working closely with airlines, the Lao authorities and other governments to make sure options are available for you to return to the UK as soon as possible.
The British Embassy Vientiane is issuing updates on the UKinLaos Facebook page with the latest available information on departure options for British nationals wishing to leave Laos.
A flight organised by the French government will be flying from Vientiane to Paris at 0940 on Monday 13 April. For further details on how to request a booking please consult the UKinLaos Facebook page and monitor our France travel advice for updates.
The British Embassy Vientiane is issuing updates on the UKinLaos Facebook page with the latest available information on departure options for British nationals wishing to leave Laos.
Air travel
Thai Airlines and Thai Smile flights between Vientiane and Bangkok, were suspended with effect from 27 March 2020. You should check any future booking with your airline.
Flights via China will not be permitted in the near future, as China has effectively stopped non-Chinese nationals from entering the country. You should check with the airline for the latest information on transit arrangements in China. You should also monitor our China travel advice for updates.
The British Embassy in Vientiane and others are pressuring airlines to continue to schedule flights. You should keep checking airline websites for the latest information, and to book flights directly. Not all third party providers will have up to date information for new flight options.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Travel via Thailand
As of 1 April leisure travellers are not be able to enter or transit Thailand until further notice, due to the declaration of a state of emergency. Please check the Thailand travel advice for further details.
The Thai Government has announced that all Thai-Lao border crossings are closed until further notice, including the Thai-Lao Friendship Bridge between Vientiane and Nong Khai. Only commercial goods are permitted to cross for the near future.
If you cannot leave Laos at this time, you should:
follow the advice of local authorities, including local measures to help minimise your risk of exposure to coronavirus
find accommodation that’s suitable for your needs.Please be aware a number of hotels/hostels have closed at this time.
keep in regular contact with family and friends at home, so they know you are safe and well
See more information and advice about staying where you are if you cannot return to the UK.
Arrival in the UK
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Further information
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
