!
Warning
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to parts of Laos.

Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Laos
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Laos, attacks cannot be ruled out.
Political situation
Specific events or political disputes may trigger violent protests. You should avoid any demonstrations or large gatherings of people. Keep yourself informed of local developments.
Crime
Protecting yourself and your belongings
Petty crime can occur in tourist areas and around ATMs. Try to have someone with you and do not carry your bank cards and cash in the same bag. Keep a copy of your passport somewhere safe.
Travellers regularly report random bag snatches, often by people on motorcycles. Hold your bags on the side away from the road, and do not have valuables on display.
People have reported incidents where they are approached and followed when alone. Be alert to your surroundings, trust your instincts and if you think you’re being followed move to an area where there are other people. Consider sharing your planned route in advance and avoid quiet or less-travelled areas.
Safes in hotels and guesthouses are not necessarily secure. Use your own lock where possible. Take care of your possessions if you’re travelling overnight on public transport.
Be particularly careful travelling at night by bicycle or motorcycle. Stick to well-used, well-lit roads and carry a personal alarm if possible, especially if you’re alone.
Sexual assault 
There is a risk of harassment when travelling alone. We recommend you use a known taxi service; one booked by your accommodation or one of the local taxi apps. You should:
confirm the driver’s identity and license plate matches when the vehicle arrives 
share your journey details with a friend or use the apps sharing feature if available 
be wary of drivers claiming to be registered with app companies and trying to pick up passengers on the street
Motorcycle scams
Do not leave your passport as a deposit or guarantee when hiring motorcycles. There have been reports of rental companies arranging for their motorcycles to be deliberately stolen or damaged, then keeping passports and demanding high fees. Make sure your travel insurance covers medical and other costs that arise from motorcycle accidents.
Reporting a crime
Call the Tourist Police in Vientiane on 021 251 128.
Local law enforcement responses to crimes, even violent crimes, are often limited. Foreigners attempting to report crimes have reported finding police stations closed, emergency telephone numbers unanswered, or police with no transport or authorisation to investigate crimes at night. If the police do attend, they may ask you to pay fuel and telephone costs. Ask the staff at your accommodation for help with reporting a crime.
Drink and food spiking
Both male and female tourists have reported having their drink or food spiked with drugs and in some cases been assaulted. Never leave food or drink unattended. Be cautious about accepting drinks from strangers at bars, clubs, restaurants and parties.
Methanol poisoning
There have been deaths and cases of serious illness caused by alcoholic drinks containing methanol. Methanol has been used in the manufacture of counterfeit replicas of well-known alcohol brands or illegal local spirits, like vodka. You should take care if offered, particularly for free, or when buying spirit-based drinks. If labels, smell or taste seem wrong then do not drink.
Affected drinks may include:
local spirits, including local rice or palm liquor
spirit-based mixed drinks, such as cocktails
counterfeit brand-name bottled alcohol in shops or behind the bar
Laos authorities have issued an order prohibiting the sale and consumption of Tiger Vodka and Tiger Whisky due to concerns about them being a risk to health. You should avoid consuming these products.
To reduce the risk of methanol poisoning:
buy alcoholic beverages only from licensed liquor stores, bars, clubs, restaurants and hotels
avoid home-made alcoholic drinks
check bottle seals are intact
check labels for poor print quality or incorrect spelling
Methanol is tasteless and odourless. It can rapidly lead to serious illness. Long-term effects may include blindness and permanent damage to the Central Nervous System. Coma and death may occur following exposure.
TravelHealthPro lists the symptoms of methanol poisoning. For more information about spiking and methanol poisoning, read Travel Aware’s information on Spiking and methanol poisoning.
Seek urgent medical attention if you or someone you are travelling with show signs of methanol poisoning.
Laws and cultural differences
Legal system
The Lao legal system operates differently from the UK, and the standard of prisons is very poor.
If you are under criminal investigation, you can be detained for long periods without evidence or official charges. There can be long delays before you can contact lawyers, British Embassy officials or family. Legal representation is far below UK standards.
Illegal drugs and the death penalty
Possession, trafficking and manufacture of any illegal drugs are serious offences in Laos. This includes cannabis. British nationals have been caught carrying cannabis while transiting through Laos.
The Laos authorities have a zero-tolerance policy to drug offences. Possessing drugs, even in very small quantities, carries severe penalties, including:  
arrest and detention
a long jail sentence if charged and convicted
a possible death penalty for drug trafficking
Legal processes before court hearings can be long and expensive. It can take many months for a case to go to trial.
Criminal gangs in the UK and elsewhere are known to coerce people into carrying drugs across borders. Do not allow yourself to be persuaded.
Airports in Laos have security equipment and procedures in place for scanning and detecting illegal substances, including cannabis. This is also used to scan the carry-on and checked-in baggage of transiting passengers.
It is important to be aware of your rights if you are detained by the police. See our guidance for those detained or imprisoned in Laos.
Police often raid venues known to be frequented by foreigners. You may have to take a urine or blood test if there is a suspicion you have used drugs. You will be arrested if the test is positive.
Using cameras and binoculars in secure areas
Photographing or entering any military site without an official invitation is prohibited and you may be arrested or detained. Avoid photographing bridges or airfields.
Getting permission for special travel projects
You should get permission from the local district authorities for any travel seen as out of the ordinary, such as extensive photography, or scientific research of any kind.
Relationships with Lao nationals
The Lao government prohibits sexual relationships between foreign and Lao nationals, except when the parties have been married in accordance with Lao family law. You must ask permission for marriage or engagement to a Lao national in a formal application to the Lao authorities.
Penalties for failing to register such a relationship can be up to 5,000 US dollars fine and possible imprisonment. It is not unknown for Lao authorities to demand entry into hotel rooms or guesthouses where they suspect this regulation is being broken.
Smoking and e-cigarette bans 
While cigarettes are common, the use of e-cigarettes (vapes), heated tobacco and shisha (water-pipe tobacco) are illegal. You could be fined or imprisoned for possessing, using them, importing, selling, purchasing or exporting them.
Dress codes
When you visit any temples and religious sites, your shoulders and knees should be covered, whether you are male or female.
It is not culturally appropriate to walk around in public wearing swimming costumes after leaving waterfalls, rivers or swimming pools.
LGBT+ travellers
There are no legal restrictions on same-sex sexual relations in Laos. Proud To Be Us Laos raises awareness about LGBT+ rights and HIV/AIDS among the LGBT+ community. More information can be found on the Proud To Be Us Laos Facebook page.
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Outdoor activities and adventure tourism
Safety and maintenance may not meet the standards you find in the UK. Risks include:
remote areas that are difficult for rescue services to reach
flooding, swollen rivers and landslides, especially during the rainy season
lower standards than in the UK
River rafting and water activities
Travel on the Mekong River can be dangerous, especially when water levels are low, and sandbanks may be close to the surface  
White-water rafting, kayaking, tubing and other water-based activities, including swimming in the Mekong, are dangerous and there have been incidents of drowning and serious injuries  
Operators may not give the necessary safety advice; you cannot expect warning signs to tell you about currents or rough stretches of water  
Check that lifejackets are provided.
See water safety on holiday from the Royal Life Saving Society.
Extreme or adventure sports, including paragliding/motoring, climbing, off-road driving and hot air ballooning
Be aware equipment may not meet UK safety and insurance standards.
Make sure:
you use reputable properly insured operators and insist on training 
adequate safety precautions are in place 
your travel insurance covers all the activities you want to undertake 
you read the contract you are offered and be clear about who is responsible for all parts of the venture.  
if you choose an organisation that prepares properly, you are more likely to stay safe
Road travel 
If you are planning to drive in Laos, see information on driving abroad.
You’ll need to have both the 1949 version of the international driving permit (IDP) and your UK driving licence with you in the car. You cannot buy an IDP outside the UK, so get one before you travel.
Police may stop your car at any time, particularly in the evening, and ask for ID. You should stop at checkpoints and roadblocks unless you are waved on. 
Driving conditions
Roads in Laos are in poor condition and vehicles are not maintained to UK standards. Travel after dark significantly increases the risk of an accident, as vehicles often do not have lights. Livestock including water buffalo also stray on to the roads causing accidents.
Road accidents and safety
If you’re involved in a road accident, you will have to pay compensation for third-party property damage and injury, even if you’re not at fault. Generally, the Lao authorities will overwhelmingly find in favour of Lao citizens, regardless of the situation. Lao insurers only meet a small proportion of the costs of an accident and will not cover this compensation.
Motorbike rentals may not supply helmets, so budget to purchase one locally. Take extra care when using public transport or shared vehicles, as they can be overcrowded and unsafe. You can report road accidents to a dedicated police number +856 20 5666 9090.
China-Laos Expressway
The Vientiane to Vang Vieng section of the China-Laos Expressway is the first contained high-speed road in Laos, with posted speed limits between 80 and 120km/h. Take care when using this road, as some local users will be unfamiliar with this type of carriageway.
Landmines and unexploded weapons
Landmines and other unexploded weapons are a hazard throughout Laos and kill a number of people each year. Keep to main routes in rural areas, and do not pick up metal objects. This risk is higher after flash floods or landslides during the monsoon season.
Extreme weather and natural disasters
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards. 
Monsoon
The rainy season in Laos normally runs from May to October, at the same time as the typhoon season in south-east Asia. The season started early in 2025 with higher-than-expected levels of rain. This means that river levels are above average and heavy rainstorms may cause unexpected and serious flooding. Be aware of local advice, social media coverage and follow the advice of the local authorities.
Mountain areas are vulnerable to landslides in the rainy season and the Mekong’s river basins and surrounding areas are likely to be flooded. Meteorologists predict that tropical storms could be more forceful and more frequent in the future, this can amplify monsoon storms and rainfall. Away from river basins there is a high risk of flash flooding causing falling trees, damage to buildings and transport infrastructure; be aware landslides may expose undiscovered UXO.
During the monsoon season local road transport is often disrupted due to conditions. Cross country journeys can often take substantially longer than posted schedules and have limited mobile phone coverage. Travel with extra water and food supplies.
The Mekong River Commission posts official updates on the Mekong River. Travel to some provinces can be seriously disrupted during this time. Monitor local news and check World Meteorological Organization weather reports.
