This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Laos as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Laos to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Laos
For information on entering Laos, see Entry Requirements. The Lao authorities further eased lockdown measures from 1 June.
Most businesses including restaurants, shops, food markets, gyms/spas, sports facilities, night markets, cinemas, and tourist attractions are able to reopen, provided that COVID preventative measures are in place. These include providing alcohol gel, face masks being worn, maintaining 1m physical distancing, and checking temperatures.
Some venues where the 1m social distancing rule cannot be applied, such as karaokes and casinos for entertainment, remain closed.
Social gatherings of more than 50 people remain prohibited. All travel restrictions between provinces have now been lifted. Public transport including domestic flights and buses have resumed services.
Further measures may be introduced at short notice. You should follow the advice of the Lao authorities.
Visas
The Department of Immigration reopened on 4 May and foreigners are required to maintain valid visas for the period of their stay in Laos. If your visa expired during the lockdown period, you will be required to pay the regular fee for any days without a visa since 9 April in addition to the cost of any extension. Immigration departments will re-impose overstay fines after 8 May.
Accommodation
Find accommodation that’s suitable for your needs. Please be aware a number of hotels/hostels have closed at this time.
Health
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Keep in regular contact with family and friends at home, so they know you are safe and well. Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Laos.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Laos, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
See more information and advice about staying where you are if you cannot return to the UK.
