British nationals visiting or living in Laos, and wanting to leave, should make arrangements to leave as soon as possible if they can. Thai Airlines and Thai Smile flights between Vientiane and Bangkok, were suspended with effect from 23 March 2020. Travellers should check any booking with their airline. All Laos-Thai border crossings including the Friendship Bridge in Vientiane are closed, only goods transports are permitted for the near future.
There are increasing restrictions on travel through Thailand, including in transit through Bangkok airport, which came into effect on Sunday 22 March. All passengers will need to present a medical certificate signed by a medical professional confirming no evidence of the coronavirus infection in the previous 72 hours, and also present evidence of medical insurance of no less than US$100,000 which covers COVID-19. Failure to meet these requirements will mean passengers are not permitted to board their flight even if they are transiting airside to another international destination. Contact your airline or insurance company for more details.
The Thai Government has announced that all Thai-Lao border crossings are closed from midnight local time on 22 March 2020 until further notice, including the Thai-Lao Friendship Bridge between Vientiane and Nong Khai which will close at 22:00 local time on 22 March.It is currently still possible to leave Laos by some international air routes and the land borders with Cambodia and China. Follow Travel Advice for Laos and register for email alerts, as well as UKinLaos on Facebook. The British Embassy in Vientiane remains open.
With immediate effect, the Government of the Lao PDR has suspended the visa on arrival and eVisa service at all international entry points for a period of 30 days for all nationals.
If you’re planning to visit or transit other countries in the region, you should monitor the travel advice pages of your destinations for the latest information on entry restrictions in response to coronavirus. See Health
The monsoon season in Laos runs from May to October. You should be aware of elevated risks of flooding and landslides during this period, particularly if travelling by road as maintenance and repair standards differ to the UK, you should take additional care and undertake research. See Natural disasters
The Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advise against all but essential travel to Xaisomboun province.There have been armed clashes along with attacks on infrastructure by anti-government groups reported as recently as November 2019 in Xaisomboun Province
Unexploded ordnance in rural areas is a real and ongoing danger. Take care when travelling around Laos. See Local travel
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Laos, attacks can’t be ruled out. See Terrorism
Carry an ID document or passport at all times. You will receive a heavy fine if you don’t present ID on request. See Local laws and customs
UK health authorities have classified Laos as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For information and advice about the risks associated with Zika virus, visit the National Travel Health Network and Centre website
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission. Consular support is limited in parts of Laos where we advise against all but essential travel.
Take out comprehensive travel and medical insurance before you travel.
