!
Warning
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to parts of Laos.

Your travel insurance could be invalidated if you travel against advice from the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO).
Areas where FCDO advises against all but essential travel
Xaisomboun Province
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to Xaisomboun Province. There are intermittent attacks on infrastructure and armed clashes with anti-government groups.
Find out more about why FCDO advises against travel.
Storm Kajiki
The Department of Meteorology and Hydrology in Laos has issued a warning on 24 August for Storm Kajiki, which is expected through 25-26 August, bringing heavy rainfall across Laos, with very heavy rain likely in the central and upper northern region of the country.  Monitor local news and check World Meteorological Organization weather reports. The Mekong River Commission posts official updates on the Mekong River.
Land borders/ crossing with Thailand and Cambodia 
There were reports of fighting including rocket and artillery fire on 24 July between Thailand and Cambodia, at several locations including along the border arears with Laos. Casualties have been reported, as well as evacuations of areas close to the border. Land borders/crossings between Thailand and Cambodia have been suspended. Some tourist destinations in border areas such as the Khao Phra Wihan/Preah Vihear temple, the Ta Kwai/Ta Krabey temple and the Ta Muen Thom/Tamone Thom temple are currently closed. 
There are also unexploded landmines in the border area. 
British nationals in Southern Laos travelling to Cambodia or Thailand , should carefully consider which land border crossings to use. British Nationals should also carefully consider any travel they have planned close to the Lao border adjoining the affected areas. 
See our travel advice for Thailand and Cambodia.
Before you travel
No travel can be guaranteed safe. Read all the advice in this guide. You may also find it helpful to: 
see general advice for women travellers
read our guide on disability and travel abroad
see general advice for LGBT+ travellers
read about safety for solo and independent travel
see advice on volunteering and adventure travel abroad
Travel insurance
If you choose to travel, research your destinations and get appropriate travel insurance. Insurance should cover your itinerary, planned activities and expenses in an emergency.
About FCDO travel advice
The Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) provides advice about risks of travel to help you make informed decisions. Find out more about FCDO travel advice.
Get travel advice updates
Sign up to get email notifications when this travel advice is updated.
Follow FCDO:   
travel advice on X
travel advice on Facebook
Travel Aware on Instagram
