Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Nepal on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
The Government of Nepal has announced it will permit weekly flights by some major carriers; these will connect to major hubs, but may be heavily oversubscribed. You should liaise with your airline or travel provider for additional information or for re-booking. Alternatively, contact one of the following travel agents: President Travel, Megabyte and Everest Miracle Travel. These should be able to tell you upcoming flights and availability. Only some tickets allow you to travel all the way through to the UK without entering immigration in any of the transit countries on your route. You may want to speak to your agent to ensure you are getting one of these options.
When inward flights resume, the Government of Nepal may continue to require specific conditions of entry for all passengers originating from or transiting the UK. Those seeking to enter Nepal were previously required to present certain documentation:
a certificate showing a negative Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) test, taken within 72 hours of flight of first departure or a record of complete vaccination against COVID-19
a visa or prior approval document
a travel insurance document which covers health, immediate crisis, or rescue for the duration of your travel
a hotel booking, or a guarantee of accommodation, that allows at least ten days’ quarantine in Nepal (if not vaccinated)
The Department of Immigration has fuller information.
Many carriers now require valid COVID-19 negative PCR tests, taken within 72 hours or less of the flight, for international flights departing Nepal, as well as for some domestic flights. You should check with your carrier, and make appropriate arrangements.
The Government has announced that foreigners will not be able to transit Nepal to other onward destinations until further notice.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Nepal.
Travel in Nepal
The Nepali authorities have imposed temporary restrictions to control the COVID-19 outbreak, including requiring public and private transport services to cease operating, and limiting other non-essential movements. Non-essential services are partially closed, and restrictions may be introduced or extended at short notice. The current lockdown is in effect until at least 21 June. You must wear face masks to access essential services (including access to medical care, to shop, and to access the airport for outbound flights). There are penalties for people who do not observe these rules, which will be rigorously enforced.
Accommodation
Although some hotels in the Kathmandu valley are open, this can change at short notice. Local administrations in other districts are free to adapt a different model, and more restrictive lockdowns are still in place in other parts of the country.
public spaces and services are now currently operating a restricted service in the Kathmandu valley to control outbreaks of COVID-19, and other districts may operate more restrictive models. The lockdown is in effect until at least 21 June. Shops and services when open will only serve customers wearing some form of face mask. Shop openings may vary by location, as local administrations in other districts are free to adapt a different model, and more restrictive lockdowns are still in place in other parts of the country.
people are required to maintain social distancing and wear masks in public, and there is a ban on large gatherings.
entertainment centres such as cinema halls and dance bars, health clubs and swimming clubs, salons, beauty parlours, spas, libraries, zoos, and museums are currently closed.
There have been reports of some incidents in parts of Nepal of foreign tourists being threatened or intimidated by locals, allegedly in relation to coronavirus. Such incidents are rare. If you experience such problems, return immediately to your accommodation (if safe), or to the local law enforcement agencies (phone 100), or contact the British Embassy at +977 (0)1 423 7100.
Healthcare in Nepal
If you need medical attention and/or if you think you have any symptoms of COVID such as a fever or persistent cough please avoid contact with others if possible and go to a medical facility. For those who have health insurance cover, or are willing to pay then Mediciti and Norvic Hospitals can isolate and take a test to be sent to the national laboratory. Otherwise, go to Patan Hospital. Many of these facilities are experiencing pressure due to COVID-19, and you should allow for this.
Make sure you have sufficient medicine, if required. The British Embassy has a list of pharmacies and hospitals that dispense in Kathmandu.
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Testing and isolation for COVID-19 is limited to certain government hospitals, where services are basic. View Health for further details on healthcare in Nepal.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Nepal
As information is available about the national vaccination programme, this page will be updated.
The Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) is the UK authority responsible for assessing the safety, quality and efficacy of vaccines. It has authorised the Pfizer/BioNTech, Oxford/AstraZeneca and Moderna vaccines for temporary supply and use in the UK. Find out more about MHRA approval for these vaccines.
British nationals living overseas should seek medical advice from their local healthcare provider in the country where they reside. Information about vaccines used in other national programmes, including regulatory status, should be available from the local authorities. This list of Stringent Regulatory Authorities recognised by the World Health Organisation may also be a useful source of additional information. Find out more information about the COVID-19 vaccines on the World Health Organization COVID-19 vaccines page.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
Further information
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Additional useful information may be found on the British Embassy social media channels.
