This page has information on travelling to Nepal. Check what you must do to return to the UK.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport from the UK, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Nepal set and enforce entry rules.
All travellers
Visas
You should be able to get a visa on arrival if you can prove your vaccination status. Overstaying your visa in Nepal is a serious crime, and can lead to significant fines or potentially imprisonment. For the latest information on visa fees/fines please check the Nepal Immigration website.
People who have completed COVID-19 vaccination at least 14 days prior to entry to Nepal can now get visas on arrival (you should bring proof of vaccination). Non-vaccinated people cannot get visas on arrival, and are advised to contact their nearest Embassy of Nepal before departure for Nepal. You should refer to this notice regarding visa services.
Passport validity
Your passport must be valid for at least 6 months when you submit your application for a visa.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are accepted for entry, transit and exit from Nepal with a valid visa.
If you’re issued with an ETD in Nepal to use to exit Nepal, you will need to get an exit visa stamp from the Department of Immigration Office in Kathmandu.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
Medication
If you’re planning to take medication into Nepal, you should bring the prescription with you. For further details contact the Embassy of Nepal.
If you’re fully vaccinated
When flying to Nepal from or through the UK, you will need to present certain documentation:
a certificate showing a negative Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) test, taken within 72 hours of flight of first departure.
a visa or prior approval document. Those certified vaccinated, can secure a visa on arrival
a travel insurance document which covers health, immediate crisis, or rescue for the duration of your travel
a barcode generated from the online application of the Online International Travel Arrival Form. See ARMS-DIMS
If you are not vaccinated, you will not be able to get a visa on arrival. You should apply in your country of origin. In addition, you will be required to take an antigen test for COVID19 on arrival at the airport.
If you test positive, you will be required to quarantine in Government-provided facilities at your own expense.
You should also be ready to show evidence of your initial hotel booking.
Requirements can change at short notice, so check with your carrier and/or look for official notices to make sure to are complying with entry requirements.
The authorities now require valid COVID-19 negative PCR tests, taken within 48 hours or less of the flight, for international flights departing Nepal, as well as for some domestic flights. You should check with your carrier before flying, and make appropriate arrangements.
The Department of Immigration has provided fuller information on their notice, or on their main site.
You should not use the NHS testing service to get a test in order to facilitate your travel to another country. You should arrange to take a private test.
Proof of vaccination status
Nepal will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 recovery and vaccination record. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
If you’re not fully vaccinated
The Government of Nepal defines people who are fully vaccinated as those who have received full doses of an approved vaccine more than 14 days previously. If you’re not fully vaccinated, you must obtain a visa from a Nepali embassy overseas. You will not be able to get one on arrival.
You are required to submit the following documents when at the immigration entry point in Nepal:
COVID-19 negative report obtained within 72 hours of the departure from the first port of embarkation.
a travel insurance document which covers health, immediate crisis, or rescue for the duration of your travel
Printed copy of International Traveller Online Arrival Form obtained after online registration ARMS-DIMS. You should also be ready to show evidence of your initial hotel booking.
Unvaccinated people, or those unable to show that they have been fully vaccinated for at least fourteen days, are subject to free antigen tests on arrival. This applies to all passengers aged over five years old. Requirements can change at short notice, so please check with your carrier and/or look for official notices to make sure to are complying with entry requirements.
The Department of Immigration has provided fuller information on their notice on their main site.
Children and young people
Children aged 5 years and under do not require to be vaccinated or tested when arriving to Nepal. Children aged 17 and under do not require to be vaccinated when travelling to Nepal, but are subject to follow the other health protocols as adults.
If you’re transiting through Nepal
If you are transiting through Nepal on your way to another country and staying in the airport (airside) you will need:
a certificate showing a negative Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) test, taken within 72 hours of flight of first departure
a visa or prior approval document. Appropriately vaccinated passengers can now get a visa on arrival
a travel insurance document which covers health, immediate crisis, or rescue for the duration of your travel
a barcode generated from the online application of the Online International Travel Arrival Form. See ARMS-DIMS
Exemptions
The Department of Immigration has provided fuller information on their notice on their main site.
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
If you are visiting Nepal, your passport should be valid for 6 months from the date you submit your application for a visa.
Returning to the UK
Check what you must do to return to the UK
