At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Coronavirus
There is an ongoing outbreak of coronavirus (COVID-19) in China, but cases have been confirmed in other countries, including Nepal. The Nepali authorities have introduced a number of measures to limit the spread of the virus.
Nepal’s Department of Immigration has announced that all land-based entry crossings into Nepal are closed to foreigners from third countries from 14 March to 30 April 2020. Entry is only permitted via Tribhuvan International Airport.
For the same period, Nepal is not issuing tourist visas on arrival to any foreign nationals. Those entering on existing tourist visas must also show a valid swab test PCR certificate completed no more than 7 days before their entry to Nepal. This requirement is being rigorously enforced. Those entering must subsequently stay in self-quarantine for 14 days upon arrival.
Testing and isolation for COVID-19 is limited to certain Government hospitals, where services are basic.
Permissions for mountaineering expeditions for Spring 2020 (including existing permissions) have been suspended.
You should check the Department of Immigration website for the latest information. Keep up to date with information from your tour operator, transport or accommodation provider on the impact on any existing travel plans. If you need further information about entry requirements, contact the local immigration authorities or the nearest Nepali Embassy. You should also check with your airline or travel company for the latest information.
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
You can find more information about cases in Nepal on the TravelHealthPro website.
Other health risks
There has been an outbreak of dengue fever is the southeast of Nepal, in and around Dharan. If you’re travelling in this area, take extra precautions to avoid mosquito bites. For up to date information visit the TravelHealthPro website.
There have been confirmed cases of scrub typhus in Nepal.
There have been confirmed cases of cholera in Kathmandu, Nepalganj city in western Nepal and in Doti, Bajhang and Gorkha districts.
There have been some cases of avian influenza (bird flu) among birds and poultry in parts of the country. The risk to humans is believed to be very low, but as a precaution you should avoid visiting live animal markets, poultry farms and other places where you may come into close contact with birds, and make sure poultry and egg dishes are thoroughly cooked.
Local medical care
Medical treatment is expensive at western travellers’ clinics in Nepal. Healthcare is poor in most places outside the Kathmandu Valley and Pokhara. It may be difficult to get rapid helicopter evacuation if you fall ill or suffer a serious accident in a remote area of the country. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad, repatriation and evacuation by helicopter (presently costing between £1,000 and £2,000 per flying hour).
There is no central public ambulance service, though some private providers operate in the main cities. In an emergency, you should call the local hospital.
You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
