Penalties for drugs related offences are severe. Possession of small amounts of marijuana can lead to a prison sentence of over 5 years, usually after a lengthy and expensive legal process. An increasing number of people are being caught smuggling drugs in to and out of the country.
Some skincare products and E-cigarette refills may contain ingredients that are illegal in Nepal such as Cannabidiol (CBD). If found in possession of products containing CBD, they may be confiscated and you may face criminal charges. More information on narcotic, psychotropic and controlled drugs where this rule applies and allowed quantities can be found on the Nepal Government’s Department of Drug Administration website.
Bringing precious metals into Nepal is strictly regulated. Foreign nationals are permitted to carry gold ornaments up to 50 grams and silver ornaments up to 100 grams. Undeclared gold or silver will be subject to a fine equivalent to the value of the goods and imprisonment from one month to five years depending upon the value of the goods, in addition to the confiscation of the goods. They may be also taken into judicial custody (detained) during the proceedings. For more information, contact Nepal Immigration.
It’s illegal to buy, sell, kill or capture any wild animal or trade its parts without a license. Nepal is a signatory to the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES) which bans trade of wildlife products without a permit. Those caught purchasing or trafficking such goods as well as accomplices who knowingly assist anyone in committing any offences against the law will be prosecuted and receive prison sentences or fines or both.
The currency of Nepal is the Nepalese Rupee (NPR). If you are visiting Nepal, you can bring cash or travellers’ cheques (in pounds sterling or another foreign currency) and/or a bank card with you and exchange or withdraw US dollars or Nepalese rupees from ATM machines in Nepal.
Scottish and Northern Ireland bank notes are not accepted in Nepal.
There are ATM cash machines in most large towns, cities and hotels in Nepal.
You will have to declare any amount exceeding US$5,000 in bank notes, or US$10,000 in notes and travellers’ cheques combined on your Customs Declaration when you arrive in the country. When you leave the country, you need to present the receipt for the exchange you made during the entry into Nepal. The airport desk will then help convert your Nepali currency back to the foreign currency.
Women should avoid wearing shorts and sleeveless tops where this might be seen as inappropriate, eg temples and other holy places. Remove shoes before entering certain holy places. Non-Hindus are not permitted in some temples.
You should carry your passport with you at all times. Leave a photocopy in a safe place or with friends and family in the UK.
LGBT+
Nepal is generally open and tolerant to LGBT+ issues, and same-sex relations are not criminalised. A Supreme Court ruling in 2007 ordered the government to end discrimination against sexual minorities and to ensure equal rights. However, all public displays of affection, irrespective of sexuality or gender identity, tend to be viewed as inappropriate in Nepali society and may therefore attract negative attention. See our information and advice page for the LGBT+ community before you travel.
