Earthquakes
Major earthquakes on 25 April 2015 (epicentre Gorkha district) and 12 May 2015 (epicentre Sindhupalchok district) caused extensive damage to buildings and infrastructure particularly in northern parts of Gorkha, Rasuwa, Sindhupalchok and Dolakha districts. These include the Manaslu and Langtang national parks.
Reconstruction work is underway following the earthquakes and most of the country is fully open for tourism, including most trekking routes, though some trails are still affected in Langtang, Manaslu and Helambu. Check with your tour company before trekking in these areas.
Earth tremors are common across Nepal. Lack of adequate emergency preparedness, medical facilities and emergency equipment will increase the impact that an earthquake could have.
The British Embassy would only be able to offer limited Consular assistance in the days immediately following a severe earthquake in Kathmandu Valley due to the likely impact on local infrastructure and inaccessibility of many places. The British Embassy would be unable to provide food, water, shelter or medical assistance in a crisis.
Check with your tour operator to find out what contingency plans the operator may have in place in the event of an earthquake. The British Embassy would seek to help British nationals to leave as soon as possible following a major natural disaster. However, Kathmandu’s Tribhuvan International Airport (TIA) may be unusable following a large-scale earthquake, as will Nepal’s road network. It could take some days for it to become operational.
The National Society of Earthquake Technology - Nepal (NSET) provides advice on what to do in the event of an earthquake.
Monsoon season
Travel during the monsoon season (June-September) can be hazardous. Monsoon rains cause flooding and landslides that can cut off some towns and villages for days at a time. Take care and check access routes before setting off. Make sure any vehicle you travel in is equipped to deal with the risk of landslides (eg winches, ropes).
The Government of Nepal Meteorological Forecasting Division provides weather updates (in English) and flood forecasts during the monsoon. The Department of Hydrology and Metrology also provides daily updates.
