Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

Nepal’s land borders are closed to third country nationals and international flights are suspended until 15 April. There are currently no commercial options available to leave Nepal.
UK special flights
On 17 April, the UK will operate a special flight from Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu for British tourists, short term visitors and their direct dependants to return to the UK.
The cost of the flight is £800 per person
To be eligible to take this flight, you must be normally resident in the UK. Eligibility will be checked before tickets are issued
If you wish to travel, book tickets on the CTM website as soon as possible
If you have difficulty booking online, you can call CTM on +44 (0)20 7429 9725
Tickets will not be on sale at the airport. Do not travel to the airport without a confirmed ticket
To make a booking, you will need:
full passport and contact details for each traveller you are registering
your UK home address and postcode
your means of payment, such as credit or debit card details
If you cannot pay for the ticket home on this flight please call CTM rather than try to book on the website. If all other options (e.g. savings accounts, help from family members or friends) have been exhausted, you can apply for an emergency loan which may be authorised.
You will need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Travel to the airport
The Nepali authorities have imposed internal movement restrictions until at least 15 April to contain the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19). If this is extended, we will publish further details on all of the Embassy’s social media pages about how to get to the airport. This includes supporting British tourists who are currently outside Kathmandu to return there.
Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British Embassy on Twitter and Facebook.
Future options
The British Embassy Kathmandu is in contact with airlines, the Nepali authorities and other governments to make sure commercial options for returning to the UK are available as soon as possible.
If you cannot leave Nepal at this time, you should:
Continue to observe the Nepali authorities’ restrictions on internal movement, which they have introduced to contain the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19)
If you are safe where you are, stay there. If you cannot stay where you are, email BEKathmandu.Details@fco.gov.uk with details of your name, nationality, passport number and location
Make sure you have sufficient medicine, if required. The Embassy has a list of pharmacies and hospitals that dispense in Kathmandu. Please email BEKathmandu.Details@fco.gov.uk with details of your name, nationality, passport number and location if you are outside of Kathmandu and need assistance
See more information and advice about staying where you are if you cannot return to the UK.
Arrival in the UK
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
