

Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. You should remain vigilant at all times.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Nepal
Terrorist attacks in Nepal cannot be ruled out.
Attacks can be indiscriminate, including in places frequented by expatriates and foreign travellers. Be vigilant in public places and take local advice.
Civil disorder
Large protests occurred in Kathmandu on 23 November and could continue for some time. The authorities have asked organisers to stick to areas of the city away from main tourist locations (particularly Tinkune in the southern part of Kathmandu). Disruption should be expected in multiple locations and there will be an increased police presence across Kathmandu. Avoid protests, check local media for updates and follow the direction of the local authorities. 
Rules prohibiting gatherings of more than five people have been introduced in some areas of Kathmandu (between Padmodaya Mode to New Baneswar) until 19 December. Check with your hotel, tour operator or local authorities for more information.
Political protests, demonstrations and strikes are fairly common in Nepal. They can happen at short notice and may lead to clashes between protesters and law enforcement. You should:
avoid any demonstrations
follow the direction of local authorities
Crime
There’s a low rate of serious crime in Nepal, but take precautions.
Protecting your belongings
Watch out for pickpockets and bag-snatching, particularly in airports, on buses and in areas popular with foreign nationals like Thamel, Sanepa and Kupondol in Kathmandu.
Take care when walking around at night. Assaults and robberies are more likely in the evening in poorly lit areas. Avoid walking on your own and do not carry large sums of cash. Keep valuables in a hotel safe if possible.
If you are the victim of crime, call:
Tourist Police hotline on 1144 for emergencies
Tourist Police in Kathmandu on 01 4700750
Tourist Police headquarters on 01 4247041 for other areas in Nepal
Sexual assault
Women have been sexually assaulted in tourist areas such as Thamel and Sanepa in Kathmandu. Be cautious, especially when alone after dark. See our advice for women travelling abroad.
Drink spiking
Be wary of accepting drinks from strangers and do not leave drinks unattended.
Scams
There have been isolated reports of some trekking guides taking inexperienced trekkers to high altitudes too quickly, and then calling in expensive helicopter medivacs from which the guides take a cut. Be wary of trekking deals that look very cheap and may be scams.
Laws and cultural differences
Personal ID
You should carry your passport with you. Leave a photocopy in a safe place or with friends and family in the UK.
Visiting holy places
Avoid wearing shorts and sleeveless tops in temples and other holy places. Remove shoes before entering certain holy places. Non-Hindus are not permitted in Hindu temples.
Illegal drugs and prison sentences
Penalties for drugs related offences are severe. If you are caught with even small amounts of marijuana, you can go to prison for over 5 years, usually after a long and expensive legal process. Police are arresting an increasing number of people for smuggling drugs into and out of Nepal.
Some skincare products and e-cigarette refills may contain ingredients that are illegal in Nepal such as Cannabidiol (CBD). If the police find you with products containing CBD, they may seize them and charge you with drug possession.
LGBT+ travellers
Nepal is generally open and tolerant to LGBT+ issues, and same-sex relations are not illegal. However, any show of affection in public, irrespective of sexuality or gender, is viewed by Nepalis as inappropriate.
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Wildlife, animal products and souvenirs
It’s illegal to buy, sell, kill or capture any wild animal or trade its parts without a licence. Nepal is a signatory to the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES) which bans trade of wildlife products without a permit. If you are caught buying or trafficking such goods, or knowingly assisting anyone to do so, you will get a fine or a prison sentence.
Outdoor activities and adventure tourism
Trekking in Nepal
You need a valid permit and a Trekking Information Management System (TIMS) card to enter Nepal’s main trekking regions. See the Nepal Tourism Board TIMS card requirement for more information.
Do not trek alone. All foreign independent trekkers (FITs) must use a local guide or porter while trekking in Nepal’s national parks and protected areas. Always observe national park regulations and follow your guide’s instructions.
If you ignore the requirements, you may be fined or removed from protected areas. Check the Nepal Tourism Board website for further information or updates.
Be aware of hazards all year round, especially above 3,000m:
sudden weather changes and potential storms
avalanches and snow drifts
landslides, rockfalls and flooding
glacial crevasses and hollows
altitude sickness
sun exposure
You should:
use a reputable trekking agency or guide
take note of weather forecasts and conditions
make sure you’re physically fit and have not overestimated your abilities
take warm clothes and wet weather gear
use sun block (SPF20 or higher) and sunglasses
Make sure your insurance includes cover for mountain rescue services and helicopter costs.
You can get live updates on trekking conditions in Nepal. You can also follow national weather forecasts.
Internal flights in high mountain areas can be delayed by poor weather conditions and cancellations are common. Carry enough funds in case of delays, particularly in remote areas, where ATMs may not be available and credit cards not accepted.
In remote areas, including long stretches of the Annapurna Circuit trek, mobile phone coverage is limited. Consider renting a satellite phone and make sure your friends and family know you will be out of contact.
Volunteering and adventure travel
Research any organisation or company you’re planning to use before committing yourself. See gap year travel, safer adventure travel and volunteering overseas for more advice.
Nepal’s Social Welfare Council has a list of registered volunteer organisations. You can ask for a copy by sending an email to: info@swc.org.np.
The British Embassy has received reports of volunteer opportunities at orphanages which are profit-orientated organisations rather than charities. If you’re volunteering at this type of organisation, you could be contributing to child exploitation. Contact the Nepali Central Child Welfare Board on +977 1-5010045 and 5010046 to check before signing up to volunteer for one of these organisations.
Transport risks
Road travel
You need a 1968 international driving permit (IDP) and your UK driving licence to drive in Nepal. The 1949 IDP is not accepted any more. You cannot buy an IDP outside the UK, so get one before you travel. You can buy an IDP in person from some UK post offices – find your nearest post office branch that offers this service.
Always carry your IDP with you when driving, as well as your vehicle registration documents.
If you’re planning to drive in Nepal, see information on driving abroad and read the International Drivers Association Nepal driving guide.
Road accidents are a major cause of death and disability in Nepal. The causes range from overloading vehicles, negligence of drivers, mechanical failure, speeding, poor road conditions and an increasing number of unregulated private vehicles.
Road conditions are poor, especially during the monsoon season or in mountain areas. The 2015 earthquakes affected many roads and reconstruction work is still ongoing, making conditions worse.
It’s the law to wear a helmet when driving a motorbike.
Bus travel
Bus accidents are common in Nepal and there are a number of accidents resulting in fatalities every year. Buses are often overcrowded, poorly regulated, and poorly maintained. Speeding, low driving standards and poor road conditions contribute to the risk of accidents. Do not travel on overloaded or overcrowded buses, or at night. Tourist buses usually offer a higher standard of comfort and safety.
Air travel
Air crashes can have a variety of causes and are not necessarily linked with poor safety standards or non-compliance with international safety standards. However, there have been a number of fatal accidents and air crashes across Nepal in the commercial air transport sector (involving planes and helicopters). Over the last 5 years, this includes a number of separate incidents and at least 100 deaths.
The UK Air Safety List (ASL) lists all known airlines in Nepal that do not meet international safety standards and are banned from operating commercial air services to or from the UK. Check the UK Air Safety List when considering whether to fly and which airlines to fly with. The list is maintained by the Department for Transport, based on advice from the UK Civil Aviation Authority.
Currently no Nepali airline meets the international safety standards and so all are listed on the ASL. This means they are all banned from operating commercial air services to or from the UK.
Extreme weather and natural disasters
Monsoon
Travel during the monsoon season (June to September) can be hazardous. Flooding and landslides cut off towns and villages for days at a time. If you travel by road during monsoon season you should:
check the road is open
be prepared to change or cancel your plans at short notice
make sure any vehicle you travel in is equipped with a winch and ropes in case of landslides
take enough supplies to cover any possible delays
The government of Nepal Meteorological Forecasting Division provides weather updates (in English) and flood forecasts during the monsoon. You can also access the Department of Hydrology and Meteorology flood monitoring service.
Earthquakes
Major earthquakes in 2015 caused extensive damage to buildings and infrastructure particularly in northern parts of Gorkha, Rasuwa, Sindhupalchok and Dolakha districts. These include the Manaslu and Langtang national parks.
Most of the country is fully open for tourism, including most trekking routes, though reconstruction continues in some areas of the country. Check with your tour company before trekking.
Earth tremors are common across Nepal. The impact of an earthquake is likely to be worsened by the lack of emergency equipment and poorly resourced medical facilities. British Embassy assistance will be slow to reach you if you are in a remote area.
Check with your tour operator to find out what contingency plans they have for an earthquake.
The National Society of Earthquake Technology - Nepal (NSET) gives advice on what to do in an earthquake.
