Coronavirus guidance is being updated.
Read the Prime Minister’s statement for the latest information.

This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Nepal as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Nepal to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Nepal
The Government of Nepal has begun to relax the current internal movement restrictions around the country. Vehicles with number plates ending in odd numbers can travel on odd-numbered days, and vehicles with number plates ending in even numbers can travel on even-numbered days. Travel between different districts requires the prior approval of the Chief District Officer(s) concerned.
Shops are beginning to open, though many will only serve customers wearing some form of face masks. Shop openings may vary by location.
Permissions for mountaineering expeditions for Spring 2020 (including existing permissions) have been suspended
There have been reports of some incidents in parts of Nepal of foreign tourists being threatened or intimidated by locals, allegedly in relation to coronavirus. Such incidents are rare, although have increased in recent days. If you experience such problems, return immediately to your accommodation (if safe), or to the local law enforcement agencies (phone 100), or contact the British Embassy at +977 (0)1 423 7100.
For information on entering Nepal, see Entry Requirements.
Accommodation
If you are safe where you are, stay there except for essential movements, such as for food or medical reasons, unless you are seeking to return to Kathmandu in order to leave.
If you cannot stay where you are, email the British Embassy via BEKathmandu@fco.gov.uk with details of your name, nationality, passport number and location.
Health
Make sure you have sufficient medicine, if required. The British Embassy has a list of pharmacies and hospitals that dispense in Kathmandu.
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Testing and isolation for COVID-19 is limited to certain Government hospitals, where services are basic. View Health for further details on healthcare in Nepal.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Nepal, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Additional useful information may be found on the British Embassy social media channels.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
