Before you travel, check the ‘Entry requirements’ section for Nepal’s current entry restrictions and requirements. Due to COVID-19 these may change with little warning. Monitor this advice for the latest updates and stay in contact with your travel provider.
If you plan to pass through another country on your journey, check the travel advice for the country you’re transiting.
On 20 November Nepal will hold national and provincial elections.
It is expected that vehicle movement around the country will be significantly restricted on the day of the election and possibly the days either side. There are likely to be only limited exceptions to these restrictions (for example those voting, official business, emergencies or travel to an international airport for a pre-booked flight). Internal flights may also be limited on Election Day. If you are in Nepal on these days you should consult your travel agent or hotel for guidance before moving around. You should also follow the direction of local authorities on the day.
On Election Day there will also likely be a heightened security presence across the country. This includes around polling stations, which will be busy at certain times of the day. Consider your movement plans, avoid crowds and follow the directions of local authorities.
Although there are no particular indications of violence around the elections, there have been a small number of reports of security incidents around political campaigning. Clashes or security incidents are therefore possible. As such you should remain vigilant, exercise caution and avoid large gatherings, political rallies and demonstrations.
On 18 November a suspected Improvised Explosive Device (IED) was discovered in Lalitpur/ Patan (Kathmandu) and dealt with by the authorities. There is an ongoing risk of similar incidents related to the elections. We continue to advise travellers to remain vigilant, exercise caution and avoid large gatherings, political rallies and demonstrations. Follow the direction of local authorities and report anything suspicious to the police.
It is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides appropriate cover. See the FCDO’s guidance on foreign travel insurance.
At certain times of year, there can be outbreaks of dengue fever in certain parts of Nepal. This includes a number of cases recorded in Kathmandu and the Kathmandu Valley (as of September 2022). If you’re travelling in any area where dengue is prevalent, take extra precautions to avoid mosquito bites. For up to date information see guidance on the TravelHealthPro website.
The monsoon season normally runs from June to September. Flooding and landslides often occur during this time. Road travel anywhere can be hazardous, particularly in rural areas. See Monsoon season
Nepal is in a major earthquake zone and remains at risk from further earthquakes and aftershocks. You should familiarise yourself with safety procedures in the event of an earthquake. See Earthquakes
Small scale politically motivated protests, demonstrations or strikes are fairly common in Nepal. They can occur at short notice and clashes between protesters and law enforcement agencies may occur. You should exercise caution and avoid any demonstrations.
You’ll need a visa to enter Nepal. There are requirements for vaccinated and non-vaccinated travellers. See Visas
Never trek alone. Use a reputable agency, remain on established routes and walk with at least one other person. Take note of weather conditions and forecasts, and come prepared. There are rules in place that regulate the location and group size for treks. Please familiarise yourself with the Department of Immigration guidance, and make sure you are in touch with your trekking guide. Altitude sickness is a risk in all trekking regions. See Trekking in Nepal
All air carriers from Nepal have been refused permission to operate air services to the EU due to safety concerns. See Air travel
Car and motorbike accidents are one of the biggest causes of injury and death overseas. If possible, avoid travelling at night. Always travel in a well-maintained vehicle with seatbelts. If you travel by motorbike, wear a helmet and proper footwear. See Road travel
High levels of air pollution can occur in Nepal. Children, the elderly and those with pre-existing medical conditions may be especially affected by poor air quality. You can check the pollution index levels for real-time information, and the WHO factsheet on air quality.
Terrorists are likely to try to carry out attacks in Nepal. See Terrorism
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.
If you need to contact the emergency services, call 100 (police) and 101 (fire). There is no central public ambulance service, though some private providers operate in the main cities. In an emergency, you should call the local hospital.
The Overseas Business Risk service offers information and advice for British companies operating overseas on how to manage political, economic, and business security-related risks.
