

Protests
17 September has been declared a day of national mourning in Nepal, following events last week. Many businesses are likely to be closed for the day, and travel disruption is possible. Curfews introduced in several cities following violent protests have been lifted, allowing freedom of movement. Restrictions could however be reintroduced. Avoid any large crowds or protests, check local media for updates (including any new curfews), and follow the directions of the authorities. See ‘civil disorder’ on the ‘Safety and security’ page.
Following a period of disruption Kathmandu airport re-opened on 10 September. Contact your airline, hotel and tour operator for up-to-date information and to confirm any flight arrangements or logistics to get to the airport before you attempt to travel.
The Government of Nepal has said travellers whose visas were valid until 8 September and were unable to depart Nepal, will be able to exit without being charged additional fees.
While the social media ban has been lifted, expect continued disruption to services, including internet and mobile data.
Read the FCDO’s advice on if you’re affected by a crisis abroad.
Before you travel
No travel can be guaranteed safe. Read all the advice in this guide. You may also find it helpful to:
see general advice for women travellers
read our guide on disability and travel abroad
see general advice for LGBT+ travellers
read about safety for solo and independent travel
see advice on volunteering and adventure travel abroad
Travel insurance
If you choose to travel, research your destinations and get appropriate travel insurance. Insurance should cover your itinerary, planned activities and expenses in an emergency.
About FCDO travel advice
The Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) provides advice about risks of travel to help you make informed decisions. Find out more about FCDO travel advice.
Get travel advice updates
Sign up to get email notifications when this travel advice is updated.
Follow FCDO:   
travel advice on X
travel advice on Facebook
Travel Aware on Instagram
