Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Lithuania on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
Commercial flights are operating to and from Lithuania. You should check with your travel company for the latest information on their services.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Lithuania.
Returning to the UK
Travelling from and returning to the UK
If you plan to pass through another country to return to the UK, check the travel advice for the country you’re transiting. If you will pass through a red list country, book your hotel quarantine package before travelling to the UK.
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements. You should contact local authorities for information on testing facilities. You should check that the test result can be provided in the correct format and language.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Facemasks
You must wear a medical facemask in all indoor public spaces in Lithuania, including shops, restaurants, businesses, workplaces, museums, theatres, public transport, taxis and educational environments.
Masks should be three layers of non-woven material and bear the CE marking on their packaging.
This does not apply to children under the age of six, or people with a medical exemption. If you cannot wear facemasks on medical grounds, you are advised to wear face shields if possible. Exemptions also apply to those doing physical exercise, providing a service that cannot be done with a facemask, or consuming food or drink.
Public places and services
A number of restrictions apply to those not vaccinated against COVID-19.
UK nationals resident in Lithuania may be able to apply for the Lithuanian Freedom Pass, to prove their vaccination status. More information about registering for the pass is available on the Lithuanian Ministry of the Economy and Innovation website. The pass is designed to be used for public services in Lithuania, it is not considered valid proof of vaccination status for the purpose of international travel.
From 1 December, the requirements for Freedom Passes for those aged 16 and over will change. To access the Freedom Pass/services previously available to those with a Freedom Pass, you will need to have proof of the following:
Confirmation that you completed a full course of a COVID-19 vaccine approved by the European Medicines Agency (EMA) within the last seven months; or
Confirmation that you have had an EMA approved COVID-19 vaccine booster within the last seven months; or
A negative COVID-19 PCR test result, taken within the last 72 hours. PCR tests for individuals aged 16 and over, for the purpose of a Freedom Pass, will be charged. See COVID-19 tests in Lithuania; or
Proof of recovery from COVID-19 in the last seven months.
From 28 December, the requirement for a Freedom Pass or equivalent to access most non-essential public services in Lithuania will be extended to children from age 12 years and two months, but under 16. To access the Freedom Pass/services children of this age must have proof of one of the following:
Confirmation that they had their first dose of EMA approved vaccine no earlier than two weeks and no later than 12 weeks before. Or, confirmation of a second dose of EMA approved COVID-19 vaccine at least one week before. COVID-19 vaccines are available to all children aged five years and older in Lithuania. See COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Lithuania; or
A negative COVID-19 PCR test result, taken within the last seven days. Tests for children under 16 are available free of charge. See COVID-19 tests in Lithuania; or
Proof of recovery from COVID-19, confirmed by a negative PCR test, in the last seven months
Lithuania will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 recovery and vaccination record, if it meets the requirements set out above. If you are travelling with a printed PDF proof of vaccination status, it must date from 1 November to ensure that the certificate can be scanned successfully, if domestic certification is required. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
More information on COVID-19 related restrictions to public places and services in Lithuania is available on the KoronaStop website.
Healthcare in Lithuania
Many non-essential health services have been temporarily suspended. If you have a medical appointment, check with the service provider to confirm whether the appointment can take place as planned.
COVID-19 tests in Lithuania
If you have symptoms of COVID-19 or have been in contact with a confirmed case within the previous 14 days, call the Lithuanian COVID-19 hotline on +370 37367 963 to request a COVID-19 PCR test. The hotline is open daily between 8am and 11pm. In case of an emergency, call 112. Tests booked through the hotline are free of charge.
PCR tests for use in place of the Lithuanian Freedom Pass must be booked through private clinics.
See Public places and services. A list of private clinics offering PCR and antigen tests is available on the Lithuanian Ministry of Health website. The tests booked through these clinics will be charged.
Not all testing centres in Lithuania offer results in English. If you require your results in English, you should request at the point of booking. English language result certificates are likely to incur additional charges.
If you do not have access to a private vehicle, you will need to travel to the testing centre by taxi. You are advised to check at the time of booking whether the taxi company is able to take you to a testing centre, as some taxis may not have the precautions in place to provide this service.
Testing positive for COVID-19 in Lithuania
If you test positive for COVID-19 with an antigen test, you should immediately register for a PCR test. Call the Lithuanian COVID-19 hotline on +370 37367 963 to request a COVID-19 PCR test. The hotline is open daily between 8am and 11pm. You must self-isolate until you receive your results and instructions from public health officials, even if you are asymptomatic.
If you test positive for COVID-19 with a PCR test, you must self-isolate for 14 days.
While in isolation, you must:
not leave your place of isolation without the permission of a healthcare professional;
not go to the shops;
not attend face to face public services;
not have guests/visitors;
organise for essential provisions to be delivered by friends, family or delivery services;
consult with a GP by phone/email to arrange extensions to prescriptions;
call the Lithuanian COVID-19 hotline on +370 37367 963 if you display COVID-19 symptoms; and
call the Emergency Response Centre on 112 if your symptoms become severe.
The Lithuanian Government advises against self-isolating in properties with those who are not isolating. If this is not possible, you should stay in separate, well-ventilated rooms, restrict your movement within the home and minimise use of common spaces. Children who test positive for COVID-19 may isolate with a parent or guardian, but they must also adhere to self-isolation rules. You will be expected to cover the cost of your self-isolation accommodation, if you are unable to stay in a private property.
While in isolation, you should expect to be contacted by Lithuanian health officials. They will ask you to provide:
A list of individuals with whom you have been in close contact in the 14 days leading up to your first symptoms or to your day of testing, if you are asymptomatic. Close contacts are considered to be those people with whom you have been less than two metres apart for 15 minutes or more, without facemasks; and
A list of locations that you have visited over the previous 14 days and the time of your visit.
If you have a pet, but are unable to arrange alternative pet care, you may leave your place of isolation for up to 15 minutes at a time to walk your pet. This exception only applies to individuals who have no COVID-19 symptoms.
British nationals needing to temporarily break isolation, who meet one of the requirements set out by the Lithuanian Government, must notify the NVSC in advance. You do not need to inform the NVSC if you are breaking isolation for a COVID-19 PCR test or for emergency medical treatment.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Lithuania
Wherever possible British nationals should aim to be vaccinated in the country where they live. We will update this page when the Government of Lithuania announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Lithuanian national vaccination programme started in December 2020 and uses Pfizer-BioNTech, Astra Zeneca, Moderna, and Janssen vaccines. British nationals resident in Lithuania are eligible for vaccination. UK nationals with Lithuanian residency may register for a vaccination in Lithuania over the phone on +370 5 230 0123 or email klausimai@ulac.lt. More information about the Lithuanian government’s vaccine priorities and estimated timeline for mass vaccination is available on the KoronaStop website.
Children aged five years and older are eligible for vaccination in Lithuania. Children aged five to 11 years (inclusive) will be offered a reduced volume dose of Pfizer-BioNTech (Comirnaty) vaccine. Children aged 12 to 16 years will be offered either standard Comirnaty or Moderna (Spikevax) vaccines.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad page. If you’re a British national living in Lithuania, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Lithuania offers COVID-19 boosters to all residents aged 18 and over, from four months after they completed their first course of COVID-19 vaccine. British nationals resident in Lithuania who wish to register for a booster should call +370 5 230 0123 or email klausimai@ulac.lt.
If you receive your COVID-19 vaccination in Lithuania, you can get an EU Digital COVID Certificate from the national authorities. The Certificate proves that you have been vaccinated against COVID-19, received a negative test result, or recovered from COVID-19. It will help facilitate your travel within the EU and, in some countries, you can use it to demonstrate your COVID-19 status to businesses and other organisations. For further information visit the European Commission’s EU Digital COVID Certificate page.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
Further details on Lithuania’s response to the COVID-19 pandemic are available in English on the Lithuanian Government Korona Stop website.
