The information on this page covers the most common types of travel and reflects the UK government’s understanding of the rules currently in place. Unless otherwise stated, this information is for travellers using a full ‘British Citizen’ passport.
The authorities in the country or territory you’re travelling to are responsible for setting and enforcing the rules for entry. If you’re unclear about any aspect of the entry requirements, or you need further reassurance, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
You should also consider checking with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Entry rules in response to coronavirus (COVID-19)
Entry to Lithuania
Lithuania lifted the ban on flights from the UK on 1 January 2021. Travel may still be disrupted so you should check with your travel operator. Check our advice on things to consider, and be prepared to stay overseas longer than planned.
British nationals travelling to Lithuania from overseas must complete an online registration form no earlier than 48 hours before they begin their journey to Lithuania. British nationals arriving in Lithuania by private vehicles or on foot must complete the online registration form within 12 hours of arriving in Lithuania.
British nationals travelling to Lithuania from the UK are required to self-isolate for 10 days. In addition, British nationals must provide evidence of a negative COVID-19 PCR or antigen test result, taken no earlier than 72 hours before arrival in Lithuania. Test results must be in English, Russian or Lithuanian.
Regardless of the initial PCR/antigen test result, you must remain in isolation. Failure to comply with isolation requirements could result in a fine of between 60 and 1,500 Euros.
You may shorten your isolation period, by taking an additional PCR test from day 7 of your isolation period. You may leave isolation if the test returns a negative result. You must inform the NVSC of your negative result and intention to end isolation early.
British nationals travelling to Lithuania from the UK, who are fully vaccinated against COVID-19, are exempt from the requirement to self-isolate. You must provide evidence of a negative PCR/antigen test, regardless of your vaccination status. The Lithuanian government considers individuals to be fully vaccinated if they can provide a country-specific vaccination certificate or an international vaccination certificate. The document must confirm that you have gone through the full programme of COVID-19 vaccination, with a vaccine registered in the EU Register of Medicinal Products. See Demonstrating your COVID-19 vaccination status
Children under the age of seven will not be required to self-isolate on arrival or provide evidence of a negative PCR/antigen test result. Children between the ages of seven and 10 will be exempt from self-isolation if they provide a negative PCR/antigen test result on arrival (taken no earlier than 72 hours before arrival). If they arrive in Lithuania without a negative PCR/antigen test result, they may take the test in Lithuania and leave isolation once a negative result is received.
British nationals who are travelling to Lithuania from India, Brazil or South Africa or have visited these countries in the previous 14 days, are required to provide evidence of a negative PCR/antigen test taken no earlier than 72 hours before beginning their journey, and to self-isolate for 10 days on arrival, regardless of their vaccination status.
There are a small number of additional exemptions from self-isolation on arrival from overseas. Please check the Lithuanian National Public Health Centre (NVSC) website for the latest information on exemptions.
Different arrival requirements may apply, depending on your country of departure. For more information on the requirements for arrivals from other countries, check the Lithuanian Ministry of Health website.
You can register for a PCR test by calling the COVID-19 hotline on +370 37367 963. The hotline is open daily between 8am and 11pm. Tests booked through the hotline are free of charge.
A list of private clinics offering PCR/antigen tests is available on the NVSC website. The tests booked through these clinics will be charged.
You should note that not all testing centres in Lithuania offer results in English. Should you require your results in English, you should request at the point of booking. English language certificates are likely to incur additional charges.
You must not use public transportation to travel to the testing centre. If you do not have access to a private vehicle, you will need to travel to the testing centre by taxi. Check at the time of booking whether the taxi company is able to take you to a testing centre, as some taxis may not have the precautions in place to provide this service.
Demonstrating your COVID-19 vaccination status
If you live in England, Lithuania will accept the NHS app or your NHS letter to demonstrate your COVID-19 vaccination status. If you live in Scotland or Wales, Lithuania will accept your respective NHS letter to demonstrate your COVID-19 vaccination status. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
Quarantine requirements
While in isolation after arrival from the UK, you must:
stay in separate rooms to individuals within your household who were not part of your travelling party;
not go to shops;
not attend face to face public services;
not have guests/visitors;
organise for essential provisions to be delivered by friends, family or delivery services;
consult with a GP by phone/email to arrange extensions to prescriptions; and
call the Emergency Response Centre on 112, or COVID-19 hotline on +370 37367 963, if you develop symptoms of COVID-19. The hotline is open daily between 8am and 11pm.
When isolating on arrival from the UK, you may go outside for a walk, within a 1km radius of your place of self-isolation. While outside, you must wear a facemask, stay away from crowded areas and not mix with individuals outside your travelling party.
While in isolation, you may be contacted by Lithuanian health officials.
British nationals arriving in Lithuania from a country that is designated as highly affected by COVID-19 may be subject to more stringent requirements, including restrictions on places of self-isolation. More information on the latest restrictions for international arrivals is available on the Lithuanian National Public Health Centre website.
British nationals needing to temporarily break isolation, who meet one of the requirements set out by the Lithuanian Government, must notify the NVSC in advance. You do not need to inform the NVSC if you are breaking isolation for a COVID-19 PCR test or for emergency medical treatment.
British nationals may leave Lithuania before the end of their isolation period in order to return to the UK/their country of residence. However, you must register your travels plans with the NVSC at least 24 hours before departure.
Neighbouring countries
There may be restrictions in countries neighbouring Lithuania. Please check country-specific FCDO Travel Advice for details and contact the British Embassy if you need assistance.
You should follow the local quarantine measures of the country that you are in.
Visas
If you need further information about entry requirements, contact the local immigration authorities or the nearest Lithuanian embassy/consulate. You should also check with your airline or travel company for the latest information.
Regular entry requirements
Visas
The rules for travelling or working in European countries changed on 1 January 2021:
you can travel to countries in the Schengen area for up to 90 days in any 180-day period without a visa. This applies if you travel as a tourist, to visit family or friends, to attend business meetings, cultural or sports events, or for short-term studies or training.
if you are travelling to Lithuania and other Schengen countries without a visa, make sure your whole visit is within the 90-day limit. Visits to Schengen countries within the previous 180 days before you travel count towards your 90 days
to stay longer, to work or study, for business travel or for other reasons, you will need to meet the Lithuanian government’s entry requirements. Check with the Lithuanian Embassy what type of visa and/or work permit you may need
if you stay in Lithuania with a visa or permit, this does not count towards your 90-day visa-free limit
Any time you spent in Lithuania or other Schengen countries before 1 January 2021 does not count towards your 90-day visa-free limit.
At Lithuanian border control, you may need to use separate lanes from EU, EEA and Swiss citizens when queueing. Your passport may be stamped on entry and exit. You may also need to:
show a return or onward ticket
show you have enough money for your stay
There are separate requirements for those who are resident in Lithuania. If you are resident in Lithuania, you should carry proof of residence as well as your valid passport when you travel. For further information on these requirements, see our Living in Lithuania guide.
Passport validity
Check your passport is valid for travel before you book your trip, and renew your passport if you do not have enough time left on it.
You must have at least 6 months left on an adult or child passport to travel to most countries in Europe (not including Ireland).
If you renewed your current passport before the previous one expired, extra months may have been added to its expiry date. Any extra months on your passport over 10 years may not count towards the 6 months needed.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are accepted for entry, airside transit and exit from Lithuania.
