Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

There are currently extremely limited commercial options available to return to the UK from Lithuania. All commercial flights between Lithuania and the UK have been cancelled until further notice. From 00:00EET Saturday 4 April there will be no flights in or out of Lithuania. Limited passenger ferry services are operating between between Klaipeda and Kiel (Germany) and Klaipeda and Karlshamn (Sweden).
We know this is concerning for British people trying to leave Lithuania. We will update this page if further options for you to return to the UK become available.
What to do
If you cannot leave Lithuania at this time, you should:
follow the advice of local authorities, including local measures to help minimise your risk of exposure to coronavirus
find accommodation that’s suitable for your needs, if you can. You should note that many local authorities across Lithuania have closed all hotels, short-term rented apartments and other accommodation services.
keep in regular contact with family and friends at home, so they know you are safe and well
See more information and advice about staying where you are if you cannot return to the UK.
Future travel options
This travel advice will be updated when departure options become available. Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British Embassy on Twitter and Facebook.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Arrival in the UK
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British Embassy on +370 5 246 2900.
The Embassy cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone. This page will be updated when departure options become available. To get the latest information, sign up for travel advice email alerts.
Further information
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
