On 10 November 2021 the Lithuanian Government announced a State of Emergency in parts of Lithuania, in response to the ongoing migration situation along the border with Belarus. The State of Emergency applies to the full length of the Lithuanian-Belarus border, and the area 5km inland from the border. It also applies to accommodation facilities for migrants, designated by Lithuanian authorities in Pabradė, Medininkai, Kybartai, Rukla, Naujininkai, and 200m around these facilities.
Within areas subject to a State of Emergency, the following restrictions will apply:
Individuals intending to cross or having crossed the border shall be refused admission into Lithuania.
Individuals residing in designated migrant accommodation facilities, will have restricted access to use internet and phone communication. Exceptions will apply to communication with Lithuanian authorities or emergency services.
Only residents or individuals with proof of property ownership will be allowed to enter these areas.
Large events or gatherings are prohibited.
Vehicles, persons and luggage may be subject to checks for the purpose of tracing and seizing illicit firearms, ammunition, explosive, radioactive, toxic and other hazardous substances and devices, identifying and detaining offenders, safeguarding public policy and public peace, protecting the life, health and property of residents.
The temporary seizure of weapons, ammunition and parts of ammunition belonging to persons authorised to hold them, will be permitted.
You should abide by these regulations at all times and follow the instructions of Lithuanian authorities if you are in these areas.
Crime
There have been reports of petty theft and robbery. Beware of pickpockets, avoid unlit streets and parks at night, and be extra vigilant if you’re walking alone. Take extra care of your belongings in busy locations and on public transport. Don’t leave coats and handbags unattended in bars, pubs and clubs.
A small number of tourists have reported incidents on public transport and around the train station area of Vilnius where they have been approached by small groups of people asking for money or help. Be vigilant in these areas.
Don’t leave drinks unattended and be wary of accepting food and drink from strangers in bars, nightclubs and restaurants.
Car theft is a problem in certain areas. Lock unattended vehicles and hide contents. Use guarded car parks in cities, especially overnight.
 
There have been a number of thefts of bicycles in Vilnius.
In an emergency or if you wish to report a crime, call the police on 112.
Local travel
Public transport
On local buses and trolley-buses, remember to activate your ticket (whether it’s pre-purchased or bought from the driver) on the machine on board or you may be fined by undercover inspectors.
Taxis are reasonably priced. Make sure the meter is used. It is cheaper and safer to phone for a taxi from a recognised company than to hail one in the street. Ask your hotel reception to call one. Do not use unregistered taxis.
Klaipeda, Nida and Palanga
If you intend to walk along the Curonian Spit be aware that after a short distance the Spit forms part of Kaliningrad, which is a territory of the Russian Federation.
Road travel
In 2019 there were 184 road deaths in the Lithuania (source: Department for Transport). This equates to 6.6 road deaths per 100,000 of population and compares to the UK average of 2.6 road deaths per 100,000 of population in 2019.
If you are planning to drive in Lithuania, see information on Driving Abroad.
Licences and documentation
You can drive using a UK photo card driving licence. You must have suitable insurance and carry the original vehicle registration documents (copies are not acceptable).
If you’re living in Lithuania, check the Living in Guide for information on requirements for residents.
Driving a British car abroad
You may need a GB sticker or a UK sticker to drive your car outside the UK. From 28 September UK stickers will replace GB stickers. Check the GOV.UK Displaying number plates website for more information on what to do if you are driving outside the UK before, on or after 28 September 2021.
Road safety
Driving regulations
Winter tyres are a legal requirement in Lithuania between 10 November and 10 April.
Dipped headlights are compulsory all year round.
Speed limits, unless otherwise indicated, are 50km/h in towns, 90km/h on country roads and 110km/h on highways.
Don’t drink and drive. The legal blood-alcohol limit is 0.04%. Those found over the limit face a fine and possible imprisonment.
See the European Commission, AA and RAC guides for advice on driving in Lithuania.
Bringing a vehicle into Lithuania
When arriving in Lithuania with a car, border officials will ask for a passport which is valid for the duration of your stay, the original vehicle registration documents (copies are not acceptable) and evidence of international vehicle insurance (Green Card).
Winter travel
Be prepared for extremely cold and possibly hazardous weather if you intend to travel to Lithuania in the winter (October to March). There’s likely to be snow or ice on the ground and temperatures may drop to -25°C or below.
