This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Lithuania as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Lithuania to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Lithuania
For information on entering Lithuania, see Entry Requirements
You must wear a mask at marketplaces, public transport boarding points such as bus stops and train stations, in shops and indoor public spaces. You do not have to wear a face covering when eating or drinking or when exercising. You are encouraged to wear a facemask at all other times when in public. Children under six do not need to wear a mask at any time. In unpopulated areas, no one is required to wear a mask.
Shoppers are requested to pay by card whenever possible. Catering facilities may serve food and drinks in open spaces, and sell food for takeaway or delivery. Indoor activity by catering facilities, restaurants, cafes, bars and entertainment venues is permitted but only between 08:00 and 23:00. Social distancing measures apply.
Health
During the period of quarantine, the following arrangements on provision of healthcare apply:
Provision of inpatient personal health care services:
scheduled operations may be postponed
scheduled hospitalisations for diagnostic and therapeutic services may be postponed
visits to patients shall be permitted from 18 May at the discretion of the patient’s physician. Visitors should follow any rules specific to the site they are in.
provision of medical rehabilitation services may be restricted, except where failure to do so would result in a patient’s disability
Provision of outpatient health care services:
essential remote medical and dental services will continue, including provision of prescription medicines and medical aids, outpatient nursing and palliative care. But non-urgent and non-essential services will not be available
from 18 May, dental practices may resume routine services
Health screening
British nationals with Lithuanian residency, or the right to work or study in Lithuania, or who are family members of Lithuanian citizens, may enter the country, but will be required to self-isolate for 14 days (unless entering from Estonia or Latvia – see neighbouring countries). While in isolation, you must:
not leave your accommodation without medical permission
not have guests/visitors
organise for essential provisions to be delivered by municipal authorities, friends, family or delivery services
consult with a GP by phone/email to arrange extensions to prescriptions
measure your temperature on a daily basis
call the Emergency Response Centre on 112, or Covid-19 hotline on 1808, if you develop a fever, cough or experience difficulty breathing
Most foreign nationals, including British nationals, will be screened and tested for coronavirus on entry into Lithuania, and will be asked to sign a commitment to comply with self-isolation requirements for 14 days. Those refusing to sign or without suitable accommodation will stay in municipal accommodation for the duration of the self-isolation period. Municipal transportation will be provided to all who have no transport of their own and those staying in municipal accommodation.
Individuals staying in municipal accommodation will have their own room or one room per family (if travelling as a family unit) and at least one bathroom for every two rooms. Municipal premises will include means for cleaning and disinfection, waste disposal, bedding and facilities for collecting unclean clothing, where a laundry service is not available.
Municipalities will also be responsible for providing meals (taking into account dietary requirements), as well as delivering essential supplies (medicine, hygiene items, clothing), or will allow them to be provided by relatives.
British nationals who are already in isolation in Lithuania will be able to continue to self-isolate in their place of residence, if they live alone or are able to isolate themselves from others in the household. They will also have to sign a commitment to comply with self-isolation requirements.
Breaches of isolation requirements will result in a fine and a requirement to move to municipal accommodation for the remainder of the self-isolation period.
Further health support
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Lithuania
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Lithuania, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Further information
Further details on Lithuania’s response to the COVID-19 pandemic are available in English on the Lithuanian Government Corona Stop website.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
