The Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) advises against all non-essential travel to Lithuania, based on the current assessment of COVID-19 risks in the country.
The FCDO is not advising those already travelling in Lithuania to leave at this time. Travellers should follow the advice of the local authorities on how best to protect themselves and others, including any measures that they bring in to control the virus. You should contact your tour operator or airline if you have any questions about your return journey.
If you are returning to the UK from Lithuania, you will need to self-isolate on your return (unless you are exempt). Check the latest guidance for England, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales.
Travel may be subject to entry restrictions
British nationals travelling to Lithuania from Scotland, who do not display symptoms of COVID-19, do not need to self-isolate on arrival. From 21 December, British nationals travelling to Lithuania from Northern Ireland will no longer need to self-isolate on arrival, however, British nationals travelling to Lithuania from England and Wales will need to self-isolate for 10 days. You may leave isolation earlier if you have a negative COVID-19 PCR test, taken no earlier than 48 hours before your arrival, or taken in Lithuania after your arrival. Failure to comply with isolation requirements could result in a fine of between 60 and 1,500 Euros
British nationals may leave Lithuania before the end of their isolation period in order to return to the UK/their country of residence.
See Entry requirements for more information before you plan to travel.
Preparing for your return journey to the UK
If you’re returning to the UK from overseas, you will need to:
provide your journey and contact details before you travel
check if you need to self-isolate on your return
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
If you’re planning travel to Lithuania, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCDO’s guidance on foreign travel insurance.
There is a general threat from terrorism. There may be increased security in place over the festive period, including at Christmas markets and other major events that might attract large crowds. You should remain vigilant and follow the advice of the local authorities.
The UK has left the European Union. The rules on travel to EU countries will stay the same until 31 December 2020. This page will be updated with country-specific information for travellers to Lithuania as things change. Sign up for email alerts and view the latest updates for UK nationals travelling to and living in Europe.
Most visits to Lithuania are trouble free.
Terrorist attacks in Lithuania can’t be ruled out. See Terrorism
Petty crime is common. See Crime
If you’re living in or moving to Lithuania, visit our Living in Lithuania guide in addition to this travel advice.
Call 112 if you need to contact the emergency services.
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.
The Overseas Business Risk service offers information and advice for British companies operating overseas on how to manage political, economic, and business security-related risks.
