Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Iran on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
Iran has suspended entry for citizens from a number of countries (though currently not the UK) and commercial flights are less frequent than normal. You should check the latest information with your airline or travel agent.
A number of airlines have suspended flights to and from Iran. Some commercial airlines, such as Qatar Airways, Turkish Airlines, Emirates and Iran Air, are operating, but services are limited. If you’re transiting a third country while travelling to or from Iran, you may wish to check their latest entry requirements.
Travellers arriving from a number of countries by air, land and sea will be required to undergo a COVID-19 PCR test on arrival (costing 2.3m Rial), self isolate at their homes for an ‘appropriate duration’, and observe relevant protocols from the Ministry of Health.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Iran.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID-19. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Iran
It is now mandatory to wear face masks in enclosed public places. You may incur a fine if you do not comply.
Measures and restrictions are in place in Iran, including temporary closure of non-essential businesses and shrines, and cancellation of some public events. Each province is able to introduce restrictions to respond to localised peaks in infections. This may include lockdown and restriction of movement, and may be introduced with little warning.
Internal travel restrictions, including to important tourism and pilgrimage areas, may be imposed at short notice.
Accommodation
Hotels are authorised to open in Iran but you should check in advance as restrictions can change at short notice, and in practice some may remain closed.
Public places and services
Please refer to Travel in Iran section.
Healthcare in Iran
Some medical facilities are currently under strain due to COVID-19.
If you think you have COVID-19 symptoms, you are advised to take a test and to self-isolate at home until you receive the results. If the symptoms are not serious, you should continue to self-isolate at home but if the symptoms persist and/or worsen then you are advised to go to a hospital for treatment. If you are a mono-British national, you should contact your Travel Insurance provider for advice; if you test positive for COVID-19, you will be referred to a specialist Coronavirus hospital or unit.
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Iran
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
