This page has information on travelling to Iran.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport from the UK, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Iran set and enforce entry rules. If you’re unsure how Iran’s entry requirements apply to you, contact its UK embassy, high commission or consulate.
You should also consider checking with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
All travellers
You will need a visa to enter Iran as a visitor.
You should make your visa application well in advance of your date of travel. The application process for an Iranian visa can be long and unpredictable. The Iranian Embassy has told the FCDO that to get a visa you must either apply as part of an organised tour, or have a sponsor in Iran. Check with the Iranian embassy for more information and advice.
Check the expiry date of your visa before travelling. If you overstay your visa, you may have to remain in Iran until the situation is resolved. Some British nationals have experienced considerable difficulties trying to get visas from private online visa agencies.
Women, and girls over the age of nine, should wear a headscarf in their visa application photos.
British citizens may enter and stay on Kish Island for 14 days or less by obtaining a visa on arrival. However, you must meet the following conditions, or you may be refused entry:
You must arrange for a certified escort/guide, through an Iranian travel agent. The travel agent must inform the Iranian Ministry of Foreign Affairs about your visit at least 2 weeks in advance of travel, and receive confirmation that a visa will be issued on arrival. Advice and a list of registered travel agents can be obtained from the nearest Iranian Embassy or Consulate.
You must have a hotel reservation prior to travelling. Your guide must pass a copy of the hotel reservation confirmation to the Immigration Office at Kish Airport at least 48 hours before your arrival, and meet you at the airport upon your arrival.
Some travellers have occasionally been denied entry to Kish without explanation. If you’re denied entry, you should follow the advice of your airline or travel agent.
Your passport must be valid for a minimum period of 6 months from the date a visa application for Iran is submitted.
If you’re fully vaccinated
All non-Iranian nationals must be fully vaccinated and present a valid vaccine certificate on arrival. At least 14 days must have passed since the final dose of your vaccine.
You must also have a negative COVID PCR test certificate performed by an approved centre of your departure country. This test should be taken not more than 72 hours before departure to be accepted for travel to Iran. You should also check the individual requirements of your airline as these can vary.
You may also be tested for COVID on arrival. People testing positive for COVID may be required to isolate for 14 days at your own expense.
On arrival, passengers may be asked to fill in a paper form giving their name, contact details and address.
Proof of vaccination status
You must present proof that you have been fully vaccinated to enter Iran.
Residents of Iran
Iranian nationals without a valid PCR certificate will be directed to quarantine locations for 14 days and will incur associated medical and accommodation costs.
If you’re not fully vaccinated
If you are not an Iranian national and you are not fully vaccinated, then you will not be allowed entry to Iran.
Residents of Iran
Iranian nationals without a valid PCR certificate will be directed to quarantine locations for 14 days and will incur associated medical and accommodation costs.
Children and young people
Children aged 12 and under can follow the rules for fully vaccinated travellers to enter Iran.
Under Iranian law, a female parent travelling with her children must have the (usually verbal) permission of the father to take them out of Iran. This is assumed to be the case by Iranian immigration authorities unless the father has petitioned the court, and/or the court has ruled to prevent the children travelling. For further information, contact the Iranian Embassy or Consulate nearest you.
If you’re transiting through Iran
Transiting is when you pass through one country on the way to your final destination.
If you’re transiting through Tehran airport, you should check visa requirements with your airline and the Iranian Embassy.
Exemptions
There are no exemptions to Iran’s entry requirements.
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
If you are visiting Iran, your passport should be valid for 6 months from the date you arrive.
Check with your travel provider to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) aren’t valid for entry into Iran but are accepted by the local authorities for exit from Iran. If you’ve entered Iran on a British passport which has been lost, stolen or damaged the British Embassy may be able to issue an ETD. Before leaving Iran using an ETD, you’ll need to get an exit visa from the Iranian Bureau of Alien and Foreign Immigrants Affairs.
Previous travel to Israel
If your passport contains an Israeli stamp or stamps from other countries’ border crossing points with Israel, you may be refused entry to Iran.
Dual nationality
Under Iranian law, all Iranian nationals must travel to and from Iran using an Iranian passport. Even if you don’t consider yourself to be Iranian, you may be regarded as an Iranian national by the Iranian authorities – e.g., if your father is Iranian, or if you’re married to an Iranian man.
In order to return to the UK you’ll need to demonstrate to the Iranian authorities that you have a right to return. At present, the Iranian authorities are accepting the presentation of a British passport on departure if you don’t have a UK visa in your Iranian passport. However, the Iranian authorities could change their position on this and it’s officially illegal in Iran to hold two nationalities.
Yellow fever
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
