At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Coronavirus
There is an ongoing outbreak of coronavirus (COVID-19). The virus originated in China, but cases have been confirmed in several other countries, including Iran, where there have been a number of fatalities.
Some health measures have been put in place in parts of Iran, including temporary closures of schools, universities and public events. Some airlines are no longer flying in and out of Iran and many neighbouring countries have closed their borders or started monitoring travellers from Iran. There may be further measures introduced at short notice. You should comply with any additional screening measures put in place by the authorities, and keep up to date with information from your tour operator, transport or accommodation provider on the impact on any existing travel plans.
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of respiratory diseases, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
You can find more information about cases in Iran on the TravelHealthPro country page.
Local medical care
Medical facilities are reasonable in the major cities but poor in remote areas. Many health professionals speak some English. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 115 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment
