!
Warning
FCDO advises against all travel to Iran.

Your travel insurance could be invalidated if you travel against advice from the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO).  
FCDO advises against all travel to Iran  
FCDO advises against all travel to Iran. If you are a British national already in Iran, either resident or visitor, carefully consider your presence there and the risks you take by staying.
British and British-Iranian dual nationals are at significant risk of arrest, questioning or detention. Having a British passport or connections to the UK can be reason enough for the Iranian authorities to detain you.  
Find out more about why FCDO advises against travel.  
Political situation in Iran  
Israel continues to operate militarily against Iran. Reports suggest that a wide range of military, nuclear and civil installations across the country have been hit. Major cities have been affected, and the Israeli Defence Forces have issued evacuation warnings for some residential districts. A significant Iranian military response is ongoing. Due to the ongoing security situation, we have taken the precautionary measure to temporarily withdraw UK staff from Iran. Our embassy continues to operate remotely.
The situation could escalate quickly and poses significant risks. We continue to advise against all travel to Iran.
If you are in Iran
Air, sea and land routes are under the control of the Iranian authorities. You should not assume that ports and borders will remain open.  
There is a very high risk of arrest, questioning and detention for British nationals and British-Iranian dual nationals.  
Holding a British passport or having perceived connections to the UK can be reason enough for the Iranian authorities to detain you. If you are detained in Iran, you could face months or years of imprisonment.
Travel by air
Iranian airspace remains closed.
Travel by land
Iran’s borders with neighbouring countries may have restrictions for foreign travellers and may close at short notice. If you plan to depart Iran across a land border and consider it safe to do so, check the travel advice of the country you intend to enter before travelling to the border, including visa requirements.
Entry to countries bordering Iran is not straightforward, and some countries will ask for additional paperwork for British passport holders. If you intend to leave overland you do so at your own risk. Should you require assistance, including with additional paperwork, contact the FCDO.
Armenia-Iran border crossing 
British nationals do not need a visa for Armenia for stays of up to 180 days per year. Check our travel advice for Armenia for the latest information. 
Azerbaijan-Iran border crossing 
To cross this border, we must register your details with the Azerbaijani authorities in advance so that we can provide you with a registration code. You will also require a visa to enter Azerbaijan. Check our travel advice for Azerbaijan for the latest information. 
Turkey-Iran border crossing 
To cross this border,  you will need to request facilitation from the British Embassy in Ankara by contacting the FCDO. Check our travel advice for Turkey for the latest information. 
Turkmenistan-Iran border crossing 
To cross this border, you require special permission from the Turkmenistan authorities in advance. This can be facilitated by the British Embassy in Ashgabat by contacting the FCDO. Without their prior approval, you will not be allowed to cross the border. You must also have a valid flight booked to depart Turkmenistan within 24 hours of crossing the border. Check our travel advice for Turkmenistan for the latest information.
Monitor this travel advice and other media to ensure you have the latest updates.
Be aware that FCDO advises against travel to some parts of countries that border Iran, including within Afghanistan, Iraq and Pakistan.
Read FCDO advice if you’re affected by a crisis abroad.
Limited UK government support  
UK government support is extremely limited in Iran. No face-to-face consular assistance will be possible in an emergency and the UK government will not be able to help you if you get into difficulty in Iran. 
Travel insurance 
If you choose to travel to Iran against FCDO advice, research your destinations and get appropriate travel insurance. Insurance should cover your itinerary, planned activities and expenses in an emergency. 
About FCDO travel advice  
FCDO provides advice about risks of travel to help you make informed decisions. Find out more about FCDO travel advice. 
Get travel advice updates
Sign up to get email notifications when this travel advice is updated.
Follow FCDO:   
travel advice on X
travel advice on Facebook
Travel Aware on Instagram 
