Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Niger on the TravelHealthPro website.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
The Ministry of Health website provides details (in French) of where to go for testing in Niger.
International travel
Air borders are open and international passenger flights are operating. International roads are open at border points. Check with your travel company for the latest information.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Niger.
Returning to the UK
Travelling from and returning to the UK
Check what you must do to travel abroad and return to England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
If you plan to pass through another country to return to the UK, check the travel advice for the country you’re transiting.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Niger
Flights within Niger remain limited.
Accommodation
Most hotels are open. Some have social distancing measures in place but adherence to social distancing and COVID-19 preventive measures varies.
Public places and services
Restaurants, shops and bars are open.
Healthcare in Niger
Medical facilities are poor. Serious medical treatment would require evacuation to Europe. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation.
Private hospitals and clinics are available, such as Polyclinic Magori (+227 20741291, or +227 20743347 in an emergency) and Clinique Gamkalley (+227 96964886, or +227 20734639 in an emergency).
You should contact your insurance and/or medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Niger
Wherever possible British nationals should aim to be vaccinated in the country where they live. As further information is available about the national vaccination programme, this page will be updated. Sign up to get email notifications.
British nationals can receive vaccinations under the Nigerien COVID-19 vaccination programme at the UN Clinic in Niamey (including second doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine).
The Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) is the UK authority responsible for assessing the safety, quality and efficacy of vaccines. It has authorised the Pfizer/BioNTech, Oxford/AstraZeneca and Moderna vaccines for temporary supply and use in the UK. Find out more about MHRA approval for these vaccines.
British nationals living overseas should seek medical advice from their local healthcare provider in the country where they reside. Information about vaccines used in other national programmes, including regulatory status, should be available from the local authorities. This list of Stringent Regulatory Authorities recognised by the World Health Organisation may also be a useful source of additional information. Find out more information about the COVID-19 vaccines on the World Health Organization COVID-19 vaccines page.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
