This page has information on travelling to Niger.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport from the UK, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Niger set and enforce entry rules. If you’re unsure how Niger’s entry requirements apply to you, contact its UK embassy, high commission or consulate.
All travellers
Entry to Niger is only permitted for Nigerien nationals, persons with valid residency and foreign nationals with valid visas.
For further information contact the embassy, high commission or consulate which covers the country or territory you’re travelling to. You should also consider checking with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
If you’re fully vaccinated
Fully vaccinated travellers (not including boosters) do not require a PCR test to enter Niger. You must have received the last dose at least 4 weeks prior to travel and show proof of vaccination on arrival. Fully vaccinated travellers are not required to quarantine on arrival.
Proof of vaccination status
Fully vaccinated travellers must show proof of vaccination and the last dose must have been given at least 4 weeks prior to travel. Fully vaccinated means a complete first course of vaccinations (i.e. 2 doses of Pfizer, Moderna or Astra Zeneca, or one dose of Johnson & Johnson), this does not include boosters.
You can use the UK’s proof of COVID-19 recovery and vaccination record to demonstrate your vaccination record when entering Niger. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccination status.
If you’re not fully vaccinated
Travellers who have not been vaccinated against COVID-19 must present a negative COVID-19 PCR test certificate taken within 72 hours before arrival to the airport authorities. Before travelling, you should register and upload your PCR test results online on the Trusted Travel site. Unvaccinated travellers will need to quarantine for 7 days.
You can find a full list of approved COVID-19 testing laboratories on the Trusted Travel website. Details of how this policy is being implemented are not fully clear at this stage. You may be subject to temperature checks upon arrival.
Unvaccinated travellers who are staying in Niger for more than 7 days will need to quarantine at their final destination (home, hotel) for 7 days. On the 7th day of quarantine, you must take a COVID-19 antigen test at a Government agreed testing centre. If the test is negative, you can end your quarantine. If the test is positive, you must follow local guidance on quarantine procedures.
If you’re transiting through Niger
Transiting is when you pass through one country on the way to your final destination. Check with your airline before departing.
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
Passport validity
Your passport should be valid for the proposed duration of your stay. No additional period of validity beyond this is needed.
Visas
You will need a valid visa to enter Niger. You can now apply for a visa from the Nigerien Consulate in Milton Keynes (45 Ashford Crescent, Grange Farm, Milton Keynes, MK8 0LZ; Phone :+44 1908 038401l; Email: info@nigerconsulate.org.uk).
Visit the consulate’s website for application forms, payment, and more information on requirements.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents are accepted for entry, airside transit and exit from Niger.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
All arrivals in Niger require a yellow fever certificate. Check additional requirements by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
