At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Coronavirus
There is an ongoing outbreak of coronavirus (COVID-19) in China, but cases have been confirmed in sub-Saharan African countries, including Burkina Faso and Senegal. The Nigerien authorities have introduced a number of measures to limit the spread of the virus.
Niamey International Airport has heightened screening measures in place for visitors arriving in Niger, including systematic temperature testing, issuing Government recommendations on self-isolation and individual and collective hygiene. On 17 March we received reports that Niamey International Airport will close for two weeks from midnight on 19 March. Land borders will also be closed. In addition, the Government has stated that:
Visitors and Nigerien nationals arriving from countries affected by the COVID-19 pandemic must self-isolate for 14 days.
You should comply with any additional screening measures put in place by the authorities. Keep up to date with information from your tour operator, transport or accommodation provider on the impact on any existing travel plans.
If you need further information about entry requirements, contact the local immigration authorities or the nearest Nigerien embassy. You should also check with your airline or travel company for the latest information.
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
Health risks
In the 2010 Report on the Global AIDS Epidemic the UNAIDS/WHO Working Group estimated that around 53,000 adults aged 15 or over in Niger were living with HIV; the prevalence percentage was estimated at around 0.8% of the adult population compared to the prevalence percentage in adults in the UK of around 0.2%. You should exercise normal precautions to avoid exposure to HIV/AIDS.
Medical treatment
Medical facilities are poor, even in Niamey. Serious medical treatment would mean evacuation to Europe. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation.
Private hospitals and clinics are available, such as Polyclinic Magori (+227 20741291, or +227 20743347 in an emergency) and Clinique Gamkalley (+227 96964886, or +227 20734639 in an emergency).
You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
