!
Warning
FCDO advises against all travel to parts of Niger.

This section has safety advice for regions of Niger. It only covers regions where FCDO has specific advice.
You should also read FCDO’s overall travel advice and safety and security advice.
Northern and eastern Niger
Local authorities are extremely sensitive about foreigners travelling out of Tahoua to other parts of Niger in the east and the north.
These roads in northern Niger are permanently closed to tourists, except with special authorisation:
Chirfa (Djado) / Djanet (Algeria)
Achouloma (north Djado) / Salvador Pass (Libya)
Adrar Bous (north Aïr) / Djanet (Algeria)
Adrar Bous (north Aïr) / In Azawa (Algeria)
Agadez / Arlit / Iferouane
Agadez / Tahoua
The MNJ armed group has launched attacks in the north including the use of landmines, and Islamist terrorist groups have previously launched attacks in Agadez, Arlit and against a prison in Niamey. Attacks against tourists are known to take place at El Meki between Agadez and Timia. The Aïr and Ténéré regions are particularly prone to attacks.
An official curfew has been implemented by the authorities in the whole of the Diffa region since 2014. Since 2019 this has prohibited the movement of motorised vehicles from 8pm to 6am. There is also a general curfew from 10pm to 6am.
Western Niger
A state of emergency has been in place in the urban municipality of Tillabéri since 2019. The movement of motorbikes and cars is banned from 7pm to 6am, and the movement of pedestrians is banned from 10pm to 6am. Public meetings are banned, unless expressly permitted by the authorities. Defence and security forces are authorised to carry out searches, and to check IDs, both day and night.
Following an attack in 2020 which killed 6 French nationals and 2 Nigeriens in Kouré, Tillabéri, a state of emergency is in place for the whole of Tillabéri apart from Niamey.
A state of emergency has also been in place in Ouallam, Ayorou, Bankilare, Abala and Banibongou (Tillabéri region) and Tassara and Tillia (Tahoua region) since 2017.
Southern Niger
A state of emergency is in place in the states of Borno and Yobe in Nigeria, which border Niger. The border areas of the Maradi region are increasingly prone to banditry. Kidnap for ransom and robberies are commonplace.
In 2020 an American was kidnapped (and later rescued in a US military operation in Nigeria) in Massalata near the border with Nigeria.
