!
Warning
FCDO advises against all travel to parts of Niger.

You should also read FCDO’s overall travel advice and safety advice for regions of Niger.
Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attacks globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.    
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Niger
Terrorists are very likely to try to carry out attacks in Niger.
Several terrorist groups operate in Niger, including Jama’a Nusrat ul-Islam wa al-Muslimin (JNIM), Islamic State and Boko Haram.
There is a heightened risk of attack in Niamey. Terrorist  attacks could be indiscriminate and occur without warning. You should be especially vigilant and where possible avoid places visited by foreign nationals, such as: 
diplomatic premises
conference centres
locations popular with tourists and foreign nationals
sporting and cultural events
shopping centres
transport hubs
religious sites and places of worship, particularly churches
national parks and nature reserves; including the Parc du W
foreign, national or local government buildings
large crowds
There may be a heightened risk of attack during election periods and religious festivals including the month of Ramadan. Stay aware of your surroundings, keep up to date with local media reports and follow the advice of local authorities.
There are frequent attacks across Niger, particularly in the Diffa and Tillabéri regions.
Examples of significant attacks include:
in October 2024, one person was killed in an attack in Seno (approximately 7km south west) of Niamey city limits   
in September 2024, 2 health workers were killed in Weze Bangou, Tillabéri
in September 2024, around 27 soldiers were killed in an attack on the Nigerien army, in Niaktire, Tillabéri
in August 2024, 8 humanitarian workers were killed in Maine Soroa, Diffa
in July 2024, 2 guards were killed in an ISSP prison break of Koutoukale prison, Tillabéri
in May 2024, 20 civilians were killed in a village attack in Diambala, Tillabéri
in 2023, around 30 soldiers were killed in Takanamat, Tahoua
in 2023, 18 people were killed in an attack on a refugee camp in Tillia, Tahoua
in 2022, 2 people were killed in an IED explosion in Bougoum (approximately 5km from Niamey city limits)
Terrorist kidnap
There’s a very high threat of kidnapping throughout Niger, including Niamey. Jamaat Nusrat al-Islam wal Muslimeen (JNIM) and Islamic State Sahel Province (ISSP), operate throughout Mali, Niger and Burkina Faso; and Islamic State West Africa (ISWA) and Boko Haram operate in the Lake Chad Basin.   
A number of foreign nationals have been kidnapped in Niger in recent years, by Al-Qaeda and Islamic State affiliated groups. 
British nationals are seen as legitimate targets, including tourists, humanitarian aid workers, journalists and business travellers. If you are kidnapped, the reason for your presence is unlikely to protect you or secure your safe release.  
If you’re working or travelling in Niger, you should be aware of the risk of terrorist kidnapping. You should maintain a high level of vigilance at all times, including when travelling. You should be particularly vigilant when walking (in Niamey, you should not cross the bridges over the River Niger on foot at any time), in crowded public places, including camps for displaced people, religious gatherings and insecure spaces like places of worship, markets, shopping malls, hotels, bars, night clubs, restaurants, nature reserves and national parks, and transport hubs. You should make sure you have carefully considered the threat and have reasonable, proportionate mitigation measures in place.  
The long-standing policy of the British government is not to make substantive concessions to hostage takers. The British government considers that paying ransoms and releasing prisoners builds the capability of terrorist groups and finances their activities. This can, in turn, increase the risk of further hostage-taking. The Terrorism Act (2000) makes payments to terrorist’s illegal.
Security situation in Niger
If you choose to travel to Niger, remain vigilant and monitor local media.
Be careful when walking in crowded or insecure public places, including:
camps for displaced people
religious gatherings and places of worship
markets and shopping malls
hotels
bars, night clubs and restaurants
nature reserves and national parks
transport hubs
Do not cross the bridges over the River Niger on foot at any time.
Travel within or out of Niger is at your own risk. The FCDO cannot offer advice on the safety of travelling to any departure point within Niger. 
There could be disruptions to commercial flights from Niamey’s Diori International Airport at short notice.
Political situation
In July 2023, the Conseil National pour la Sauvegarde de la Patrie (CNSP) launched a military coup which led to protests and unrest.
The situation returned to calm following the coup but violent protests and changes to the security situation can arise quickly and without warning.
Protests, marches and demonstrations can occur with little prior notice and can be violent. If you become aware of any protests, marches or demonstrations, you should move away from the area immediately, as the atmosphere can change quickly and without warning.
Crime
Levels of crime, especially in the capital Niamey, are high. Thefts, robberies and residential break-ins can occur at any time. Take sensible precautions to keep important items like money, passports, jewellery and mobile phones safe.
The areas around the Gaweye Hotel, National Museum and Petit Marché in Niamey are particularly prone to muggings. Avoid walking alone there, and do not cross the bridges over the River Niger on foot at any time. Be vigilant when walking anywhere in the city. Walking at night is more dangerous as there’s a lack of street lighting.
There have been attacks on people, including westerners, as they are leaving banks and ATMs. Be careful when using ATMs on the street, never do this at night-time, and if possible use the ATMs available in most large hotels. 
Car thieves often target 4-wheel-drive vehicles. Make sure car doors are locked at all times.
Banditry, smuggling and other criminal activity is common in border areas (particularly Maradi, Tillabéri and Diffa). Take care and avoid crossing borders after dark.
There have also been hold-ups and robberies on public buses between Tahoua and Agadez and between Agadez and Arlit. In some cases people have been killed.
Kidnapping for ransom 
Kidnapping by criminal groups is widespread across Niger, Mali and Burkina Faso. There has been an increase in kidnappings of western nationals and gangs operate throughout Niger, including Niamey. There is a possibility that criminal groups could sell people they kidnap as hostages to terrorist organisations.
British nationals are seen as legitimate targets, including tourists, humanitarian aid workers, journalists and business travellers. If you are kidnapped, the reason for your presence is unlikely to protect you or secure your safe release.
Scams
British nationals are increasingly being targeted by internet and other scams. The scams come in many forms – romance and friendship, business ventures, or work and employment opportunities. Victims are at great financial risk.
Laws and cultural differences
Niger is a Muslim country. Respect local traditions, customs, laws and religions at all times. Be aware of your actions and dress in case they offend, especially during the month of Ramadan or if you visit religious areas.
If you commit a crime you will be subject to local law. Local prison conditions are harsh.
Personal ID
You should carry identification at all times. This would normally be your passport or residence permit. If you drive outside the main towns, authorities are very likely to ask you to produce identification.
Ramadan
Ramadan is a holy month for Muslims. The dates vary by year and country. During this time, do not:
eat, drink, smoke or chew gum in public in the daytime
play loud music or dance
swear in public
Get more advice when you arrive from your tour guide, hotel or business contacts.    
Using cameras in secure areas
Do not photograph military or government installations.
LGBT+ travellers
There is no law criminalising same-sex sexual activity in Niger. However, there are laws under the Penal Code of 1993 covering ‘public outrage against modesty’ and ‘immodest or unnatural acts’. An ‘unnatural act’ with a person of the same sex who is under the age of 21 can be punishable by a fine of up to 100,000 francs and up to 3 years imprisonment. Although we are not aware of any prosecutions under this legislation, attitudes within society towards LGBT+ people can be discriminatory.
There are no laws prohibiting discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation, and no legal recognition of same-sex couples.
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Transport risks
FCDO continues to advise against all travel to Niger. Travel within or out of Niger is at your own risk. The FCDO cannot offer advice on the safety of travelling to any departure point within Niger.
Road travel
If you are planning to drive in Niger, see information on driving abroad.
You can drive in Niger using a 1968 International Driving Permit (IDP) for up to 3 months. If you’re staying longer than 3 months, you will need to get a Nigerien licence.
You cannot buy an IDP outside the UK, so get one before you travel.
Carry your UK driving licence and car registration documents with you at all times.
Road safety
FCDO advises against all travel outside the capital Niamey. 
The Government of Niger will only allow foreign nationals to travel outside of Niamey if you get their permission and are escorted by Nigerien security and military forces. 
There have been reports of landmines being used in Burkina Faso on the road between Ouagadougou and Niamey.  
There is minimal infrastructure in rural or desert areas, including a lack of phone signal or access to healthcare, food and water. Some roads are pot-holed, conditions are often worse during and just after rainy season. Driving standards are poor. Vehicles often drive without lights at night and there is little street lighting.
See also regional risks.
Public transport
Avoid using buses or taxis where possible.
Buses operate on routes between Niamey and other large towns, but distances are long and buses are prone to mechanical failure. There have also been hold-ups and robberies on public buses. See ‘Crime’.
Taxis are available, but are often in poor mechanical condition.
Air travel
Flight options may be limited and could change at short notice. Check with your travel company or airline for the latest information. 
Flights within Niger remain limited.
Extreme weather and natural disasters
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards. 
Floods and landslides
The rainy season in Niger is from June to October. Torrential rains can cause floods and landslides. Monitor local weather reports and expect difficulties when travelling to affected areas.
