The Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) advises against all but essential travel to:
the whole of Niger based on the current assessment of COVID-19 risks
In addition and for security reasons the FCDO advises against all travel to:
all areas of the country north of the city of Abalak, including the Aïr Massif region
the province of Agadez (including the road linking Assamakato Agadez and the city of Agadez)
areas of Tahoua province north of the city of Tahoua, including the city itself
the area of Tillabéri province north of Niamey, including the road from Niamey to Gao and the road from Niamey to Menaka
areas within 40km of the south-western border with Burkina Faso
areas within 40km of the border with Nigeria in Diffa, Zinder and Maradi provinces
the Parc du W, plus the contiguous Dosso and Tamou hunting zones
The FCDO advises against all but essential travel to:
the rest of Niger, including the capital city Niamey
Travel to Niger is subject to entry restrictions
entry to Niger is only permitted for Nigerien nationals, persons with valid residency and foreign nationals with valid visas
from 1 August 2020 if you are eligible for entry, you will need to present a negative COVID-19 test certificate less than 72 hours old to the airport authorities, or be tested at the airport.
you will be subject to temperature checks upon arrival
if your COVID-19 test is negative, you will have to self-isolate at your final destination (home, hotel) for seven days. On the seventh day of self-isolation you will need to take a second COVID-19 test; if the result is negative you can end self-isolation and if the result is positive you will have to follow government isolation procedures.If you test positive for COVID-19 upon arriving in Niger you will have to isolate in government facilities for 14 days.
a negative COVID-19 certificate that is less than 72 hours old will also be required to depart Niger. See Returning to UK section
See Entry requirements for more information before you plan to travel.
Return travel to the UK is subject to self-isolation requirements
If you’re returning to the UK, you will need to:
provide your journey and contact details
self-isolate for 14 days
Check the guidance on entering or returning to the UK.
If your return journey to the UK transits another country, you should check whether it is subject to a travel ban or any other additional requirements. If so, contact your travel provider.
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
If you’re planning travel to Niger , find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCDO’s guidance on foreign travel insurance.
For information about COVID-19 vaccines, see the Coronavirus page.
Consular assistance and support to British people in Niger is provided in the first instance by the British High Commission in Accra. See Consular Assistance.
Terrorists are very likely to try to carry out attacks in Niger, including kidnapping. There is particular instability in the Tillabéri region of Niger, near the country’s borders with Mali and Burkina Faso. There is also particular instability in Diffa, near the Lake Chad Basin. There is also a threat of retaliatory attacks due to Niger’s participation in the French-led intervention in Mali and due to its involvement in the regional fight to counter violent extremist groups. See Terrorism
States of emergency are in place in several states across the country. See Local travel
Levels of crime, especially in the capital Niamey, are high. See Crime
You should carry some form of identification at all times. See Local laws and customs
You can contact the emergency services by calling + 227 20 73 37 43/44 (or 17 local number) for the police, and +227 20 73 21 13 (or 18 local number) for the fire service.
