Terrorists are very likely to try to carry out attacks in Niger, including in Niamey. In August 2022 an IED attack took place in Bougoum (approximately 5km from the city limits of Niamey) killing two civilians. There is particular instability in the Tillabéri region of Niger, near the country’s borders with Mali and Burkina Faso. There is also particular instability in Diffa, near the Lake Chad Basin. There is a threat of retaliatory attacks due to Niger’s participation in the French-led intervention in Mali and due to its involvement in the regional fight to counter violent extremist groups.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out more about the global threat from terrorism.
Terrorists are very likely to try to carry out attacks in Niger. There is a heightened risk of attack in Niamey. Attacks could be indiscriminate and occur without warning, including in places visited by foreigners. You should be especially vigilant and where possible avoid places frequented by foreigners, including diplomatic premises, conference centres, banks, bars, hotels, night clubs, restaurants, shopping areas, markets, supermarkets, public areas such as tourist attractions, airports and other transport hubs, places of worship (particularly churches), national parks and nature reserves, and businesses with Western interests. You should also avoid areas of symbolic importance, for example foreign, national or local government facilities. Large crowds may also be a target. You should be vigilant, monitor announcements and local media, and follow the advice of local authorities. Take particular care during festivities, and religious and public holiday periods.
Avoid all large gatherings, including during national day celebrations and public holidays. Large gatherings can also include music festivals, sporting events and any public marches or demonstrations. There may be a heightened risk of attack during election periods and religious festivals including the month of Ramadan.
During public holidays and festivals, including New Year celebrations, security measures in Niger can be heightened due to the ongoing threat posed by terrorist organisations. During such periods you should exercise increased vigilance, limit your movements and continue to avoid large gatherings. If you think a particular venue would present a good target for terrorist activities then you should avoid it.
The government declared a state of emergency on 3 March 2017 in Diffa region, in Ouallam, Ayorou, Bankilare, Abala and Banibongou (Tillabéri region) and Tassara and Tillia (Tahoua region). This was in response to an escalation in terrorist attacks, especially in the Tillabéri region.
There have been multiple recent attacks in Niger, particularly in the Diffa and Tillabéri regions. Notable recent attacks include:
On 11 August 2022, an IED explosion took place in Bougoum (approximately 5km from Niamey city limits) killing two civilians.
On 7 June 2022, a Gendarme Post in Bougoum was attacked by armed individuals on motorbikes.
On 5 December 2021, terrorists killed 12 soldiers in an attack on a G5 Sahel Joint Force post in Tera, Tillaberi
On 2 November 2021, terrorists killed 69 members of a local self-defence group in Banibangou, Tillaberi
On 25 August 2021, terrorists killed 16 soliders in Baroua, Diffa
On 16 August 2021, terrorists killed 37 people in an attack in Banibangou
On 21 March 2021 over 137 people were killed in attacks in the Tahoua region
On 16 March 2021 over 58 people were killed in attacks in Banibangou in the Tillabéri region
On 2 January 2021 over 100 people were killed in attacks on two vilages (Tchoma Bangou and Zaroumadareye) in the Tillabéri region
On 12 December 2020, terrorists killed 35 people in the village of Toumour in the region of Diffa, close to the border with Nigeria.
On 9 August 2020, gunmen killed 8 people, including 6 French nationals, at a giraffe reserve in Kouré
on 9 January 2020, terrorists killed 89 Nigerien soldiers at their base in Chinegodrar, Tillabéri
There is also a risk of terrorist attacks in the Parc du W, which is tri-national and shares an open border with Benin and Burkina Faso. Terrorist activity is increasing in south-eastern Burkina Faso, including confirmed terrorist attacks in the Parc. The Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) therefore advise against all travel to the Parc plus the contiguous Dosso and Tamou hunting zones.
In early 2017 the government of Niger joined Chad, Burkina Faso, Mali and Mauritania (G5 Sahel countries) in announcing an agreement to set up a joint counter-terrorism force to tackle the jihadist threat, named the G5 Sahel Joint Force. The Joint Force has also been targeted by extremists.
There’s a heightened threat of terrorist attack globally against UK interests and British nationals from groups or individuals motivated by the conflict in Iraq and Syria.
Read more about the threat from terrorism in the Sahel region.
Kidnap
There’s a very high threat of kidnapping by AQ-affiliated and other regional Islamist groups. These include Jamaat Nusrat al-Islam wal Muslimeen (JNIM) and Islamic State Greater Sahara (ISGS), who operate throughout Mali, Niger and Burkina Faso; and Islamic State West Africa (ISWA) and Boko Haram who operate in the Lake Chad Basin. Criminal groups also carry out kidnaps.
Westerners have been kidnapped in Niger and the wider Sahel region, including in Niamey and the north and west of Niger. In October 2020 an American was kidnapped (and rescued shortly after) in Massalata near the border with Nigeria. In September 2018, a Catholic priest was kidnapped in Makolondi, 125 km southwest of Niamey. An aid worker was kidnapped in the Tillabéri region of Niger in April 2018.
If you’re working or travelling in Niger, you should be aware of the risk of terrorist kidnapping. You should maintain a high level of vigilance at all times, including when travelling. You should be particularly vigilant when walking (in Niamey, you should not cross the bridges over the River Niger on foot at any time), in crowded public places, including camps for displaced people, religious gatherings and insecure spaces like places of worship, markets, shopping malls, hotels, bars, night clubs, restaurants, nature reserves and national parks, and transport hubs. You should make sure you have carefully considered the threat and have reasonable, proportionate mitigation measures in place.
British nationals are viewed as legitimate targets, including those engaged in tourism, humanitarian aid work, journalism or business sectors. If you’re kidnapped, the reason for your presence is unlikely to serve as a protection or secure your safe release.
The long-standing policy of the British government is not to make substantive concessions to hostage takers. The British government considers that paying ransoms and releasing prisoners builds the capability of terrorist groups and finances their activities. This can, in turn, increase the risk of further hostage-taking. The Terrorism Act (2000) makes payments to terrorists illegal.
The terrorist threat in the Sahel and Lake Chad Basin
There are a number of terrorist groups active in the region. These include JNIM, Islamic State West Africa (ISWA), Islamic State Greater Sahara (ISGS), Al Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb (AQIM), Al Murabitoun, Ansar Dine, Katiba Macina and Boko Haram. These groups are capable of carrying out attacks and kidnaps over long distances. Kidnapping for ransom is the primary source of finance for JNIM. Criminal gangs also carry out kidnapping for terrorist groups in return for financial rewards.
There’s a heightened threat of terrorist attack globally against UK interests and British nationals from groups or individuals motivated by the conflict in Iraq and Syria.
