!
Warning
FCDO advises against all travel to parts of Niger.

Your travel insurance could be invalidated if you travel against advice from the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO).
Areas where FCDO advises against travel
FCDO advises against all travel to Niger, except the capital city of Niamey, for security reasons.
Niamey
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to Niamey. We recommend that British Nationals who decide to travel remain within the city limits of Niamey.
Heightened security measures have been put in place in Niamey, including random stop and searches by local authorities.  This is in response to the JNIM attack in Mali’s capital city, Bamako, on 17 September.
Security situation in Niger
We are aware of enhanced security checks being conducted by Nigerien authorities on foreign nationals arriving by air. In some instances, passports have been withheld for several days.
The political situation remains unstable following the military coup on 26 July 2023. Further instability is possible.
If you choose to travel to Niger, you should remain vigilant and monitor travel advice and local media.
British Nationals should be particularly vigilant when walking in crowded public places, including camps for displaced people, religious gatherings and insecure spaces like places of worship, markets, shopping malls, hotels, bars, night clubs, restaurants, nature reserves and national parks, and transport hubs. 
British nationals should not cross the bridges over the River Niger on foot at any time.
Travel within or out of Niger is at your own risk. The FCDO cannot offer advice on the safety of travelling to any departure point within Niger. 
Nigerien airspace has reopened, however there could be disruptions to commercial flights from Niamey’s Diori International Airport at short notice.
Find out more about why FCDO advises against travel.  
Limited consular support
The British Embassy in Niamey does not offer consular assistance. Consular support is provided from the British Embassy in Lagos, Nigeria. They cannot provide in-person assistance.
If there is serious violence, unrest or a deterioration in the security situation, it could be difficult to leave safely.
Do not rely on the British government to evacuate you as they may not be able to do so. Have your own plans on how you would leave the country, make sure you keep all travel documentation up to date and monitor the local situation.
Help and support  
If you are a British national in Niger and need assistance, contact FCDO’s 24-7 services in Lagos by telephone on +234 (1) 277 0782 and select option 2 for consular services for British nationals.
If you are in the UK and worried about a British person in Niger, you can call FCDO in London 24-7 on 020 7008 5000.
Travel insurance
If you choose to travel, research your destinations and get appropriate travel insurance. Insurance should cover your itinerary, planned activities and expenses in an emergency.
About FCDO travel advice
FCDO provides advice about risks of travel to help British nationals make informed decisions. Find out more about FCDO travel advice.
Follow and contact FCDO travel on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram. You can also sign up to get email notifications when this advice is updated.
