Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Senegal on the TravelHealthPro website.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
Air, land and sea borders are open, apart from the land border with Guinea.
If you are travelling between the UK and Senegal and transiting via a third country, check our travel advice for that country.
If you’re transiting another country between Senegal and the UK, you should check travel advice of the countries on your route for the latest transit requirements.
You should contact your airline and your travel company for the latest information.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Senegal.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements. The Senegalese Ministry of Health has issued a list of testing facilities (only available in French).
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Senegal
There is currently no restriction on travel between regions, and authorisation is not needed to travel between regions. Internal flights have also restarted. All interregional bus services have resumed. No restrictions are expected in the short term.
Masks must be worn at all times in public areas and when travelling, including in a private car if there are two or more people in the car.
Accommodation
Hotels are open.
Public places and services
Masks must be worn in all public areas throughout Senegal, including in supermarkets, on public transport (which is still operating with reduced capacity), in taxis, and when on public streets.
Healthcare in Senegal
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
The government of Senegal is encouraging those with any information or concerns about Coronavirus to call +221 800 00 50 50.
If you are leaving Senegal, you can pay for a COVID-19 test, at a cost of 25,000 CFA at locations in Dakar. The Senegalese Ministry of Health has issued a list of COVID-19 testing facilities (only available in French).
All over Senegal, you can find pharmacies in the big cities. Pharmacies accept UK prescriptions. Pharmacies are the only places where you can buy medicines. Please note that pharmacies in Senegal do not have accreditation with UK insurance companies so make sure you speak to your insurance company beforehand if you need a refund.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Senegal.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Senegal
We will update this page when the Government of Senegal announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Senegal national vaccination programme started in February 2021 and is using the AstraZeneca, Janssen (Johnson & Johnson) and Sinopharm vaccines. The Government of Senegal has stated that British nationals resident in Senegal are eligible for vaccination if they choose to join the programme. Further information on the vaccination programme is available on the Government of Senegal Ministry of Health website.
The Ministry of Health can issue individuals who have had two doses of the COVID-19 vaccine under Senegal’s COVID vaccination programme with an electronic certificate of vaccination: Health Pass “Pass Sanitaire”. The pass comes with a QR Code.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in Senegal, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Help and support
The government of Senegal is encouraging those with any information or concerns about coronavirus to call +221 800 00 50 50.
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
