This page has information on travelling to Senegal.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport from the UK, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Senegal set and enforce entry rules. If you’re unsure how Senegal entry requirements apply to you, contact its UK embassy, high commission or consulate.
All travellers
British nationals are not subject to entry restrictions when entering Senegal. You should still check with your airline what documentation you will need to carry with you before travelling.
You will be asked to fill a ‘Public Health Passenger Locator’ and a Public Health form at check-in or on board the flight.
Airlines request passengers fill in a locator form at check-in.
If you’re fully vaccinated
If you’re fully vaccinated, you can enter Senegal without needing to test or quarantine.
At least 14 days must have passed since your second dose of the vaccine and the vaccine must be approved by the health authorities of the country of vaccination.
Proof of vaccination status
You must present proof that you have been fully vaccinated to enter Senegal. Only vaccines approved by the World Health Organization are accepted.
Senegal will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 recovery and vaccination record and proof of COVID-19 vaccination issued in the Crown Dependencies. Your final vaccine dose must have been administered at least 14 days prior to travel. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
If you’re not fully vaccinated
If you’re not fully vaccinated, you’ll need to show proof of a negative PCR test, taken no more than 72 hours before entry to Senegal. See information on getting a test before entry.
If you’ve had COVID-19 in the past year
Entry requirements for Senegal are the same for all travellers, regardless of whether you have tested positive for COVID-19 in the past year.
Children and young people
Children aged 2 and under do not need to show proof of vaccination to enter Senegal. Children aged 3 and over should follow the rules for adults to enter Senegal.
If you’re transiting through Senegal
Transiting is when you pass through one country on the way to your final destination. Check with your airline before departing.
Exemptions
There are no exemptions to Senegal’s entry requirements.
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
Check with your travel provider to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Passport validity
If you are visiting Senegal, your passport should be valid for three months from the date you arrive.
Visas
You don’t need a visa to travel to Senegal. If you intend to stay in Senegal for longer than 3 months, you’ll need to register with the local authorities in order to obtain a ‘Carte d’étranger’. You should do this after your arrival in Senegal.
Carte d’étranger
You can get a “carte d’étranger” from the local authorities if you’ll be staying in Senegal for longer than 3 months. If your visa has expired because of the coronavirus crisis, you should report to the Police des Étrangers et des Titres de Voyage in order to renew your visa.
Evidence of return or onward travel
You may be refused entry if you don’t have evidence of return or onward travel.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents are accepted for entry into, transit through and exit from Senegal.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
