At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. You should check whether you need a yellow fever vaccine certificate. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Coronavirus
Cases of coronavirus (COVID-19) have been confirmed in Senegal. The Senegalese authorities have introduced a number of measures to limit the spread of the virus, including a ban on all commercial air transport starting from 2359 GMT on 20 March. Please check with your airline before travelling.The British Embassy Dakar is issuing regular updates on Twitter and Facebook with the latest available information on flight departure options for British nationals wishing to leave Senegal.
As of 14 March, all public gatherings have been cancelled for 30 days; schools and universities are closed for three weeks; cruise ships won’t be allowed to enter Senegalese waters for 30 days. The government of Senegal is encouraging those with any information or concerns about coronavirus to call this number: +221 800 00 50 50.
You should comply with any additional screening measures put in place by the authorities. Keep up to date with information from your tour operator, transport or accommodation provider on the impact on any existing travel plans.
If you need further information about entry requirements, contact the local immigration authorities or the nearest Senegalese embassy. You should also check with your airline or travel company for the latest information.
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
You can find more information about cases in Senegal on the TravelHealthPro country page.
Medical treatment
Health facilities in Dakar are reasonable but are limited in the rest of Senegal. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation.
Heath risks
Malaria, Dengue fever and other tropical diseases are common in Senegal, especially during the rainy season (June-September). You should take steps to avoid being bitten by mosquitoes. There are occasional outbreaks of cholera.
UK health authorities have classified Senegal as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For information and advice about the risks associated with Zika virus, visit the National Travel Health Network and Centre website
The UNAIDS 2018 Report on the Global AIDS Epidemic estimates the prevalence percentage of HIV in Senegal as at around 0.4% of adults aged between 15 and 49 years, compared to the prevalence percentage in adults in the UK of around 0.25%. You should exercise normal precautions to avoid exposure to HIV/AIDS.
