Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

There are currently extremely limited commercial options available to return to the UK from Senegal. The Government of Senegal has closed land borders and airspace has been closed to commercial airlines except for flights with ‘special authorisation’. We know this is concerning for British people trying to leave Senegal. The UK government is working closely with airlines, the Senegal authorities and other governments to make sure options are available for you to return to the UK as soon as possible.
What to do
If you cannot leave Senegal at this time, you should:
follow the advice of local authorities, including local measures to help minimise your risk of exposure to coronavirus (COVID-19). The Senegal Coronavirus helpline is +221 800 00 50 50
find accommodation that’s suitable for your needs
keep in regular contact with family and friends at home, so they know you are safe and well
Please note that it is not currently possible to obtain a “carte d’etranger” due to Coronavirus restrictions. If you have been in Senegal for over 3 months Senegalese authorities have told us this should not present a problem if you are trying to leave Senegal, provided that the 3 month period expired after the State of Emergency was put in place (23 March).
The British Embassy in Dakar is asking all British nationals currently in Senegal to make themselves known to the Embassy by emailing UkinSenegal@fco.gov.uk.
See more information and advice about staying where you are if you cannot return to the UK.
Future travel options
The UK government is working closely with airlines, the Senegal authorities and other governments to make sure options are available for you to return to the UK as soon as possible. This travel advice will be updated when departure options become available. British Embassy Dakar is also issuing regular updates on Twitter and Facebook with the latest available information on other flight departure options.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option only available to British nationals and you would need to sign an ‘undertaking to repay’ and repay the loan when you are back in the UK.
Travelling to the airport
If you’re travelling to the airport, you should plan to arrive in time to respect the curfew and for your driver to also be able to return in time.
The British Embassy understands that you should be able to travel to the airport for a flight that has ‘special authorisation’ but you should expect to show your travel documents (passport and plane ticket) to any officials that may stop you during your journey. You should ensure that your driver has photocopies of these documents to justify travel during their return journey.
Arrival in the UK
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British Embassy on +221 33 823 7392 The Embassy cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone. This page will be updated when departure options become available. To get the latest information, sign up for travel advice email alerts.
Further information
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
