

This guide also has safety advice for regions of Senegal.
Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.    
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Senegal
Terrorist attacks in Senegal cannot be ruled out.
Attacks could be indiscriminate, including in places visited by foreigners. Terrorist groups in the Sahel region in West Africa have shown their capability and intent by mounting attacks in Mali, which shares a border with Senegal.
Terrorist kidnap
There is a threat of kidnapping in the wider Sahel region, which incorporates Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Chad and Burkina Faso, so take precautions to reduce the risk of kidnap in remote regions and border areas.
British nationals are seen as legitimate targets, including tourists, humanitarian aid workers, journalists and business travellers. If you are kidnapped, the reason for your presence is unlikely to protect you or secure your safe release. 
The long-standing policy of the British government is not to make substantive concessions to hostage takers. The British government considers that paying ransoms and releasing prisoners builds the capability of terrorist groups and finances their activities. This can, in turn, increase the risk of further hostage-taking. The Terrorism Act (2000) makes payments to terrorists illegal. 
Political situation
There are frequent demonstrations about political issues in Dakar and other cities. These are likely to increase in the build-up to presidential elections in February or March 2024.
Demonstrations can turn violent. Protestors sometimes block major roads, including the road between Blaise Diagne International Airport and the city of Dakar.
Monitor local media and ask local contacts about possible upcoming protests. Ahead of big demonstrations, if you’re in Dakar or another major city, consider stocking up on food, water and fuel. Once they have begun, you should:
continue to monitor local media for information
follow the instructions of local authorities
stay away from areas where demonstrations are taking place and exercise caution
If you are in doubt about where protests are taking place, or the level of safety of an area, stay at home or in your hotel.
Foreign nationals have been prosecuted for attending protests that have not been approved by the government.
Crime
Street crime
Pickpocketing and bag-snatching, especially from scooters or motorbikes, are common in Dakar.
This type of crime is more common in the run-up to religious festivals. It can also increase early in the month after salaries are paid. To reduce your personal risk:
avoid walking alone in the evening and after dark, especially if you are a woman
avoid wearing conspicuous jewellery and keep any handbags or satchels on the side of your body that is furthest from the street
step inside a shop or restaurant if you need to use your mobile
Bogus taxis at the airport
There is a risk of bogus taxi drivers pretending to know you and then overcharging you for the journey from the airport. Pre-arrange transport with your accommodation or an authorised operator. If you’re expecting someone to collect you at the airport, make sure they show you their ID.
Fake currency
Be cautious when changing cash, as there is a risk you will be scammed with fake money. Use ATMs or reputable exchange bureaux.
Laws and cultural differences
Senegal is a predominantly Muslim country. Dress and behave modestly in public, especially during the holy month of Ramadan or if you visit religious areas. In the main tourist areas there is more acceptance of western-style holiday clothing.
Bars and restaurants usually serve alcoholic drinks but drunkenness is considered offensive and penalties for drink-driving are severe.
Kissing as a greeting is acceptable, but kissing romantically in public is not.
Ramadan
Ramadan is a holy month for Muslims. The dates vary by year and country. During this time, do not drink alcohol or wear revealing clothes in public during Friday prayers between 1pm and 3pm.
Get more advice when you arrive from your tour guide, hotel or business contacts.
You should also: 
check opening hours of shops and restaurants
be aware that fasting can cause tiredness, particularly during the late afternoon and early evening when traffic will also be heavier than usual
be patient and show tolerance
Illegal drugs and prison sentences
There are severe penalties for possession, use or trafficking of illegal drugs. People accused regularly spend lengthy periods on remand before being tried. The maximum sentence for trafficking is 20 years.
Prison conditions in Senegal are considerably poorer than in UK prisons. There may be problems such as overcrowding, lack of adequate meals, clean drinking water and electricity, and poor sanitation.
Money
Only use reputable exchange bureaux to change your money. Dakar has ATMs that accept foreign bank cards, but there are few ATMs or bank facilities in the rest of the country. Withdrawal limits can be low, and ATMs regularly run out of money, including in Dakar.
Larger or more upmarket establishments that cater for tourists usually accept foreign credit cards. Mobile payment applications, such as Orange Money and Wave, are also widely used around the country.
LGBT+ travellers
Same-sex sexual activity is illegal. Same-sex relationships are generally not tolerated in Senegal’s conservative society.
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
 Transport risks
Road travel
If you are planning to drive in Senegal, see information on driving abroad.
You can drive in Senegal with a UK driving licence for up to 6 months. A 1968 international driving permit may be helpful in offering a translation for traffic officials. If you’re staying longer or living in Senegal, you must get a Senegalese driving licence.
Road conditions
Most main roads are of good quality, but minor roads can be in very poor repair. During the rainy season from June to September, torrential rains can cause floods and landslides which damage roads.
Driving standards are not the same as in the UK. Drivers can make sudden movements without signalling and speeding is common. Many taxis and public mini-buses (‘cars rapides’) are not roadworthy by UK standards. Driving after dark is more dangerous because of poorly lit roads and vehicles without lights.
Traffic congestion gets worse in the run-up to and during religious festivals.
If you have an accident, you must contact the police on 17 and wait for them to arrive at the scene. Do not move your car until a police officer gives you permission. In remote areas, go to the nearest police station to report the accident.
