Coronavirus guidance is being updated.
Read the Prime Minister’s statement for the latest information.

This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Senegal as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Senegal to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Senegal
For information on entering Senegal, see Entry requirements
A national state of emergency is in place until 2 July. This includes:
a curfew between 11pm and 5am
the compulsory use of face masks in government buildings, private sector workplaces, shops and markets as well as all forms of transport. You are strongly advised to wear a face mask in public even when travelling alone in your own vehicle
a ban on gatherings and demonstrations
banning public or private meeting spaces as well as all public or private gatherings that could lead to civil disturbance
The restriction on travel between regions has been lifted, with effect from 5am on 7 June, and authorisation will no longer needed to travel between regions. Internal flights are now restarting. The curfew hours have changed from 9pm-5am to 11pm-5am.
As of 11 May, religious sites are open. From 5 June, restaurants, hotels and gyms are free to open to visitors, but sanitary measures and social distancing must be respected. Bars and nightclubs remain closed, and collective sports outside are still banned.
See the Ministry of Health website for further information on the Senegalese government response.
Accommodation
Thirteen hotels in Dakar are not open to the public as they are being used as part of the emergency response to COVID-19. These are:
Virage
Arc-En-Ciel
Étoile du Lac
Chez Salon
Pullman-Teranga
Ngor Diarama
Ibis-Novotel
Lagon,
Savana
Ndiambour
Terrou-Bi
Calao
Fleur de Lys
Visas
Stays in Senegal of over 3 months normally require a “carte d’etranger”. It is not currently possible to obtain a “carte d’etranger”.
If you have been in Senegal for over 3 months, Senegalese authorities have advised that this should not present a problem when trying to leave Senegal, provided that the 3 month period expired after the State of Emergency was put in place (23 March).
Health
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Senegal.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Senegal, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
The government of Senegal is encouraging those with any information or concerns about coronavirus to call +221 800 00 50 50.
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
