Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

Coronavirus: stay up to date
Cases of coronavirus (COVID-19) have been confirmed in Senegal. See information on measures introduced in Senegal to limit the spread of the virus. Find out how to return to the UK from Senegal.
See coronavirus travel advice for guidance on international travel.
Sign up for email alerts for Senegal travel advice.
The Senegal authorities have introduced new measures in relation to coronavirus. On 23 March President Macky Sall declared a national state of emergency imposing a curfew from 2000 to 0600, and restrictions to movement between regions of Senegal and to public and private gatherings. . On 3 April the national state of emergency was extended for a further 30 days. There is a ban on all scheduled commercial air transport since 20 March, with the exception of flights with ‘special authorisation’. You should check with your airline before travelling.
The Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) advises British people travelling abroad to return to the UK as soon as possible. British Embassy Dakar is issuing regular updates on Twitter and Facebook with the latest available information on flight departure options for British nationals wishing to leave Senegal. See Coronavirus and Return to the UK
Given the rapidly changing situation in Senegal we are temporarily withdrawing a limited number of UK staff and their dependents from our Embassy. The Embassy will continue to carry out essential work including providing 24/7 consular assistance and support to British people in Senegal. There are reported incidents of hostility towards foreign nationals so remain vigilant. See Safety and security
Strikes, political demonstrations and social protests are a relatively frequent occurrence, particularly in Dakar but also other cities. These are normally peaceful, but can sometimes turn violent. You should exercise caution and avoid areas where demonstrations and large gatherings are likely.
Terrorists are likely to try to carry out attacks in Senegal. Attacks could be indiscriminate, including in places visited by foreigners. See Terrorism
You should be vigilant when travelling in Casamance, the region south of The Gambia. Where possible you should avoid travelling at night, stick to main roads and travel in a convoy when you can. The Casamance region has suffered from decades of low intensity separatist violence, largely directed at Senegalese security forces. While the security situation has improved significantly since 2012, there are occasionally violent incidents, including armed attacks on travellers. Mines remain in this area from years of conflict.
There is a lower level of risk in the main tourist areas of the Casamance. See Local travel
Pickpocketing and street crime are common in parts of Dakar, particularly around Place de l’Indépendance, the central area of the Plateau and the Western Corniche, as well as Goree Island. See Safety and security
Be cautious when changing cash given the risk of false money circulating.
Most visits to Senegal are trouble-free.
UK health authorities have classified Senegal as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For information and advice about the risks associated with Zika virus, visit the NaTHNaC website
The UNAIDS 2018 Report on the Global AIDS Epidemic estimates the prevalence percentage of HIV in Senegal as at around 0.4% of adults aged between 15 and 49 years, compared to the prevalence percentage in adults in the UK of around 0.25%. You should exercise normal precautions to avoid exposure to HIV/AIDS.
Take out comprehensive travel and medical insurance before you travel.
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.
