Terrorist attacks in Senegal can’t be ruled out.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Attacks could be indiscriminate, including in places visited by foreigners. Take particular care in remote areas of Senegal near the border areas with Mauritania and Mali, and to the east of the city of Podor as far as Kidira.
Take extra care when visiting locations, including hotels, frequented by tourists.
Terrorist groups in West Africa have demonstrated their capability and intent by mounting attacks in Côte d’Ivoire, Burkina Faso and Mali since late 2015 and 2016. Targets have included leisure facilities, beach resorts, hotels, cafes and restaurants visited by foreigners. Be especially vigilant in these locations.
Senegal contributes to the UN peacekeeping initiative in Mali (MINUSMA) and is therefore considered a legitimate target by terrorist groups including Jamaat Nusrat al-Islam wal Muslimeen (JNIM) and their associated groups.
JNIM mainly operate in the Sahel. The Sahel region includes Burkina Faso, Mali, Mauritania, Niger and Chad but the threat may extend to other neighbouring countries, including Senegal, and the wider region due to the porous nature of the borders and the desire from these groups to demonstrate capability and influence across the wider region. Read more about the threat from terrorism in the Sahel region.
There is a threat of kidnapping in the wider Sahel region. You should take particular care in remote regions and border areas. The long-standing policy of the British government is not to make substantive concessions to hostage-takers. The British government considers that paying ransoms and releasing prisoners increases the risk of further hostage-taking and finances terrorist activity. The Terrorism Act (2000) also makes payments to terrorists illegal.
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. You should remain vigilant at all times.
