Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Poland on the TravelHealthPro website.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Poland.
Returning to the UK
Travelling from and returning to the UK
Check what you must do to travel abroad and return to England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
If you plan to pass through another country to return to the UK, check the travel advice for the country you’re transiting. If you will pass through a red list country, book your hotel quarantine package before travelling to the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID-19. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
International Travel
Flights between UK and Poland are permitted but this could change at short notice. Some airlines are making commercial decisions based on demand. If you were due to travel to or from Poland and have been informed your flight has been cancelled, contact your travel operator for more information.
Flights are also operating between Poland and a number of countries including members of the European Economic Area (EEA) and Switzerland. If you are travelling to Poland from a third country you should check country specific FCDO travel advice.
UK nationals who are legally resident in Poland will need to show proof of residence when entering Poland.
Travel by road
You can enter and depart Poland by car or coach over some land border crossings, though the situation could change quickly. Countries neighbouring Poland may introduce border restrictions at short notice. Check country specific FCDO travel advice for any country that you plan to transit during your journey.
The Kuzniсa-Bruzgi road border crossing is currently closed, and more border checkpoints may close or implement restrictions at short notice.
Coach services are available between London and Poland (journey times are in excess of 24 hours including Channel crossing).
Public spaces and services
The Polish government has strict sanitary rules and restrictions in place nationwide. Further guidance can be found on the Polish government website. Further national or regional measures may be implemented at short notice.
Facemasks are compulsory in indoor and enclosed spaces, on public transport, in taxis or in an open space where you are unable to maintain a 1.5 metre distance. You do not need to wear a facemask in a private car. Children under 4 are not required to wear facemasks. If there are medical reasons why you cannot wear a facemask, you must carry a doctor’s note with you explaining this. Bandanas, scarves, balaclavas and visors are not permitted alternatives to facemasks. Your mouth and nose must be covered.
When outside, you should keep a 1.5 metre distance from others, unless you are in the same household, a parent with a child under 13 or the carer of a person with a disability or special needs.
Police and sanitary inspectors are entitled to issue you with an on-the-spot fine (approximately PLN500/£100) if you are found not to be wearing a facemask when you should. Further prosecution could result in a fine of up to PLN 30,000 (£6,000) for failing to follow sanitary rules.
From 15 December, public transport will operate with a maximum limit of 75% capacity. Gatherings, celebrations and events are allowed for up to 100 people. Fairs, exhibitions, conferences and trade events are required to have a maximum of one person per 15 square metres.
From 15 December, sports events, religious services and funerals have a maximum limit of 30% capacity. These limits can be increased, but only to those who can provide evidence they are fully vaccinated to venue staff.
Museums, galleries, cultural centres, libraries, theatres, cinemas and operas, swimming pools and aqua parks will have a maximum limit of 30% capacity. These limits can be increased, but only to those who can provide evidence they are fully vaccinated to venue staff.
From 15 December, all nightclubs, discos and venues with dancefloors will be closed except for 31 December/1 January, when they will be able to open exceptionally with a maximum of 100 guests.
National Forests, parks and beaches are open. Outside leisure and sport facilities are open with limits on capacity.
Gyms, fitness clubs, hairdressers, beauty salons and saunas are open with strict hygiene rules and limits on numbers. Gyms, fitness clubs and indoor games facilities have a limit of one person per 15 square metres.
All shops and services are open. Customer numbers are limited in shops. This might mean you have to queue for entry at busy times. In all areas of Poland a facemask must be worn inside shops and hand sanitiser must be used where provided.
Administrative offices may open with limited numbers inside at any one time. You might find some offices are only open by appointment and you are recommended to check websites or contact the office before travelling as appointments may be limited.
Poland will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 recovery and vaccination record. If you are travelling with a printed PDF proof of vaccination status, it must date from 1 November 2021 to ensure that the certificate can be scanned successfully. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
Accommodation
Hotels are currently open with capacity limits. From 15 December, they will operate with 30% capacity. These limits can be increased, but only to those who can provide evidence they are fully vaccinated.
Healthcare in Poland
The Polish National Health Fund 24 hour info line (dial 800 190 590, or dial 989, and then press 6 after calling either number) provides English language advice on what steps to take if you are in Poland and suspect you might have COVID-19, and information on vaccinations. A list of hospitals with COVID-19 facilities can be found on the Polish government website.
For contact details for English speaking doctors, visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Poland.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Poland
Wherever possible British nationals should aim to be vaccinated in the country where they live. We will update this page when the Government of Poland announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Polish national vaccination programme started in December 2020 and is using the AstraZeneca, Janssen (Johnson & Johnson), Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna vaccines. British nationals aged 5 and over resident in Poland are eligible for vaccination. All adults are eligible to have a booster dose. Those aged 5 to 15 may only receive the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine. If you are considering a vaccination for somebody in this age group, you should seek medical advice from their local healthcare provider.
The Polish authorities have issued guidance on how to get a vaccine in Poland. The guidance includes information on how you can register if you live in Poland.
If you are legally resident in Poland because you are studying, working, or are a family member of someone legally resident in Poland or a Polish national, but do not have a PESEL (national identification) number, you are still able to register for vaccination. You should contact your primary health care provider and they should give you an e-referral (e-skierowanie) that will enable you to register for a vaccination appointment. More information (in Polish) here.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in Poland, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
If you receive your COVID-19 vaccination in Poland, you can get an EU Digital COVID Certificate from the national authorities. The Certificate proves that you have been vaccinated against COVID-19, received a negative test result, or recovered from COVID-19. It will help facilitate your travel within the EU and, in some countries, you can use it to demonstrate your COVID-19 status to businesses and other organisations. For further information visit the European Commission’s EU Digital COVID Certificate page.
Quarantine requirements
You must self-isolate if you develop any COVID-19 symptoms or if you are notified that you have come into contact with someone who is infected or potentially infected with COVID-19. You must follow the advice of a medical professional who may instruct you to self-isolate for longer than 10 days.
From 15 December, if you live with someone who has tested positive for COVID-19, you are required to carry out a COVID-19 test and self-isolate for 7 days. If you live with someone who must self-isolate but has not tested positive, you are not required to self-isolate or complete a test (unless you later develop symptoms).
If you suspect you are infected with COVID-19 you must contact the Ministry of Health 24 hour hotline on 800 190 590 and press 6 for English language advice. A list of hospitals equipped to deal with COVID-19 patients can be found on the Polish Government website.
If you are self-isolating you must not walk your dog or go shopping. You must not visit your doctor unless instructed to do so by them and you may leave your place of stay if you are required to travel to a COVID-19 testing centre.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
