This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Poland set and enforce entry rules. For further information contact their embassy, high commission or consulate. You may also check with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and travel documents meet their requirements.
If you are travelling to Poland for work, read the guidance on visas and permits as the rules have changed since 1 January 2021.
Entry rules in response to coronavirus (COVID-19)
UK nationals, their spouses and children are included in the list of those who allowed to enter Poland under the Polish government’s entry restrictions related to COVID-19, found on the Polish Border Guards website (in English).
If you fly to Poland from abroad you must fill in a passenger locator form.
Demonstrating your COVID-19 status
Individuals 5 years and older, both vaccinated and unvaccinated, travelling from non-Schengen countries (including the UK) must present evidence on arrival of a negative pre-departure test (PCR or antigen/lateral flow) taken within 24 hours before crossing the border. The test result must be in English or Polish. Please check how to arrange any COVID-19 test you will need here. You may be able to do the test at some airports on arrival no later than 3 hours after your arrival, please check the airport website before you travel. Certain individuals may be exempt from this requirement, please check the Polish government’s website for the latest guidance.
Poland will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 recovery and vaccination record. Both digital and paper versions of the certificate are acceptable. If you are travelling with a printed PDF proof of vaccination status, it must date from 1 November 2021 to ensure that the certificate can be scanned successfully. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
Quarantine requirements
If you are fully vaccinated with a vaccination approved for use in the EU and 14 days have passed since your final dose, or you present a certificate of recovery no older than 180 days from the first day of a recognised positive test result, you are exempt from quarantine on arrival in Poland. You must present evidence of your COVID-19 vaccination or recovery from infection at the border. ‘Fully vaccinated’ is understood as the administration of two doses of AstraZeneca, Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna or one dose of Janssen (Johnson & Johnson) vaccine.
Otherwise, if you enter Poland directly from the United Kingdom (or any other non-EU or non-Schengen country), you must follow Polish government guidance and undergo mandatory quarantine, unless you are transiting through Poland within 24 hours of arrival and have a ticket for your onward travel. Upon arrival, you will be registered by Border Guards in the quarantine database if you do not meet one of the exemptions listed on the Polish government’s website.
You can leave quarantine if you receive a negative antigen or PCR COVID-19 test result taken after 8 days since your arrival, or after 14 days without taking a test.
Any arrivals who have recently been in Botswana, Eswatini, Lesotho, Mozambique, Namibia, South Africa or Zimbabwe, must undergo 14 days of mandatory quarantine. Arrivals from these countries cannot reduce the length of quarantine with a negative test after 8 days.
Whenever you take a COVID-19 test to be released from quarantine, please make sure the laboratory uses your passport number as a reference number for transmitting the negative test result to the quarantine database. After receiving a negative test from the laboratory, you should call the Chief Sanitary Inspectorate info line (+48) 22 25 00 115 to check that you have been removed from the quarantine list.
If you are travelling to Poland from another EU or Schengen country you must hold a negative COVID-19 test result issued in the 48 hours prior to arrival into Poland, unless you meet one of the exemptions listed on the Polish government’s website. Otherwise, you are obliged to quarantine.
Quarantine requirements for children
Children under 12 years, travelling with fully vaccinated adults, are exempt from the mandatory quarantine upon arrival from the UK and other non-Schengen countries. If children under 12 years are travelling with adults who are not fully vaccinated, they are also required to quarantine.
Children 12 years and older are subject to the same rules as adults, set out above. This includes if they are travelling with fully vaccinated parents/guardians. If a child of 12 years or older cannot demonstrate that they are fully vaccinated or have recovered from COVID-19 within 180 days from the first day of a recognised positive test result, they will have to complete mandatory quarantine on arrival in Poland.
The UK does not issue COVID-19 certificates of recovery for children under the age of 16. In this case, you must present alternative evidence to demonstrate recovery from COVID-19.
Further exemptions from quarantine
You do not need to self-isolate if you are:
aircraft crew, crew of a ship or crew of another transport type;
a public transport driver (of a vehicle able to carry 9 people or more) or a lorry driver;
a diplomat or family member of;
a student studying in Poland (including a parent/guardian who crosses the border with them);
a student or researcher carrying out academic activities;
legally residing in EU/EEA but transiting Poland;
participating as a competitor or staff in an international sports competition;
travelling for professional, official or employment reasons;
the holder of an air ticket confirming you will leave Poland in less than 24 hours from the time you arrive in Poland.
Entry to Poland
Entry checks remain in place on land borders with Russia, Ukraine and Belarus. You may also face checks arriving through checkpoints from Germany, Lithuania, Slovakia or Czech Republic with the possibility for queuing traffic at peak times. Some countries also have checks in place on exiting Poland and if you travel to another country from Poland you may need to self-isolate in that country. Check country specific FCDO travel advice for any country that you plan to visit for details.
British nationals do not need a visa to enter Poland or any other EU/EFTA country. Poland now allows direct flights into its territory from a wide number of countries. The list of countries from which flights are not permitted could change at short notice and is updated on the Polish Government website (in Polish).
Regular entry requirements
Visas 
The rules for travelling or working in European countries changed on 1 January 2021:
you can travel to countries in the Schengen area for up to 90 days in any 180-day period without a visa. This applies if you travel as a tourist, to visit family or friends, to attend business meetings, cultural or sports events, or for short-term studies or training
if you are travelling to Poland and other Schengen countries without a visa, make sure your whole visit is within the 90-day limit. Visits to Schengen countries within the previous 180 days before you travel count towards your 90 days
to stay longer, to work or study, for business travel or for other reasons, you will need to meet the Polish government’s entry requirements. Check with the Polish Embassy what type of visa and/or work permit you may need
if you stay in Poland with a residence permit or long-stay visa, this does not count towards your 90-day visa-free limit
Any time you spent in Poland or other Schengen countries before 1 January 2021 does not count towards your 90-day visa-free limit.
At Polish border control, you may need to queue in separate lanes from EU, EEA and Swiss citizens.
Check your passport is stamped if you enter or exit the Schengen area through Poland as a visitor. Border guards will use passport stamps to check you’re complying with the 90-day visa-free limit for short stays in the Schengen area. If relevant entry or exit stamps are not in your passport, border guards will presume that you have overstayed your visa-free limit.
You can show evidence of when and where you entered or exited the Schengen area, and ask the border guards to add this date and location in your passport. Examples of acceptable evidence include boarding passes and tickets.
You may also need to:
show a return or onward ticket
show you have enough money for your stay
If you are resident in Poland your passport should not be stamped. You should proactively show your proof of residence as well as your valid passport at Polish border control. For further information, see our Living in Poland guide.
Passport validity
If you are planning to travel to an EU country (except Ireland), or Switzerland, Norway, Iceland, Liechtenstein, Andorra, Monaco, San Marino or Vatican City, you must meet the Schengen area rules.
Your passport must meet 2 requirements. It must be:
less than 10 years old on the day you enter (check the ‘date of issue’)
valid for at least 3 months after the day you plan to leave (check the ‘expiry date’)
We are asking the European Commission to clarify the 10-year rule. Their guidance for Schengen border guards may not be updated until the spring of 2022. Until then, for some Schengen countries your passport may need to be less than 10 years old during your whole visit, and the 3 months at the end of your visit may need to be within 10 years of your passport’s issue date.
Check both the issue date and the expiry date in your passport. If you renewed your passport early, extra months may have been added to its expiry date. This could affect the requirement for your passport to be less than 10 years old.
Contact your travel provider or embassy of the country you are visiting if you think that your passport does not meet both these requirements. Renew your passport if you need to.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
You can use a UK Emergency Travel Document to enter, airside transit and exit from Poland.
UK nationals resident in Poland
There are separate requirements for those who are resident in Poland. If you are resident in Poland, you should carry proof of residence as well as your valid passport when you travel. For further information on these requirements, see the Polish Border Guards guidance (in Polish) and our Living in Poland guide.
Dual nationals 
If you are a Polish passport holder you will be treated as a Polish national while in Poland, even if you hold a passport from another country. If you are a dual Polish-British national you must enter and exit Poland with a Polish passport or Polish national identity card. Check with the Polish Embassy in London if in doubt.
