At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Coronavirus
The Polish authorities have introduced a number of measures to limit the spread of the virus.
The Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advises against all but essential travel to Poland, due to travel restrictions implemented by the Polish Government related to the coronavirus (COVID-19).
From midnight on Saturday 14 March it will not be possible for most British nationals to enter Poland owing to coronavirus (COVID-19) restrictions imposed by the Polish Government. The Polish Prime Minister declared on 13 March that all borders will be shut and border control introduced from midnight local time on Saturday 14 March for 10 days. He also announced that International rail and air transport will be suspended from the same time on Saturday 14 March for 14 days. These measures may be extended. It will not be possible for non-Polish nationals to enter Poland unless they are:
Spouses and children or individuals under the permanent care of Polish nationals; or
Holders of a Pole’s Card; or
Individuals with the right to permanent or temporary stay in Poland or people with a work permit; or
foreign nationals driving a means of transport used for transporting goods.
All those arriving from abroad will be required to self-isolate for 14 days. They are required to provide the local authorities with information about their place of stay or address and a contact telephone number. British travellers currently in Poland are able to exit Poland by coach, car or bus at designated land border crossings, though the situation could change at short notice. Several countries neighbouring Poland have imposed restrictions on people crossing borders, including from Poland. Please check FCO travel advice for neighbouring countries before travelling.
In addition, LOT Polish airlines have suspended flights to a number of airports, including London City Airport, until mid-April. From 07:00 local time on Friday 13 March, international trains stopped crossing the Polish/Slovak border. From 00:01 on Friday 13 March, international trains stopped crossing the Polish/Czech border. This is due to the Czech and Slovak governments introducing a 30 day state of emergency. In both cases, trains will run shortened routes and be subject to cancellations.
You should comply with any additional screening measures put in place by the authorities. Keep up to date with information from your tour operator, transport or accommodation provider on the impact on any existing travel plans. If you need further information about entry requirements, contact the local immigration authorities or the nearest Polish embassy or consulate. You should also check with your airline or travel company for the latest information.
The Polish government have announced the closure for two weeks of all secondary schools and universities from 12 March and of all other schools from 16 March. As of 12 March, cinemas, operas, theatres, museums and other cultural venues will be closed indefinitely. As of 14 March, the functioning of shopping malls is limited but grocery shops, pharmacies and banks remain open. Restaurants, pubs, clubs, casinos are closed but home delivery services are permitted. Gatherings of over 50 people are prohibited.
The Polish National Health Fund 24 hour info line (800 190 590 and press 6) provides English language advice on what steps to take if you are in Poland and suspect you might have coronavirus.
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
You can find more information about cases in Poland on the TravelHealthPro website.
Healthcare
The rules on access to healthcare will stay the same until 31 December 2020.
You should get a free European Health Insurance Card (EHIC) before leaving the UK. After 31 December 2020, your UK-issued EHIC might not be valid.
The EHIC entitles you to state provided medical treatment that may become necessary during your trip. Any treatment provided is on the same terms as Polish nationals. If you don’t have your EHIC with you or you’ve lost it, you can call the Department of Health Overseas Healthcare Team (+44 191 218 1999) to get a Provisional Replacement Certificate.
It is important to take out comprehensive travel insurance that includes cover for emergency medical treatment and associated costs. The existing EHIC arrangements are not an alternative to travel insurance, as some health-related costs, including for medical repatriation, ongoing medical treatment and non-urgent treatment, are not covered. Read more about what your travel insurance should cover.
If you’re living in Poland, you can also find more information on healthcare for residents in our Living In Poland guide.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 112 and ask for an ambulance. If you are referred to a medical facility for treatment you should contact your insurance/medical assistance company immediately.
In general, medical facilities in Poland are comparable to those in the UK. Private medical facilities are comparatively inexpensive and of a good standard. Polish doctors and nurses are well qualified but English is not always widely spoken and you may face some communication difficulties.
Diseases
Tick-borne encephalitis is common, especially in forested areas during the summer.
