Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

There are limited commercial options to return to the UK from Poland.
If you live in the UK and are currently visiting Poland you’re strongly advised to return now by commercial means. Don’t risk getting stranded.
UK special charter flights will only operate for priority countries where commercial options are not possible. You should not assume that these flights will become available in Poland because commercial routes are operating. Please do not contact the contracted travel management company if no flight is advertised here.
Flights
The suspension of international air transport has been extended until 9 May and may be further extended.
Special LOT repatriation flights to and from the UK have now stopped. Check with your airline for the latest schedule and information on flight availability, and for refund/rebooking processes for flights up to 9 May.
If you’re trying to get back to the UK and need financial help, see the FCO’s guide on financial assistance.
Travel via Germany
FlixBus and Sinbad are coach operators providing services from Poland to Germany. Limited flights to the UK are available from German cities, including Berlin and Frankfurt. Check FCO travel advice for Germany for further updates.
Road
You can depart Poland by car or limited coach services over some land border crossings, though the situation could change quickly. Countries neighbouring Poland have also introduced border restrictions (Czech Republic, Germany, Lithuania, Russia, Slovakia and Ukraine). Check country specific FCO travel advice for any country that you plan to transit on the way back to the UK for details.
If you plan to travel to the UK via Germany you should plan in advance. You will need to show German officials proof of onward travel (for example an onward flight, ferry or train ticket). Entry is ultimately a decision for Border Guards.
You cannot enter, and therefore transit, Poland by road from neighbouring countries unless you meet very limited criteria and quarantine rules. You can enter if you are a:
Spouse, child or individual under the permanent care of a Polish national; or
Holder of a Pole’s Card; or
Holder of the right to permanent or temporary stay in Poland or a work permit holder; or
Foreign national driving a means of transport used for transporting goods; or
Diplomat, consular staff member, representative of an international organisation or a member of their family transiting Poland, leaving a maximum of 24 hours after entry.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Your journey home
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British Embassy on +48 22 311 0000.
The Embassy cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone.
Further information
Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British Embassy on Twitter and Facebook.
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
