Travel from Ukraine
The FCDO currently advises against travel to Ukraine.
The Russian invasion of Ukraine is ongoing with attacks against a number of major cities. Russian military strikes have taken place in Ukraine within 20km of the Polish border. There is a real risk to life. You should not attempt to cross into Ukraine from Poland.
On 15 November, an explosion occurred in Przewodów near the Ukrainian border killing two Polish nationals. You should remain vigilant and abide by the instructions of the authorities at all times when near the Ukrainian/Polish border.
If you have arrived in Poland from Ukraine and are in need of assistance, you should call +48 22 311 0000 or +44 1908 516666 and select the option for “consular services for British nationals.” You can also send an enquiry via the web contact form.
The main border crossing points to enter Poland from Ukraine can be found on the Ukrainian government website. You should prepare for potential long delays before crossing.
There is limited availability of accommodation in Poland in the vicinity of the border. You may check the nearest reception point provided by the Polish local authorities for all foreigners affected by the Ukraine crisis.
If you’re travelling to Poland from Ukraine without travel documents, you may be allowed through the border and given 15 days to leave Poland. Each case will be considered individually by the Border Guard Commander-in-Chief.
Poland/Belarus border
There is limited access along parts of the Poland/Belarus border. The Kuzniсa-Bruzgi road border crossing is currently closed, and more border checkpoints may close or implement restrictions at short notice.
Whilst a law limiting access to wider areas close to the Belarusian border was lifted in July 2022, access to within 200 metres of the border is still limited . You should abide by this limitation at all times and follow the instructions of Polish authorities if you are in this area.
Crime
Most visitors to Poland don’t experience any difficulties. Serious crime against foreigners is rare, but crimes do occur and in some cases attacks have been racially motivated. You should be alert to the possibility of street crime and petty theft, and that foreigners may appear to be easy targets. Keep valuables and cash out of sight, especially in crowded areas and tourist spots where pickpockets and bag snatchers operate.
There is a higher risk of robbery at main rail stations and on all train services, especially overnight sleeper trains. You are most at risk while boarding and leaving trains.
Unregulated taxi drivers operate in Poland. They often overcharge and there have been reports of incidents of attacks against passengers, including sexual assaults, in unregulated taxis and cars booked using ride share apps. The Polish police force has published advice on using unregulated taxis and cars booked using ride share apps (in Polish).
Official taxis, which have the name and telephone number of the taxi company on the side of the door and on the top of the taxi. They will also show a rate card on the window of the vehicle. Taxis with a crest but no company name are not official taxis. Please take sensible precautions, including at night and if you are alone.
There have been a small number of reports of drinks being spiked and visitors having their valuables stolen. Don’t leave drinks or food unattended in bars or clubs and beware of accepting drinks from strangers.
Check your bill carefully when buying drinks in bars and nightclubs. There have been some reports of overcharging and of large amounts of money being charged to debit or credit cards.
Rape and sexual assault
In the unlikely event that you become a victim of rape or sexual assault in Poland, see information on GOV.UK for further advice.
Demonstrations
Public demonstrations in Poland are common. Marches and gatherings are mostly peaceful and well-policed, but you should take extra care as in any crowded place. Peaceful demonstrations can attract violence. You should monitor local media and follow the instructions of local authorities.
Local travel
Walkers and cyclists must wear a reflective item during darkness when outside a built-up area. Anyone hit by a car or a bike when not wearing a reflective item may be held responsible for the accident. You may get a 100PLN (around £20) police fine for not wearing reflective items.
Public transport
You must validate a public transport ticket at the start of a journey. You will be fined on the spot if you’re travelling with an invalid ticket, usually 266PLN (around £54). You can buy tickets at most newspaper stands and kiosks with a sign reading ‘Bilety’ or ticket machines found in cities.
If you think you may qualify for a cheaper fare (e.g. you are a student or an older person) always double-check the rules as some cheaper fares may only be available to Polish nationals. You’ll be fined if you travel with a cheaper fare ticket that you’re not entitled to.
Road travel
In 2019 there were 2,904 road deaths in Poland (source: Department for Transport). This equates to 7.6 road deaths per 100,000 of population and compares to the UK average of 2.6 road deaths per 100,000 of population in 2019.
If you are planning to drive in Poland, see information on Driving Abroad.
Poland is a major east-west transit route for heavy vehicles. The road network is being constantly upgraded, and roadworks are frequent, particularly in summer. Even some main roads between major towns and cities can be narrow and poorly surfaced, making driving after dark particularly challenging.
Most car rental companies will not allow you to take your hire car across the Poland/Ukraine border.
Licences and documents
You can drive in Poland with your UK photocard driving licence without the need for an international driving permit.
If you’re living in Poland, check the Living in Guide for information on the rules for residents.
When driving, you should always have your:
driving licence
ID
car registration papers
car ownership papers
insurance papers
You will need to show these documents if you are stopped by the police or if you cross non-Schengen borders. This includes rental vehicles. If you do not have these papers the police may take your vehicle and charge you for this. If you drive a vehicle in Poland it must meet local technical requirements.
Driving a British car abroad
You may need a UK sticker to drive your car outside the UK. From 28 September 2021 UK stickers have replaced GB stickers. Check the GOV.UK Displaying number plates website for more information on what to do if you are driving outside the UK.
Driving regulations
If you break Polish driving laws you should be prepared to pay an on the spot fine of between 50 and 2500 PLN (around £10-500) in cash in Polish currency to the police. If you live in Poland and have a permanent address you may be given a fine that can be paid later.
If you drive or cycle under the influence of alcohol or drugs, you can be prosecuted. The drink-drive limit in Poland is 20 milligrams of alcohol per 100 millilitres of blood – which is lower than the UK. If you are caught driving a car over the alcohol limit or after taking drugs you can be punished by up to 2 years in prison.
If you turn right on a traffic light displaying a green arrow look out for people or bicycles on crossings. They have priority before you.
You must have your headlights on, at least dipped beam, at all times, including in the daytime .
You must wear a seatbelt in both the front and back seats, even in taxis.
You must not use a mobile phone while driving (unless ‘hands free’).
See the European Commission, AA and RAC guides to driving abroad and in Poland.
Tolls
You may need to pay a road toll on some parts of motorways, expressways and national roads. More information is available on the toll operator website.
Dual nationals
If you are a dual Polish-British national and are arrested or detained in Poland, you will be treated as a Polish national by the Polish authorities. You will not be recognised as a British national.
