This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Poland as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Poland to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Poland
For information on entering Poland, see Entry requirements.
Masks are no longer compulsory in public spaces if you are able to maintain 2m distance from others. You still have to cover your mouth and nose with a mask or scarf in shops, on public transport, in cinemas, theatres and concert halls, in post offices and other government offices and in Churches. You do not need to wear a mask at work, as long as you are able to maintain appropriate distance from colleagues, or when you are sitting at a table in a restaurant, café or bar.
When outside, you should keep a 2 metre distance from others, unless you are a parent with a child under 13 or the carer of a disabled person. From 30 May there are no longer restrictions on the number of people attending religious services and funerals. The government has announced that from 6 June you are allowed to organise wedding receptions and other family celebrations for up to 150 people.
You must cover your nose and mouth when outside (with a mask or scarf). Children under 4 are not required to wear a mask and you do not need to wear a mask in a car if you are travelling with people you live with. From 30 May masks will no longer be compulsory if you are able to maintain 2m distance from others. You will still have to wear a mask in shops, on public transport, in cinemas, theatres and concert halls, in post offices and other government offices and in Churches. You do not need to wear a mask at work, as long as you are able to maintain appropriate distance from colleagues, or when you are sitting at a table in a restaurant, café or bar.
Public transport use is limited to reduced capacity seating to maintain appropriate distance between passengers. You can still use taxis.
There are fines between £1000 to £6000 (5000 to 30000 PLN) if you are found breaking these rules.
Hotels and short term accommodation establishments are open subject to strict sanitary rules and some facilities may be closed (for example swimming pools). The government has announced that hotels will be able to reopen cafes, bars and restaurants on 30 May and swimming pools, gyms and saunas on 6 June, with strict hygiene measures in place.
Some sporting facilities are open with limits on visitor numbers. If you plan to visit a cultural or sports venue we recommend first consulting their website for information about opening. Many have information in English as well as Polish. National Forests, parks and beaches are open.
There are no limits on customer numbers in shops, but you still have to cover your nose and mouth and wear single-use gloves. Restaurants and pubs are permitted to open provided they put in place distancing and specific hygiene measures. Hairdressers may also open by appointment only and where possible face masks should be worn during the visit. Some museums, libraries and cultural venues are already open. The government has announced that from 6 June cinemas, theatres and concert halls will be open at 50% capacity. Swimming pools, gyms, indoor play centres and theme parks, saunas, tanning salons, massage salons and tattoo parlours are also allowed to open from 6 June, with strict hygiene rules in place.
Some nurseries and kindergartens are open subject to strict sanitary procedures. A staged relaxation of the rules for students began on 18 May, including allowing classes and childcare for Grades 1-3 of primary schools (6 to 9 year olds). From 25 May Higher Education Institutions will be allowed to open for some classes. If you are a student or parent you should consult your education provider for more information.
The above measures may be extended further, in scope and time, at short notice.
The Office for Foreigners has put limitations on in-person appointments. If you’re living in Poland for over 3 months and trying to register your stay, check the guidance on residency during the coronavirus pandemic applicable to UK nationals.
Health
The Polish National Health Fund 24 hour info line (800 190 590 and press 6) provides English language advice on what steps to take if you are in Poland and suspect you might have coronavirus.
For contact details for English speaking doctors, visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Poland.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Poland, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
