The FCDO advises against all but essential travel to:
the whole of Poland based on the current assessment of COVID-19 risks.
If you are returning to the UK from Poland, you will need to self-isolate on your return (unless you are exempt). Check the latest guidance for England, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales.
Travel is subject to entry restrictions
UK nationals and non-EU/EEA nationals resident in the UK or another non-EU/EEA country will not be permitted entry to Poland from 01 January 2021 for non-essential purposes due to EU-wide COVID-19 restrictions.
Flights from UK to Poland suspended from midnight 21 December until at least 6 January.
From 28 December you are required to self-isolate on arrival in Poland if you enter by public transport, or have coronavirus symptoms, or have come into contact with someone who has.
A New Year’s Eve curfew is planned from 7pm on 31 December to 6am on 1 January . During this time there will be a ban on travel or movement.
See Entry requirements for more information before you plan to travel.
Preparing for your return journey to the UK
If you’re returning to the UK from overseas, you will need to:
provide your journey and contact details before you travel
check if you need to self-isolate on your return
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
Flights from UK to Poland are suspended from midnight 21 December until at least 6 January but this could change at short notice. Some flights during this period are still running from Poland to the UK with airlines making commercial decisions based on demand. If you were due to travel to or from Poland, contact your travel operator for more information.
Flights are still permitted between Poland and a number of countries including most members of the European Economic Area (EEA) and Switzerland. If you are travelling to Poland from a third country you should check online with your carrier and your departure airport to ensure your flight is still scheduled to depart before travelling to the airport.
UK nationals and non-EU/EEA nationals resident in the UK will not be permitted entry to Poland from 01 January 2021 for non-essential purposes due to EU-wide COVID-19 restrictions. Essential travel is still permitted and a list of exemptions for entering Poland can be found here on the Polish Government website (in English) or on the Polish Border Guards website (in Polish).
These restrictions do not apply to UK nationals who are legally resident in Poland. You will be allowed to re-enter the country, but may need to show proof of residence.
If you’re planning travel to Poland, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCDO’s guidance on foreign travel insurance.
There is a general threat from terrorism. There may be increased security in place over the festive period, including at Christmas markets and other major events that might attract large crowds. You should remain vigilant and follow the advice of the local authorities.
Many British nationals visit Poland every year. Most visits are trouble-free.
Terrorist attacks in Poland can’t be ruled out. See Terrorism 
If you’re living in or moving to Poland, read the Living in Poland guide in addition to this travel advice.
Driving in Poland can be hazardous. See Road travel
If you hold dual Polish and British nationality, the British Embassy may only be able to offer limited consular assistance.
If you need to contact the emergency services in Poland call 112.
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.
The Overseas Business Risk service offers information and advice for British companies operating overseas on how to manage political, economic, and business security-related risks.
