Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Eswatini on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
Eswatini Air Link services between Johannesburg OR Tambo and Sikhuphe International Airport in Eswatini are currently suspended. For further information, follow our travel advice for South Africa.
Other countries may restrict movement or bring in new quarantine rules with little warning. You should check the travel advice for the countries on your route for the latest information.
Entry and borders
Entry and exit to South Africa via some land borders is restricted. Cross-border travel remains strictly for medical, educational and essential purposes. Business travellers providing services across the borders between South Africa and the Southern African Development Community are allowed multiple entry subject to producing a certificate of negative PCR (polymerase chain reaction) result not older than 72 hours from the time of departure. It should be conducted by a certified medical practitioner, and should have the name and signature of the practitioner who conducted the test. This certificate is valid for 14 days.
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Eswatini.
Returning to the UK
Travelling from and returning to the UK
Eswatini is on the red list for entering England. Check what you must do to travel abroad and return to England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
If you plan to pass through another country to return to the UK, check the travel advice for the country you’re transiting. You must book your hotel quarantine package before you start your journey to the UK.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Eswatini
Travel within Eswatini is possible, but road blocks or unexpected protests and road closures could occur. You should avoid protests, demonstrations, or marches. Stay alert for signs of disturbances. Travel after 9pm is not permitted whilst the curfew is in place.
It is compulsory to wear a mask everywhere, even when travelling alone in a vehicle. There is a requirement for 1.5 metres of social distance with others.
Accommodation
A few hotels are open for business despite the partial lockdown. Strict hygiene measures are in place to ensure guest safety.
Public places and services
A curfew has been introduced from 9pm to 4am in response to civil unrest. No one should be on the street after 9pm.
From 14 June 2021, all retailers will be shut after 7pm.
Gatherings remain prohibited except for funerals, community meetings, weddings, professional low-contact sports and religious services. Gatherings are limited to 2.5 hours, with a maximum of 50 people indoors and 100 people outdoors.
Only outdoor entertainment and arts activities are allowed. The maximum number of people permitted at an outdoor entertainment event has been reduced to 200.
It is compulsory to wear a mask everywhere, even when travelling alone in a vehicle. There is a requirement for 1.5 metres of social distance with others.
Healthcare in Eswatini
If you think you have COVID-19 symptoms, you should call the Government of Eswatini’s coronavirus hotline for further advice on 977.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Eswatini.
For contact details of English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Eswatini
Wherever possible British nationals should aim to be vaccinated in the country where they live. We will update this page when the Government of Eswatini announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Eswatini national vaccine programme started in March 2021 and is using the AstraZeneca vaccine. The Government of Eswatini has stated that British nationals resident in Eswatini are eligible for vaccination. People wishing to access a vaccine should register on the Eswatini Ministry of Health website. Once registered you will receive a message with your SMS code. You will need to show this code when you go for your vaccination, along with your national Identity document.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad..
If you’re a British national living in Eswatini, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
