This page has information on travelling to Eswatini. Check what you must do to return to the UK.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport from the UK, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Eswatini set and enforce entry rules.
All travellers
Usually British passport holders do not require visas for Eswatini.
Entry and exit to South Africa from Eswatini via some land borders is restricted.
Whether you are fully vaccinated or not, specific conditions must be met in order to enter Eswatini.
All travellers must be able to provide evidence, in paper copy, of a negative COVID-19 PCR test on entry to Eswatini. This test must have been taken no more than 72 hours before entry.
Upon arriving in Eswatini, you will be screened for COVID-19 symptoms and asked about your country of origin and any transit stops. If you unable to present a negative COVID-19 result on entry, or if you display COVID-19 symptoms, you will be required to take a COVID-19 test on arrival at your own cost. You may be required to undergo a quarantine period not exceeding 14 days, or isolation as advised by the port health officers
You should not use the NHS testing service to get a test in order to facilitate your travel to another country. You should arrange to take a private test.
In addition, conditions apply on exiting Eswatini. You are required to take a COVID-19 test no more than 72hrs before you leave Eswatini. You must make all arrangements for this test at a private laboratory and is at your own expense. On departure, you must be able to provide a paper copy of a negative COVID-19 test.
If you’re fully vaccinated
Entry requirements for Eswatini are the same for all travellers, regardless of COVID-19 vaccination status.
Proof of vaccination status
You don’t need to provide your vaccination status for entry to Eswatini. Requirements are the same for entry to Eswatini regardless of vaccination status.
If you’re not fully vaccinated
Entry requirements for Eswatini are the same for all travellers, regardless of COVID-19 vaccination status.
If you’ve had COVID-19 in the past year
Entry requirements for Eswatini are the same for all travellers, regardless of whether you have tested positive for COVID-19 in the past year.
Children and young people
Children must follow the same entry and departure processes as adults.
If you’re transiting through a South African airport with children, see our South Africa travel advice page for information and advice about the documents you’ll need to carry.
If you’re transiting through Eswatini
Transiting is when you pass through one country on the way to your final destination.
Check with your airline before departing.
Exemptions
There are no exemptions to Eswatini’s entry requirements.
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
Passport validity
If you are visiting Eswatini, your passport should be valid for 3 months from the date you arrive and have at least 2 blank pages.
If you intend to visit South Africa before or after travelling to Eswatini, you’ll need to have an additional 2 blank pages to enter and leave South Africa.
Check with your travel provider to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Visas
Usually British passport holders do not require visas for Eswatini.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents are accepted for entry into, transit and exit from Eswatini. Your Emergency Travel Document should have a minimum of 6 months remaining validity.
Returning to the UK
There are no direct commercial options to return to the UK from Eswatini. All air travel is via South Africa. There are regular Eswatini Air Link services between Johannesburg OR Tambo and Sikhuphe International Airport in Eswatini. See the Air Link Services website or contact the airline for the latest information.
Check what you must do to return to the UK.
