At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
Coronavirus
Cases of coronavirus (COVID-19) have been confirmed in Eswatini.
The Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advise against all but essential travel to Eswatini. This is due to the South African authorities announcing measures restricting individuals entering South Africa if they have come from various countries affected by coronavirus (COVID-19), including the United Kingdom. These measures will come in to effect as of 18 March.
British Nationals in Eswatini, particularly those who have been in a coronavirus affected country (including the UK) in the past 20 days, should be aware that it is possible they may not be able to leave Eswatini by road into South Africa after 18 March. British Nationals will still be able to transit through OR Tambo International Airport in Johannesburg.
You should comply with any additional screening measures put in place by the authorities. Keep up to date with information from your tour operator, transport or accommodation provider on the impact of any existing travel plans.
If you need further information about entry requirements, contact the local immigration authorities or the nearest Eswatini high commission. You should also check with your airline or travel company for the latest information.
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
You can find more information about cases in Eswatini on the TravelHealthPro page.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Basic healthcare is available in Eswatini, but there are shortages of even common medications. Medical evacuation to South Africa is necessary for serious accidents and emergencies. Local private hospitals can arrange evacuation but only if you are fully insured or you can produce funds in advance. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation.
UNAIDS in 2015 estimated that around 210,000 adults aged 15 or over in Eswatini were living with HIV; the prevalence percentage was estimated at around 28.8% of the adult population compared to the prevalence percentage rate in adults in the UK of around 0.2%. You should exercise normal precautions to avoid exposure to HIV/AIDS.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 933 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
