Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

There are no viable departure options at the current time. British nationals in Eswatini, particularly those who have been in a coronavirus affected country (including the UK) in the past 20 days, should be aware that it is not possible to leave Eswatini by road into South Africa after 20 March without a visa. The last Airlink flight left Eswatini on 26 March. It is no longer be possible to leave Eswatini by commercial aircraft until further notice. South African airspace closed to commercial aircraft as of midnight 26 March. Follow our travel advice for South Africa.
We know this is concerning for British people trying to leave Eswatini. The UK government is working closely with airlines, the Eswatini authorities and other governments to make sure options are available for you to return to the UK as soon as possible.
What to do
If you cannot leave Eswatini at this time, you should:
follow the advice of local authorities, including local measures to help minimise your risk of exposure to coronavirus.
find accommodation that’s suitable for your needs.
keep in regular contact with family and friends at home, so they know you are safe and well.
Future Travel Options
The UK government is working closely with airlines, the Eswatini authorities and other governments to make sure options are available for you to return to the UK as soon as possible.
This travel advice will be updated when departure options become available.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
See more information and advice about staying where you are if you cannot return to the UK.
Your journey home
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Further information
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
