

Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.  
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Eswatini
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Eswatini, attacks cannot be ruled out.
Political situation
There were a series of security-related incidents in 2021 and 2022 , including:
arson attacks
targeted assassinations
kidnapping of security forces personnel
ATM robberies
retaliatory police raids
This led to demonstrations taking place at short notice. These have subsided over the last year but violent confrontations between protestors and security forces have been known to lead to fatalities and injuries. You should:
avoid protests and marches
be aware of your surroundings, especially after dark
monitor local media
keep up to date with developments
Crime
Protecting yourself and your belongings
There can be casual theft, pickpocketing and occasional muggings, particularly at the edges of towns and cities. Armed robbery has happened but is not common. You should:
avoid walking in the downtown areas of Mbabane and Manzini after dark
not travel in remote rural areas alone
keep valuables in a safe place
avoid carrying large amounts of money
keep expensive-looking jewellery and watches out of sight
Criminal activity usually increases during the pre-Christmas festive season.
Carjacking
Criminals steal vehicles at gunpoint. There have been many carjackings on major routes to Eswatini from South Africa and Mozambique and along the Mbabane-Manzini corridor. Avoid travelling by car at night.
If you break down or get a flat tyre, do not accept help from strangers, who could be carjackers or muggers. Carjackers also sometimes pose as distressed motorists. You should:
park in well-lit areas
not pick up strangers
not stop to assist motorists
report incidents to the police
Laws and cultural differences
Illegal drugs and prison sentences
Punishments for possessing or smuggling narcotic drugs can be severe. You can be imprisoned for illegal drug offences.
LGBT+ travellers
Same-sex sexual activity is illegal in Eswatini. LGBT+ people experience discrimination, and many are not open about their sexual orientation or gender identity. Showing affection in public will most likely be frowned on by locals. Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Transport risks
Road travel
If you are planning to drive in Eswatini, see information on driving abroad.
You’ll need to have both the 1949 version of the international driving permit (IDP) and your UK driving licence with you in the car. You cannot buy an IDP outside the UK, so get one before you travel.
Hire car companies often require their customers to have a year of driving experience.
Drink-driving is a serious offence in Eswatini. If you are tested and found to have more than a 50mg per 100ml of alcohol in your system (in England it is 80mg), you may get a fine and possible imprisonment. The police operate random roadside checks regularly and strictly enforce the law.
Road conditions
The standard of driving in Eswatini is poor. Speeding is a problem. Minor roads are not well maintained, and road markings are poor.
Take care driving in rural areas as animals stray on to roads and cause serious accidents and deaths. Avoid driving on rural roads at night – there is a risk of hitting abandoned, unlit trailers and poorly lit heavy vehicles.
Public transport
Travel by public transport can be dangerous due to poor standards of driving, lack of rest periods for drivers, the poor quality of vehicles and poor road conditions. However, the airport transfer coaches between Johannesburg and Mbabane are generally safe. Minibuses used in urban areas are usually severely overcrowded and poorly maintained.
Extreme weather and natural disasters
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards.
Flooding
In the wet summer months from November to April, violent thunderstorms with lightning, heavy rain, and hailstones are common, especially in the highlands (‘Highveld’). These sometimes damage property and road infrastructure and cause flooding in some areas.
