Coronavirus guidance is being updated.
Read the Prime Minister’s statement for the latest information.

This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Eswatini as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Eswatini to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Eswatini
For information on entering Eswatini, see Entry Requirements
From 19 May the partial lockdown was extended for another month with minor easing around the opening of some businesses. The army and police will continue to be deployed to ensure compliance with the lockdown measures introduced:
movements outside of the home perimeter will be restricted, with exception of acquiring essential services such as healthcare, food and banking services
non-essential travel between towns will be restricted
public transport will only operate for essential movements
food outlets and banks will be restricted to 20 people
all bars and off licenses will be closed
public gatherings of more than 20 people will be prohibited
Health
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Eswatini.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Eswatini, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
