The FCDO advises against all but essential travel to:
the whole of Eswatini based on the current assessment of COVID-19 risks.
From 4am on Saturday 9 January, visitors arriving into England who have been in or transited through Eswatini in the previous 10 days will not be permitted entry. British and Irish nationals, and third country nationals with residence rights in the UK arriving in England from Eswatini will be required to quarantine in a hotel. Different rules apply for arrivals into Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland.
The FCDO is not advising those already travelling in Eswatini to leave at this time. Travellers should follow the advice of the local authorities on how best to protect themselves and others, including any measures that they bring in to control the virus. You should contact your tour operator or airline if you have any questions about your return journey.
Travel is subject to entry restrictions.
Visitors from the United Kingdom are allowed to travel to Eswatini under specific conditions:
A COVID-19 test must be performed no more than 72 hours before departure and you must be able to demonstrate a negative test result on entry.
Upon arriving in Eswatini, you will be screened for COVID-19 symptoms and asked about your country of origin and any transit stops.
If you do not present a negative COVID-19 result on entry, or if you display COVID-19 symptoms, you will be required to take a COVID-19 test on arrival at your own cost.
You may be required to undergo a quarantine period not exceeding 14 days or isolation as advised by the port health officers.
See Entry requirements for more information before you plan to travel.
Check the guidance on entering or returning to the UK.
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
The South African Government has closed the land borders between South Africa and neighbouring countries until 15 February 2021. Travellers wishing to transit through South Africa to other countries in the Southern African Development Community (SADC) or abroad can only do so via King Mswati III Airport to connect at OR Tambo Airport. Flights between South Africa and neighbouring countries remain open. See our Travel Advice for South Africa for further information.
If you’re planning travel to Eswatini, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
There are no direct commercial options to return to the UK from Eswatini. All air travel is via South Africa. See Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCDO’s guidance on foreign travel insurance.
For information about COVID-19 vaccines, see the Coronavirus page.
The rainy season in Eswatini runs from November to April and may bring with it hazardous weather. See Natural Disasters.
Consular support is limited in Eswatini as the British High Commission does not provide consular services. If you are in Eswatini and need urgent help from the UK government, call +27 12 421 7500. If you are in the UK and worried about a British national in Eswatini, call 020 7008 1500. The British High Commission in Pretoria can provide consular support to British nationals in Eswatini.
On 19 April 2018, King Mswati III announced that Swaziland had officially changed its name to Eswatini.
Most visits are trouble-free. Crime levels are relatively low for the southern Africa region, but you should take sensible precautions as there is often an increase in criminal activity during the festive season. See Crime
You should avoid rallies, demonstrations and gatherings as these can be dispersed forcefully by the police.
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Eswatini, attacks can’t be ruled out. See Terrorism
