Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for San Marino on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Entry and borders
You will need to travel through Italy in order to enter San Marino. See Entry requirements for more information.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Public spaces and services
All visitors must comply with social distancing and sanitisation regulations. You will also be required to wear a face mask on public transport, in all indoor public spaces, and in outdoor spaces where it is not possible to maintain 1 metre social distancing.
Bars and restaurants are open with no restriction on opening hours. Theatres, museums and cinemas remain open, and religious ceremonies, including weddings and funerals are allowed.
Gatherings (groups over 10 people where social distancing cannot be maintained) in public or private places are strictly forbidden.
San Marino will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 recovery and vaccination record. If you are travelling with a printed PDF proof of vaccination status, it must date from 1 November to ensure that the certificate can be scanned successfully, if domestic certification is required. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
You can see more on the latest restrictions on the San Marino Ministry of Foreign Affairs website.
Healthcare in San Marino
If you believe you have symptoms, call San Marino’s coronavirus emergency number 0549 994001 (from 0800 – 1800) or 0549 888888 (from 1800 – 0800). Do not go directly to a hospital or healthcare facility.
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in San Marino.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in San Marino
Wherever possible British nationals should aim to be vaccinated in the country where they live. As further information is available about the national vaccination programme, this page will be updated. Sign up to get email notifications.
A national vaccination programme (only available in Italian) was launched in San Marino on 25 January. A comprehensive set of frequently asked questions gives information on the phases and priority groupings.
Bookings can be made on-line or by calling the Centro Unico di Prenotazione on 0549 994905. You should visit the Institute of Social Security (ISS) for full details.
The Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) is the UK authority responsible for assessing the safety, quality and efficacy of vaccines. It has authorised the Pfizer/BioNTech, Oxford/AstraZeneca and Moderna vaccines for temporary supply and use in the UK. Find out more about MHRA approval for these vaccines.
British nationals living overseas should seek medical advice from their local healthcare provider in the country where they reside. Information about vaccines used in other national programmes, including regulatory status, should be available from the local authorities. This list of Stringent Regulatory Authorities recognised by the World Health Organisation may also be a useful source of additional information. Find out more information about the COVID-19 vaccines on the World Health Organization COVID-19 vaccines page.
If you receive your COVID-19 vaccination in San Marino, you can get an EU Digital COVID Certificate from the national authorities. The Certificate proves that you have been vaccinated against COVID-19, received a negative test result, or recovered from COVID-19. It will help facilitate your travel within the EU and, in some countries, you can use it to demonstrate your COVID-19 status to businesses and other organisations. For further information visit the European Commission’s EU Digital COVID Certificate page.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
Further information
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
