This page has information on travelling to San Marino.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport from the UK, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in San Marino set and enforce entry rules. If you’re unsure how San Marino’s entry requirements apply to you, contact its UK embassy, high commission or consulate.
All travellers
You will need to travel through Italy in order to enter San Marino.
If your journey started outside of Italy or the Vatican City in the 14 days prior to your arrival in San Marino, you must show evidence of a vaccination certificate or a negative PCR or antigenic test, taken within 48 hours before entering San Marino. Children under the age of 10 do not need to show evidence of a test. Your test certificate must be emailed in advance to laboratorio.analisi@iss.sm.
Further information on entry requirements related to coronavirus measures can be found on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs website.
If you’re fully vaccinated
If you’re fully vaccinated, you can enter San Marino without needing to test or quarantine.
If your journey started outside of Italy or the Vatican City in the 14 days prior to your arrival in San Marino, you must show evidence of a vaccination certificate.
At least 14 days must have passed since your second dose of the vaccine and the vaccine must be approved by the European Medicines Agency.
Proof of vaccination status
San Marino will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 recovery and vaccination record. Your final vaccine dose must have been administered no more than 270 days prior to travel. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
If you’re not fully vaccinated
If you’re not fully vaccinated, you’ll need to show proof of a negative PCR or antigenic test, taken within 48 hours before entering San Marino. Your test certificate must be emailed in advance to laboratorio.analisi@iss.sm.
If you’ve had COVID-19 in the past year
If you’re not fully vaccinated but have tested positive for COVID-19 in the last six months you can enter San Marino.
You can use the UK COVID Pass to demonstrate proof of COVID-19 recovery when entering San Marino. The recovery certificate has a validity of 180 days from the first positive test.
Children and young people
Children aged 9 and under do not need to show proof of vaccination, recovery or evidence of a negative test.
If you’re transiting through Italy
Transiting is when you pass through one country on the way to your final destination.
You will need to travel through Italy in order to enter San Marino.
Exemptions
There are no exemptions to the entry requirements for San Marino.
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
Check with your travel provider to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Passport validity
If you are planning to travel to an EU country (except Ireland), or Switzerland, Norway, Iceland, Liechtenstein, Andorra, Monaco, San Marino or Vatican City, you must follow the Schengen area passport requirements.
Your passport must be:
issued less than 10 years before the date you enter the country (check the ‘date of issue’)
valid for at least 3 months after the day you plan to leave (check the ‘expiry date’)
You must check your passport meets these requirements before you travel. If your passport was issued before 1 October 2018, extra months may have been added to its expiry date.
Contact the embassy of the country you are visiting if you think that your passport does not meet both these requirements. Renew your passport if you need to.
Visas
You don’t need a visa to visit San Marino. If you’re staying in San Marino for less than 30 days in an official residency (ie hotel or bed and breakfast) you don’t need a ‘permesso di soggiorno turistico’. However, if you’re staying privately, you’ll need to report your stay to the Ufficio Stranieri (Foreigners’ Office) of the local Gendarmerie within 24 hours of arrival. If you’re staying for work you must apply for a ‘permesso per motivi di lavoro’ (a work permit), which is issued for some categories of workers only.
More information about permits is available on the San Marino website.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents are accepted for entry and exit from San Marino.
