At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Coronavirus
The Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advise against all but essential travel to San Marino, due to an ongoing outbreak of coronavirus (Covid-19) and in line with various controls and restrictions imposed by the Sammarinese authorities on 8 March and in conjunction with our Travel Advice for Italy.
British nationals remain able to depart San Marino without restriction with a valid passport and onward ticket. The Italian authorities have advised that tourists already on holiday should end their travel, unless it is necessary, to return to the place where they live.
Additional restrictions include the suspension of all public gatherings including sporting events and religious ceremonies. Schools and universities are also closed.
You can find more information on the emergency measures in place on the San Marino Ministry of Foreign Affairs website (in Italian and English).
If you believe you have symptoms, please do not go directly to a hospital or health care facility. Instead, please call San Marino’s coronavirus emergency number 0549 994001 (from 0800 – 1800) or 0549 888888 (from 1800 – 0800).
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
You can find more information about cases in San Marino on the TravelHealthPro website.
If you’re returning to the UK from San Marino, consult the latest advice from the Department of Health and Social Care on actions to take.
On 1 March, the government of San Marino introduced extraordinary civil protection measures in response to coronavirus (COVID-19). These include measures to restrict large numbers of people gathering, including the suspension of public sporting events, theatre performances, film showings, special religious events and other large scale public events. Schools and higher education institutions were and continue to be closed. Museums and cultural institutions were permitted to open, but with restrictions on numbers to ensure that individual visitors remain at least a metre apart. The requirement for at least a metre of space between customers also applied to bars and restaurants.
These measures were expanded on 8 March, with the suspension of all public gatherings, including sporting events, religious ceremonies, museums and cultural institutions, and the introduction of a ban on leaving the home except for essential reasons which may include work, healthcare or returning home. Entry and exit into San Marino is currently prohibited except for reasons of healthcare, cross-border working or essential need. Foreign Nationals are permitted to cross the border into Italy in order to return home but need a valid passport and onward ticket.
Local medical care
Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation. 
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 118 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
