This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in San Marino as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in San Marino to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Entry and borders
Entry and exit into San Marino is currently prohibited except for reasons of healthcare, cross-border working or essential need.
Foreign nationals are permitted to cross the border into Italy in order to return home but need a valid passport and onward ticket.
Local Measures
On 6 May 2020, San Marino moved into Phase 2 of its COVID-19 response. This included the easing of some domestic restrictions.
You can find more information on the emergency measures in place on the San Marino Ministry of Foreign Affairs website (in Italian).
Health
If you believe you have symptoms, call San Marino’s coronavirus emergency number 0549 994001 (from 0800 – 1800) or 0549 888888 (from 1800 – 0800). Do not go directly to a hospital or healthcare facility.
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in San Marino.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in San Marino, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
