The information on this page covers the most common types of travel and reflects the UK government’s understanding of the rules currently in place. Unless otherwise stated, this information is for travellers using a full ‘British Citizen’ passport.
The authorities in the country or territory you’re travelling to are responsible for setting and enforcing the rules for entry. If you’re unclear about any aspect of the entry requirements, or you need further reassurance, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
Entry rules in response to coronavirus (COVID-19)
Entry to Curaçao
Entry requirements for Curacao can be found here.
Information on domestic measures to limit the spread of the coronavirus can also be found on the same website. All incoming passengers must:
Complete the digital immigration card online before departure at dicardcuracao.com.
Within 48 hours before departure, you need to digitally fill out the Passenger Locator Card (PLC) and carry a printed document of proof with you. You may do so at dicardcuracao.com.
Each visitor entering Curaçao will need to show a negative result from a certified COVID-19 PCR-test and carry a printed document of proof with them. The test is taken at a maximum of 72 hours prior to departure at an accredited laboratory. You will be required to upload the negative test results of the COVID-19 PCR-test on dicardcuracao.com before departure.
The following entry conditions apply to all travellers:
Passengers must have not travelled to another country where there is a high-risk of COVID-19 infections or have been in contact with a person who has tested positively for COVID-19 within 14 days prior to arrival. If this is the case, you will be placed in mandatory quarantine
You must carry a printed document of proof of the Passenger Locator Card at all times during your travel.
You must be adequately insured for medical care and any additional costs if you are quarantined or become ill during your stay;
No cruise passengers are currently admitted;
If you do not meet the above conditions, you may be quarantined on arrival. This is entirely at your own expense.
Quarantine requirements
Passengers must meet the following requirements in order to not be quarantined on arrival:
Passengers must have not travelled to another country where there is a high-risk of COVID-19 infections or have been in contact with a person who has tested positively for COVID-19 within 14 days prior to arrival. If this is the case, you will be placed in mandatory quarantine;
You must carry a printed document of proof of the Passenger Locator Card at all times during your travel.
You must be adequately insured for medical care and any additional costs if you are quarantined or become ill during your stay;
No cruise passengers are currently admitted;
If you do not meet the above conditions, you may be quarantined on arrival. This is entirely at your own expense.
If you test positive for COVID-19 during your stay in Curaçao, you will be quarantined immediately.
Data collection
Data on passengers is collected via the mandatory Passenger Locator Card that all incoming passengers are obliged to complete.
Regular entry requirements
Visas
British nationals don’t need a visa for stays of up to 90 days in a calendar year. Extensions beyond 90 days can be requested at immigration, but you must have travel insurance for the duration of your extended stay.
Further information on visa requirements can be found at the Netherlands and You website.
Passport validity
Your passport should be valid for the proposed duration of your stay. You don’t need any additional period of validity on your passport beyond this.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents are accepted for entry, airside transit and exit from Curaçao.
