

Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Curaçao
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Curaçao, attacks cannot be ruled out.
Crime
Protecting yourself and your belongings
Petty theft and street crime are a concern. There are violent crimes related to the illegal drugs world, but the main tourist areas are generally safe. Take precautions such as:
avoiding isolated areas, including beaches, after dark
keeping valuables secure and out of sight
being on the look-out for bag snatchers
Drug smuggling
Criminals continue to use the islands of the Dutch Caribbean to smuggle illegal drugs from South America to Europe and North America. Because of this problem, never leave luggage unattended when departing the country. Do not discuss or agree to carry a package for anyone. You may be asked to have a body scan at some airports. Dutch authorities generally screen all baggage and passengers from the Dutch Caribbean. 
Laws and cultural differences
Personal ID
You must always carry a copy of the photo page of your passport with you.
LGBT+ travellers
Read advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Transport risks
Road travel
If you are planning to drive a hire car or a UK vehicle, see information on driving abroad.
You can use a UK photocard driving licence to drive in Curaçao. If you still have a paper driving licence, you may need to update it to a photocard licence or get the correct version of the international driving permit (IDP) as well.
Hire car companies often have stricter requirements for their customers, such as a year of driving experience and a higher minimum age.
Taxis
Check that a taxi is registered and agree the price before taking the ride. Most taxis do not have meters. Registered taxis have number plates that start with TX.
Extreme weather and natural disasters
Hurricanes
The hurricane season in the Dutch Caribbean normally runs from June to November. Most hurricanes pass well to the north of Curaçao, which has no record of a recent major hurricane. There are occasional tropical storms.
Monitor local news and check weather updates from the:
Meteorological Department Curaçao
US National Hurricane Center
World Meteorological Organization
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to hurricane warnings.
