The FCDO advises against all but essential travel to:
the whole of Curaçao based on the current assessment of COVID-19 risks.
If you are returning to the UK from Curaçao, you will need to self-isolate on your return (unless you are exempt). Check the latest guidance for England, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales.
Preparing for your return journey to the UK
If you’re returning to the UK from overseas, you will need to:
provide your journey and contact details before you travel
check if you need to self-isolate on your return
Travellers to Curaçao are required to complete a digital immigration card online prior to departure and a Passenger Locator Card within 48 hours prior to departure. Visitors are also required to show a negative result from a COVID-19 test.
See Entry requirements for more information before you plan to travel.
If you’re planning travel to Curaçao, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCDO’s guidance on foreign travel insurance.
Recent demonstrations on the island of Curaçao led to looting, vandalism and violence. See Political situation
The Venezuelan authorities have closed the borders with Aruba, Bonaire and Curaçao. There is currently no air or sea traffic between Curaçao and Venezuela. If you’re planning to travel on these routes, contact your tour operator for further advice.
The hurricane season normally runs from June to November. You should monitor local and international weather updates from the US National Hurricane Centre and follow the advice of local authorities, including any evacuation orders. See Natural disasters
UK health authorities have classified Curaçao as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For more information and advice, visit the website of the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.
Curaçao is used as a drug passageway from South America to Europe and North America. Don’t leave bags unattended nor agree to carry a package for anyone. See Crime
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Curaçao, attacks can’t be ruled out. See Terrorism
If you need to contact the emergency services, call 911 (police and fire), 912 (ambulance) or 913 (coastguard).
