This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Mayotte set and enforce entry rules. For further information contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to. You should also consider checking with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Entry rules in response to coronavirus (COVID-19)
Travel to Mayotte is severely restricted until further notice. Only travellers who can prove that entry is for urgent family/work reasons will be allowed to enter, and they will be expected to fill in a travel certificate (available here) and provide proof . Quarantine may be requested by authorities in other territories if travelling from Mayotte.
All travellers over the age of 11 must undertake a test for COVID-19 within 72 hours before departure for Mayotte. The test is obligatory and the traveller must show proof of a negative result before embarking.
Travellers may also need to produce a self-certified document affirming that they have no COVID symptoms and that to their knowledge they have not been in contact with any person confirmed positive within the last 14 days. You should check with your travel operator and the local Prefecture’s advice ahead of travel.
Airlines may refuse boarding to anyone who does not produce both proof of a negative result and the self-certified document.
Travellers will also be required to self-isolate for seven days on arrival in Martinique, before taking another PCR test.
These entry requirements are subject to change. For further information on the entry restrictions in place for French Overseas Territories, see the French government’s website before travelling.
If travelling via France, you should also check our Travel Advice for France.
Visas
If you hold a British Citizen passport, you don’t need a visa to enter Mayotte. If you’re planning a stay of longer than 3 months, contact the French Embassy if you have further questions. You can also find information on the French Government’s website.
UK residents in Mayotte
If you live in Mayotte you should carry your residence document, as well as your valid passport when you travel. If you have applied but not yet received your document, carry your certificate of application. You will have received this as an email. If you have not yet applied for a residence document, you should carry evidence that you are resident in Mayotte. This could include a tenancy agreement or a utility bill in your name, dating from 2020. For more information, including on how to apply for a residence document, see the French government’s website.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK ETDs are accepted for entry, airside transit and exit from Mayotte.
