

Terrorism  
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.      
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.  
Terrorism in Mayotte  
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Mayotte, attacks cannot be ruled out.   
Outdoor activities and adventure tourism 
Swimming safety 
See water safety on holiday from the Royal Life Saving Society. 
Scuba diving 
Diving schools may have limited resources and do not always observe safety and maintenance standards. Always:    
check a dive operator’s credentials 
check the conditions on your insurance policy – some policies require dive instructors to have certain qualifications 
make sure safety equipment is available on the boat, particularly oxygen 
ask about safety precautions, including the ability to transfer divers to a hyperbaric chamber 
If you have not had any previous diving experience, check what to do if something goes wrong, including how to call for help while at sea. 
Transport risks  
Road travel 
If you are planning to drive in Mayotte, see information on driving abroad and check the rules of the road in the RAC’s France guide as French driving laws apply. The guide lists driving regulations and other legal requirements you need to be aware of. 
Check with the local authorities or your car hire company what documents you need. You may need an international driving permit (IDP) as well as your UK driving licence. 
Sea travel 
There is a significant risk of piracy in the Gulf of Aden and Indian Ocean. The threat assessment of the combined international naval counter-piracy forces is that sailing yachts should not enter the designated high-risk area due to the risk of hijacking. 
Extreme weather and natural disasters 
Tropical cyclones 
The cyclone season in Mayotte normally runs from December to April. Monitor local news and check French Weather Service (in French) and World Meteorological Organization. Follow advice issued by the local authorities. 
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards. 
