The FCO advise against all travel to Syria. The information on this page covers the most common types of travel and reflects the UK government’s understanding of the rules currently in place. Unless otherwise stated, this information is for travellers using a full ‘British Citizen’ passport.
The authorities in the country or territory you’re travelling to are responsible for setting and enforcing the rules for entry. If you’re unclear about any aspect of the entry requirements, or you need further reassurance, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
You should also consider checking with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Entry rules in response to coronavirus (COVID-19)
Entry to Syria
Some routes into and out of Syria are totally or partially closed.
On 22 March, the Syrian authorities banned all flights to and from Syria. Some non-commercial flights continue to use the airport and the Syrian authorities have allowed limited repatriation flights, primarily aimed at repatriating Syrian nationals.
Land crossings to neighbouring countries are largely closed, with some exceptions e.g. crossings being permitted for commerce and certain individuals only. Crossings between areas controlled by the Syrian regime and those controlled by non-regime forces are largely closed. Further restrictions, including border closures, may be introduced without notice.
Regular entry requirements
Visas
If you choose to travel to Syria against FCO advice, you will need to get a visa and security clearance before you travel.
In June 2013, the Syrian regime issued a law stating that individuals who enter Syrian territories illegally will be punished by a prison sentence of 5 to 10 years and/or a fine of 5 to 10 million Syrian pounds.
Passport validity
If you choose to travel to Syria against FCO advice, your passport should be valid for a minimum period of 3 months from the date of entry into Syria.
Previous travel to Israel
If you have an Israeli stamp in your passport or Emergency Travel Document it is highly likely that you will be refused entry into Syria, regardless of your nationality.
