!
Warning
FCDO advises against all travel to Syria.

Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times. 
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Syria                
Terrorists are very likely to try to carry out attacks in Syria.
There are multiple terrorist groups operating in Syria. There have been a number of terrorist attacks across Syria, including in major cities, resulting in large numbers of casualties. Daesh, formerly known as ISIL/ISIS, continues to carry out regular attacks, especially in, but not limited to, northeast Syria and Damascus.
Terrorist groups continue to pose a significant threat to civilians in Syria and have shown they can carry out coordinated attacks against civilian targets. On 2 June 2025, an attack in the Greek Orthodox Church of Prophet Elias, Damascus, killed at least 30 people.
Foreign nationals, including British nationals, and the places they frequently visit could be considered legitimate targets. This includes:
public transport and transport hubs, such as airports
border crossings
public squares and other crowded places
religious sites and ceremonies, and places of worship
hotels, cafes and restaurants
commercial venues, including markets and stores
residential buildings and compounds
sports venues and stadiums
Attacks could also target:
military sites, security forces and institutions
oil facilities
government buildings and embassies
political offices and events
police stations
maritime facilities
hospitals, schools and universities
Types of attacks include shootings, large-scale co-ordinated bombings designed to cause mass casualties, suicide bombs, vehicle bombs, rockets and mortars.
Take particular care during periods of national or religious significance and on public holidays.
Terrorist kidnap
There is a very high threat of kidnapping from terrorists throughout Syria including from Al-Qaeda (AQ) affiliated groups and Daesh, formerly known as ISIL/ISIS. Terrorist groups operating in Syria routinely use kidnapping as a tactic for financial or political gain. There have been a number of kidnappings, including of British nationals and other westerners. Some hostages have been killed.
British nationals  are seen as legitimate targets, including British  officials, tourists, humanitarian aid workers, journalists, students and business travellers. If you are kidnapped, the reason for your presence is unlikely to protect you or secure your safe release.
The long-standing policy of the British government is not to make substantive concessions to hostage takers. The British government considers that paying ransoms and releasing prisoners builds the capability of terrorist groups and finances their activities. This can, in turn, increase the risk of further hostage-taking. The Terrorism Act (2000) makes payments to terrorists illegal.
Security situation
The situation in Syria remains volatile and dangerous after over a decade of conflict and insecurity. The Bashar al-Assad regime ended in December 2024. The new Syrian government in Damascus may lean towards conservative Islamist practices . Some areas within Syria are controlled by local armed groups, and are not under control of the Syrian government, including northeast Syria and Suwayda province in southern Syria.
Fighting and violence may occur around the country and is highly unpredictable. It includes artillery and airstrikes.
Fighting has, at various times, led to the temporary suspension of commercial flights, road closures, and the closure of some border crossings. Curfews may be imposed across the country.
Regional risks
Ongoing hostilities in the region and between Israel and Iran could escalate quickly and pose security risks for the wider region. There are reports of military debris falling in various locations. Travel disruptions, including flight cancellations and airspace closures may occur. Demonstrations and protest activity may take place.
You should:
monitor local and international media for the latest information
be vigilant and follow the instructions of local authorities
Political activity
The political situation in Syria can be volatile. Political demonstrations may escalate into violent protests and fighting. Monitor the media for information about possible demonstrations and be alert to local and regional developments, which may trigger public disturbances.
There may be risks to your safety, including detention, if you take part in political  activity in Syria.
Journalists in Syria
Journalists and other foreigners may be vulnerable to mistreatment, detention, and from armed groups, or confiscation of phones, cameras and video cameras by security forces.
Unexploded Weapons
Landmines and other unexploded weapons remain from the Syrian conflict. While highly populated areas and major routes are largely clear, there is still a risk in less populated and rural areas. Do not step off roads and paved areas without an experienced guide. Take care near:
the former lines of conflict
the edge of roads
the open countryside
destroyed or abandoned buildings (including in towns)
neglected land
untarred roads
woods and orchards
The Syrian desert
Basic services
There is a humanitarian crisis in Syria. Public infrastructure and services have been seriously affected by the conflict including lack of water, sanitation and health services. Electricity, internet and cellular services are intermittent in many parts of the country. Food supplies are extremely limited and what is available is often prohibitively expensive. It is often difficult to get or pay for basic goods and services, including food and fuel.
Sanctions
The UK has sanctions in place on Syria. Since the fall of the Assad regime, the UK has removed sanctions on some sectors.  See the Office of Financial Sanctions Implementation, HM Treasury, and UK sanctions on Syria for more information.
Crime
The humanitarian crisis and instability  has led to a rise in crime in most areas in the country, including extortion at checkpoints, violent robbery, carjacking and kidnapping.
Criminal kidnapping
There continues to be a risk of criminal kidnap for ransom. Foreign nationals, including Westerners, may be considered lucrative targets.
Laws and cultural differences
Religion
Syria is a multi-faith country. Alongside the majority Sunni population, there are large practising Shia, Christian, Druze and Alawite communities, as well as other smaller sects and religions. Divisions along sectarian lines continue and flashes of sectarian violence are likely. Communities have been displaced and levels of religious tolerance can vary considerably. There are restrictions on unlicensed political activity and political parties are banned under the new authorities in Damascus.
Personal ID
You must carry copies of your passport photo page and visa for identification.
Illegal drugs penalties
There are severe penalties for drug offences in Syria. The penalty for drug possession is life imprisonment, and the death penalty applies for drug trafficking.
Money
As a result of the 14-year  conflict, there are restrictions on financial transactions in Syria and limitations on cash withdrawals in country. Prices for certain items may be listed in US dollar. There is minimal or no use of electronic payment systems to purchase goods.
Ramadan
Ramadan is a holy month for Muslims. The dates vary by year and country. During this time, you should:           
check opening hours of shops and restaurants
be aware that if hotels and restaurants are providing food or drink in fasting hours, they may separate you from Muslim  guests, for example with screens
follow local dress codes – clothing that does not meet local dress codes may cause more offence at this time
be aware that fasting can cause tiredness, particularly during the later afternoon and early evening
be patient and show tolerance
Transport risks
Road travel
Road travel is very dangerous in many parts of the country due to lack of road maintenance,   the fragile security situation and unexploded weapons.
Driving standards and traffic systems are poor, and the accident rate is high. Driving at night is particularly dangerous.
If you are driving a car and are involved in an accident with a pedestrian, it is likely you’ll be held legally responsible.
Road networks may be blocked without warning. There are security force checkpoints on major road routes.
Air travel
There are a limited number of international flights operating to and from Syria. Fighting has, at various times, led to the temporary suspension of commercial flights and closure of airports. Damascus airport and Aleppo airport are currently operating with some international flights. Other airports remain closed.
Extreme weather and natural disasters
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards.
Earthquakes
Earthquakes are a risk in Syria. These can be high magnitude, cause damage to infrastructure and put lives at risk. The US Federal Emergency Management Agency website has advice about what to do before, during and after an earthquake.
