Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Somalia on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
Commercial flights operate to Somalia, including Somaliland. Check with your travel company for the latest information.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Somalia, including Somaliland.
Returning to the UK
Travelling from and returning to the UK
Check what you must do to travel abroad and return to England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
If you plan to pass through another country to return to the UK, check the travel advice for the country you’re transiting. If you will pass through a red list country, book your hotel quarantine package before travelling to the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements. You should contact the Somali Ministry of Health and the Immigration and Naturalisation Directorate of Somalia for information on testing facilities.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Public places and services
The Somali authorities at national and local level (excluding Somaliland) have put in place a range of measures to control the spread of COVID-19. In Mogadishu, these include a night-time curfew, as well as measures relating to public gatherings, schools and mosques.
The Somaliland authorities issued measures to control the spread of COVID-19 on 22 March 2021. The measures include:
Wearing of facemasks in all public and private spaces, including at mosques and public gatherings.
Social distancing of 2 metres (1.5 metres in mosques)
Installation and use of hand washing and sanitising equipment
Avoidance of public gatherings. Where public gatherings do take place they must be well ventilated and attendees must wear masks, socially distance and wash hands.
Closure of sports centres, gyms and playgrounds.
Additional measures at mosques
Healthcare in Somalia
For contact details for English speaking doctors, visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Somalia.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Somalia
If you’re a British national living in Somalia, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Consular support is severely limited in Somalia. The British Embassy in Mogadishu does not provide consular services. If you’re in Somalia (excluding Somaliland) and need urgent help from the UK government, contact the British High Commission in Nairobi. If you’re in Somaliland, you should contact the British Embassy in Addis Ababa. If you’re in the UK and are concerned about a British national in Somalia (including Somaliland), call the FCDO on 020 7008 5000.
