

This page has information on travelling to Somalia.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport from the UK, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Somalia set and enforce entry rules. If you’re unsure how Somalia’s entry requirements apply to you, contact its UK embassy, high commission or consulate
All travellers
All travellers should familiarise themselves with the entry rules for Somalia and Somaliland before travel.
All travellers should check entry requirements into Somalia before travelling to the borders of Ethiopia, Djibouti or Kenya. You should not cross the border without the correct documents. You may face a large fine or detention for illegally crossing borders and you may be prevented from onward travel.
Entry to Somalia (excluding Somaliland) if you’re fully vaccinated
Fully vaccinated travellers with proof of vaccination issued by a legitimate and competent authority can enter Somalia, excluding Somaliland, without needing to test.
International arrivals displaying signs and symptoms of COVID-19 may be requested to undergo rapid antigen testing, and be quarantined in a hotel at their own cost, if they test positive.
Proof of vaccination status in Somalia (excluding Somaliland)
Somalia will accept the UK’s printed version of proof of COVID-19 vaccination record and proof of COVID-19 vaccination issued in the Crown Dependencies. They will not accept digital proof. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
Entry to Somaliland if you’re fully vaccinated
Fully vaccinated travellers with proof of vaccination issued by a legitimate and competent authority can enter Somaliland without needing to test.
Entry to Somalia (excluding Somaliland) if you’re not fully vaccinated
If you’re not fully vaccinated, a negative COVID-19 PCR test certificate with a QR code from an authorised service provider (taken no more than 72 hours to arrival at the final destination) is required for entry into Somalia, excluding Somaliland. See information on getting a test before entry.
International arrivals displaying signs and symptoms of COVID-19 may be requested to undergo rapid antigen testing, and be quarantined in a hotel at their own cost if they test positive.
If you’ve had COVID-19 in the past year
Entry requirements for Somalia, including Somaliland, are the same for all travellers, regardless of whether you have tested positive for COVID-19 in the past year.
Entry to Somaliland if you’re not fully vaccinated
A negative COVID-19 PCR test, taken no more than 96 hours before travel, is required for entry into Somaliland. If you do not have this evidence on arrival, then you will be required to take a PCR test at the airport at your own expense. If you test positive, you may have to spend 14 days in quarantine at your own expense in a government approved facility.
Children and young people - entry to Somalia (excluding Somaliland)
Fully vaccinated children aged 17 and under with proof of vaccination issued by a legitimate and competent authority can enter Somalia, excluding Somaliland, without needing to test or quarantine.
If you’re not fully vaccinated, a negative COVID-19 PCR test certificate with a QR code from an authorised service provider (taken no more than 72 hours to arrival at the final destination) is required for entry into Somalia, excluding Somaliland. See information on getting a test before entry.
All international arrivals displaying signs and symptoms of COVID-19 may be requested to undergo rapid antigen testing, and be quarantined in a hotel at their own cost if they test positive.
Children and young people - entry to Somaliland
Fully vaccinated children aged 17 and under with proof of vaccination issued by a legitimate and competent authority can enter Somaliland without needing to test.
If you’re not fully vaccinated, a negative COVID-19 PCR test, taken no more than 96 hours before travel, is required for entry into Somaliland. If you do not have this evidence on arrival, then you will be required to take a PCR test at the airport at your own expense. If you test positive, you may have to spend 14 days in quarantine at your own expense in a government approved facility.
If you’re transiting through Somalia (including Somaliland)
Transiting is when you pass through one country on the way to your final destination.
Check with your airline before departing.
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
You should consider checking with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Passport validity
If you are visiting Somalia, including Somaliland, your passport should be valid for at least 6 month from the date you arrive in Somalia, including Somaliland.
Visas
You will need a visa for all travel to Somalia, including Somaliland. If you arrive at Mogadishu International Airport, you can get a single entry visa, valid for one month, for US$60 in cash. You may also be required to provide a letter of invitation on arrival in Somalia outlining the purpose of your travel. You can usually get this from your place of work (a hotel booking may also suffice). Without this letter, you could be denied entry.
You can also get a single entry visa, valid for one month, on arrival in Somaliland for US$60 in cash.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
Dual nationality
The Government of Somalia and the authorities in Somaliland will consider anyone of Somali or Somaliland descent to be a dual British and Somali/Somaliland national. The British Government is limited in the consular support it can offer in such circumstances.
