At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
There are basic hospital facilities in Hargeisa. Elsewhere medical facilities are extremely limited or non-existent. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad, evacuation by air ambulance and repatriation.
There have been confirmed cases of acute watery diarrheal syndrome in the Lower Shebelle Region of Somalia and Cholera in Banaadir Region.
The World Health Organisation has issued temporary recommendations about polio vaccination. For more information and advice visit the website of the National Travel Health Network and Centre and contact your GP before you travel.
Coronavirus
Coronavirus (COVID-19) has been confirmed in Somalia. Local authorities announced that, with a view to preventing the spread of the virus, travelers will not be allowed entry to Somalia if they started their journey or transited China, Iran, Italy or the Republic of Korea within the preceding 14 days. Entry screening has been introduced and individuals may be detained in isolation pending the results of testing for the virus.
There are no confirmed cases of coronavirus (COVID-19) in Somaliland. Entry screening has been introduced and individuals may be detained in isolation pending the results of testing for the virus. Travelers will be subject to 14 days self-isolation if they started their journey or transited China, France, Iran, Italy, Kenya, the Republic of Korea or Spain in the preceding 14 days. British Nationals who wish to leave should contact their airline or travel company and insurance provider as soon as they are able, and keep up to date with the latest developments.
Land borders with neighbouring countries may close at short notice. You should check with local authorities before travelling to the border. You should also monitor Travel Advice for Ethiopia or Kenya. You should not cross the border without the correct documents.
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping to reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
