!
Warning
FCDO advises against all travel to parts of Somalia.

This section has safety advice for regions of Somalia. It only covers regions where the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) has specific advice.
You should also read FCDO’s overall travel advice and safety and security advice.
Togdheer, Sanaag and Sool
The Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) advises against all travel to the regions of Toghdeer, Sanaag and Sool in eastern Somaliland. The situation remains volatile, so if you do travel, exercise extreme caution.
Renewed violence broke out between the Somaliland army and clan militias in Las Anod, Sool Region, on 6 February 2023 and the situation remains tense.
On 9 August 2023, a clan militia carried out activities in Dabagorayaale, close to Oodweyne town in Toghdeer region. Protests also took place in Burao, Toghdeer, and Erigavo in the Sanaag region.
Awdal, Maroodijeh and Sahil
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to the 3 western regions of Somaliland – Awdal (including Boorama), Maroodijeh (including Hargeisa) and Sahil (including Berbera).
On 11 August 2023, violent clashes occurred between the clan militia based in Ga’an Libah and the Somaliland security forces in Go’da Yar near the mountain.
Border areas
Check with local authorities before travelling to the border, and monitor travel advice for your destination: Ethiopia, Kenya or Djibouti. If you try to cross the border without the correct documents, officials may stop you.
Land borders with countries neighbouring Somalia may close at short notice. You may get a fine or detention for illegally crossing borders. The land border with Kenya is currently closed due to recent cross border terrorist activity. There have been reports that foreign nationals have been prevented from crossing the Djiboutian border into Somalia, though the border remains open.
The rest of Somalia
FCDO advises against all travel to the rest of Somalia. There is ongoing, serious violence between opposing factions in many parts of the country. Civilians of all ages have been killed in fighting, which often involves heavy weapons.
