There are currently no commercial options available to return to the UK from Somalia (excluding Somaliland – see below). The Somali authorities have banned all passenger flights until further notice.
A special flight organised by the US government to repatriate US nationals and some others will depart from Mogadishu to Washington Dulles International Airport via Addis Ababa on 28 May. It is understood that there are seats remaining on this flight. The US Embassy in Mogadishu has noted that there is no guarantee any further flights will be available. If you are a British national in Somalia and you are interested in taking the flight to Addis Ababa with an onward connection to the UK please contact: Nairobi.ConsularEscalations@fco.gov.uk with the following information:
your full name as shown on your passport
passport number
date of birth
residential address in the UK
where exactly you are currently staying in Somalia
email address to contact you
any specific medical needs/vulnerabilities
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the UK government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, contact Nairobi.ConsularEscalations@fco.gov.uk.
If you cannot leave Somalia at this time, see advice on staying in Somalia during coronavirus.
Flights from Somaliland
There are still commercial options to return to the UK from Somaliland. If you live in the UK and are currently visiting Somaliland, you are strongly advised to return now by commercial means. Don’t risk getting stranded.
Ethiopian Airlines continue to fly around once a week between Hargeisa and Addis Ababa. Onward flights to the UK and European destinations are available from Addis Ababa.
contact Ethiopian Airlines or your travel company for the latest availability and booking information
check travel advice for Ethiopia for transit arrangements.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Future travel options
This travel advice will be updated when departure options become available. Sign up for email alerts
Your journey home
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
