!
Warning
FCDO advises against all travel to parts of Somalia.

This guide also has safety advice for regions of Somalia, including Somaliland.
Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.    
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Somalia
Terrorists are very likely to try to carry out attacks in Somalia, including Somaliland.
The terrorist group Al Shabaab, and other groups opposed to the Somali government, continue to carry out frequent attacks, including in the capital Mogadishu. Terrorist groups operating in Somalia have made threats against westerners and those working for western organisations in Somalia, including Somaliland.
Attacks could be indiscriminate and occur at any time, including in places visited by foreign such as:
government buildings
military bases
hotels and restaurants
transport hubs including the international airport
crowded places
at high-profile events
Stay aware of your surroundings, keep up to date with local media reports and follow the advice of local authorities. The Somali government regularly carries out counter-terrorist operations against Al-Shabaab, mainly in central and southern Somalia. There has recently been a significant increase in conflict between al-Shabaab and Somali Security Forces in the Middle Shabelle region, and increased threats against Mogadishu security.
Examples of previous significant attacks include:
In March 2025 there was an attack on Cairo Hotel in Beledweyne with more than six people killed
in August 2024, there was an attack on Lido Beach in Mogadishu with more than fifty civilians killed and over 200 injured
in July 2024, there was an attack on Top Coffee Restaurant in Mogadishu with many civilians reported killed and injured
in June 2023, there was an attack on the Pearl Beach Hotel at Lido Beach in Mogadishu with at least 9 civilians reported killed and 10 injured
in 2022, 2 large improvised explosive devices (IEDs) were used to attack the Somali Ministry of Education, with over 100 civilians reported killed and 300 injured
in 2022, there was an attack on the Tawakal Hotel in the city of Kismayo, with 13 people reported killed and 47 injured
in 2022, there was an attack at the Hayat Hotel in central Mogadishu with 21 people reported killed and 117 injured
in 2022, there was a bomb attack at the Pescatore Seafood Restaurant in south Mogadishu, with 8 people reported killed and 27 injured
in 2022, there was a bomb attack inside Hassan Dhiif restaurant in the city of Beledweyne, with 18 people reported killed and 30 injured
in 2021, there was a bomb attack on a minibus travelling between Mogadishu and Jowhar, with at least 17 people reported killed and many injured
in 2020, there was an attack on the Elite Hotel in central Mogadishu, with 15 people reported killed and at least 15 injured
While attacks occur less frequently in Somaliland, terrorists are still very likely to try to carry out attacks.
The risk of attacks in Somalia, including Somaliland, may be further heightened during religious holidays.
Terrorist kidnaps
There is a high threat of kidnapping throughout Somalia, including in regions bordering Kenya and Ethiopia, and in Somaliland. Terrorists and criminal groups, including piracy groups, are involved in kidnapping. A number of western nationals, including British nationals, have been kidnapped in Somalia and some have been killed. 
British nationals are seen as legitimate targets, including tourists, humanitarian aid workers, journalists and business travellers. If you are kidnapped, the reason for your presence is unlikely to protect you or secure your safe release. 
The long-standing policy of the British government is to not make substantive concessions to hostage takers. The British government considers that paying ransoms and releasing prisoners builds the capability of terrorist groups and finances their activities. This can, in turn, increase the risk of further hostage-taking. The Terrorism Act (2000) makes payments to terrorists illegal. 
If you are working or travelling in Somalia, including in Somaliland, you should be aware of the risk of kidnapping. You should maintain a high level of vigilance at all times, including:
when travelling and at transport hubs
in crowded public places
in camps for displaced people
at religious gatherings and places of worship
in markets, shopping malls, hotels, bars and restaurants
Make sure you have carefully considered the threat and have reasonable, proportionate mitigation measures in place.
Political situation
Political and community-based violence is common across Somalia, including Somaliland, and can flare up with little warning. Take care in public places where people gather. Monitor local and international media to help you avoid areas where demonstrations, protests, large crowds or disturbances are taking place. Leave any area of unrest quickly and do not attempt to watch or photograph it.
Crime
There is a dangerous level of criminal activity by armed militia throughout Somalia. There have been murders, armed robbery and criminal kidnaps.
The humanitarian situation in Somalia has led to a large displacement of people, and a growth in refugee camps which are overpopulated. Food and health insecurity has led to an increase in crime, particularly around the refugee camps.
Laws and cultural differences
Personal ID 
Always carry your passport and visa with you as ID. Somali nationals should consult local authorities in Somalia on personal ID requirements.
Ramadan
Ramadan is a holy month for Muslims. The dates vary by year and country. During this time, do not:
eat, drink, smoke or chew gum in public in the daytime, including in your car
play loud music or dance
swear in public
Get more advice when you arrive from your tour guide, hotel or business contacts.
You should also:
check opening hours of shops and restaurants
be aware that if hotels and restaurants are providing food or drink in fasting hours, they may separate you from Islamic guests, for example with screens
follow local dress codes – clothing that does not meet local dress codes may cause more offence at this time
be aware that fasting can cause tiredness, particularly during the later afternoon and early evening
be patient and show tolerance
Public offences
Somalia has adopted Sharia law but is yet to implement it throughout the country. Al-Shabaab and other insurgent groups often have an extreme view on how to apply Sharia law.
It’s illegal for Somali Muslims to convert to another religion or promote any religion other than Islam.
Alcohol laws and bans
The drinking and sale of alcohol is banned in Somalia.
Illegal drugs and prison sentences
Drug offences, including drug use, possession and trafficking, are treated seriously in Somalia and are punishable by law. Possible punishments include a lengthy prison sentence without bail.
LGBT+ travellers
Same-sex sexual activity is illegal in Somalia. LGBT+ partners should not show affection in public.
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Money
Credit cards are not widely accepted in Somalia and it is not possible to get currency advances using a credit card. You should take cash with you into the country. The US dollar is the main currency for exchanging in Somalia.
In Hargeisa you can withdraw US dollars from ATMs using international credit and debit cards.
Transport risks
Road travel
Travelling by road in Somalia is dangerous and you should get advice from a security firm or a sponsoring organisation. Government forces, militias and other armed groups operate checkpoints on roads across Somalia. Exercise extreme caution when passing checkpoints and closely follow the instructions given by police and military personnel.
Sea travel
There is still a significant risk of piracy in the Gulf of Aden and Indian Ocean, where piracy has been reduced but not fully prevented. Pirates can attack up to 1,000 nautical miles from the Somali coast or more. The threat assessment of the combined international naval counter-piracy forces is that sailing yachts should not enter the designated high-risk area, due to the risk of hijacking. 
Maritime crime and security incidents are also a risk in the Southern Red Sea area.
Extreme weather and natural disasters
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards.
Flooding
The main rainy season in Somalia takes place between April and June, followed by lesser rains in October and November.
Localised flooding may prevent you from getting to some parts of Somalia, including Somaliland.
Flooding increases humanitarian need by forcing people to move or cutting them off from possible support. The end of 2023 saw widespread flooding in south-western Somalia, leading to significant internal displacement and disruption to travel.
