This page gives you guidance on staying in Somalia as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Somalia to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Somalia
For information on entering Somalia, see Entry requirements.
The Somali authorities at national and local level have put in place a range of measures to control the spread of COVID-19. In Mogadishu, these include a night-time curfew, as well as measures relating to public gatherings, schools and mosques.
The authorities in Somaliland have also announced additional measures including closing schools and banning large gatherings. Additional Ramadan prayers in mosques have been cancelled and authorities are advising the public to observe all prayers at home.
Restrictions have also been introduced on the use of public transport within and between cities. The authorities have stated that failure to comply with these measures may result in penalties including fines or arrest.
You should monitor local media for further updates and follow the advice of the local authorities.
Health
For contact details for English speaking doctors, visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Somalia.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
Consular support is severely limited in Somalia. The British Embassy in Mogadishu does not provide consular services. If you’re in Somalia (excluding Somaliland) and need urgent help from the UK government, contact the British High Commission in Nairobi. If you’re in Somaliland, you should contact the British Embassy in Addis Ababa. If you’re in the UK and are concerned about a British national in Somalia (including Somaliland), call the FCO on 020 7008 1500.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
