Based on the current assessment of COVID-19 risks, the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) advises against all but essential travel to:
the whole of Somalia, including Somaliland.
In addition and for security reasons the FCDO advises against all travel to:
Somalia, including Somaliland, except the cities of Hargeisa and Berbera.
For security reasons the FCDO advises against all but essential travel to:
the cities of Hargeisa and Berbera
From 19 March, visitors who have been in or transited through Somalia (including Somaliland) in the previous 10 days cannot enter the UK. British and Irish nationals, and third country nationals with residence rights in the UK arriving in England from Somalia will be required to quarantine in a hotel. Different requirements apply for arrivals into Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland.
From 1 January onwards, those with residence rights includes: holders of Indefinite Leave to Remain; holders of existing leave to enter or remain (i.e those with biometric Residence permits) or an entry clearance/visa that grants such leave e.g. students, workers, etc (excluding visit visas); holders of EU Settlement Scheme (“EUSS”) leave; those who have rights of entry under the Withdrawal Agreements (including returning residents with a right of residence under the EEA Regulations and EEA frontier workers); family members of EEA nationals with rights under the Withdrawal Agreement.
Any British nationals in areas of Somalia to which the FCDO advise against all travel should leave. Any British nationals in Hargeisa or Berbera whose travel is not essential should leave.
If you visit Hargeisa or Berbera, exercise a heightened level of vigilance and take care in public places where people gather. Monitor local and international media to avoid any demonstration or disturbance taking place. Leave any area of unrest quickly and don’t attempt to watch or photograph it.
On 19 February, and again on 25 and 26 April, armed clashes involving security forces took place in Mogadishu. The situation remains volatile; you should exercise extreme caution and stay away from any demonstrations, as they may become violent.
Travel to Somalia (excluding Somaliland) is subject to entry restrictions
COVID-19 tests have been required for incoming passengers and you will need to self-isolate for 14 days after arrival.
Travel to Somaliland is subject to entry restrictions
If you’re arriving into Somaliland by air then you will not need to quarantine if you have evidence of a negative COVID-19 test taken within 96 hours (4 days) of arrival
If you don’t have this evidence then you may have to spend 14 days in quarantine at your own expense in a government appointed facility
See Entry requirements for more information before you plan to travel.
Preparing for your return journey to the UK
If you’re returning to the UK from overseas, you must follow the rules for entering the UK, including quarantine and testing requirements.
If your return journey to the UK transits another country, you should check whether it is subject to a travel ban or any other additional requirements. If so, contact your travel provider.
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
If you’re planning travel to Somalia , find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCDO’s guidance on foreign travel insurance.
For information about COVID-19 vaccines, see the Coronavirus page.
Terrorists are very likely to try to carry out attacks in Somalia. There is a high threat of kidnap throughout the country. Terrorist groups have made threats against westerners and those working for western organisations. There is a constant threat of terrorist attack in Mogadishu and terrorists continue to plan attacks against westerners in the rest of Somalia, including Somaliland. Terrorist attacks could be indiscriminate, including in crowded places, high-profile events, events involving government officials and in places visited by foreigners. Due to their use by government officials, hotels are considered legitimate targets by terrorist groups. See Terrorism
There is a high threat of maritime crime in the territorial and international waters off Somalia and attack remains a significant threat in the Gulf of Aden and Indian Ocean. See Sea travel
Conflict and environmental problems such as drought and flooding have displaced hundreds of thousands of people, in all areas of the country. See Local travel
Land borders with countries neighbouring Somalia may close at short notice. You should check with local authorities before travelling to the border. You should also monitor Travel Advice for Ethiopia, Kenya or Djibouti. You should not cross the border without the correct documents.
Consular support is severely limited in Somalia. The British Embassy in Mogadishu does not provide consular services. If you’re in Somalia (excluding Somaliland) and need urgent help from the UK government (eg if you’ve been arrested or you’re concerned about forced marriage), contact the British High Commission in Nairobi. If you’re in Somaliland, you should contact the British Embassy in Addis Ababa. If you’re in the UK and are concerned about a British national in Somalia (including Somaliland), call the FCDO on 020 7008 5000.
