Terrorists are very likely to try to carry out attacks in Somalia, including kidnapping. There’s a high threat to western, including British, interests in Somalia, including Somaliland. Attacks could be indiscriminate, including in crowded places, high-profile events, events involving government officials and in places visited by foreigners, such as hotels and restaurants
Al Shabaab, a proscribed terrorist group, and other groups opposed to the Somali government continue to carry out attacks in and around Mogadishu on an almost daily basis. Terrorist groups operating in Somalia have made threats against westerners and those working for western organisations in Somalia, including Somaliland. There is ongoing serious violence between opposing factions. Attacks increased in the run up to the presidential and parliamentary electoral process in February 2017 and al-Shabaab has since publicly pledged to escalate attacks against the new government.
Attacks of varying sizes are a very frequent occurrence in Somalia. Attacks have previously been targeted at government officials and institutions, hotels, restaurants and public transport including the international airport. Further attacks could occur at any time. Civilians of all ages have been killed in fighting, which often involves heavy weapons.
Methods of attack have included armed assaults, suicide bombings, car bombings, explosions, gun attacks, mortar attacks, improvised explosive devices and the bombing of a commercial aircraft.
Major attacks during 2017 have included:
4 October 2017 a large truck bomb exploded in central Mogadishu (Hodan District) near the Safari Hotel. This was Somalia’s deadliest ever terror attack with over 300 killed and hundreds more injured.
28 September 2017 - a vehicle-borne IED attack in the Hamarweyne District, killing 15 people
18 April 2017 – a mortar attack on the Wardhigley and Howlwadaag areas of Mogadishu, killing five people
9 April 2017 – a car-bomb exploded near the Ministry of Defence headquarters killing 15 people.
19 February 2017 – a vehicle-borne IED attack at a busy market in the Madina district of Mogadishu killing at least 40 people
27 January 2017 – al-Al Shabaab fighters overran a Kenyan Defence Forces camp in Kulbiyow, near the Kenyan border, killing at least 50 people.
2 January 2017 – an attack on the Peace hotel near Mogadishu International Airport, using two car bombs and followed by armed attackers, killing at least 20 people
There have been multiple attacks against hotels throughout Somalia including Mogadishu. Due to their use by government officials, hotels are considered legitimate targets by terrorist groups.
During 2016 there were frequent and major terrorist attacks on civilians and military personnel across the country, including in Lido Beach, Galkayo and el-Adde in addition to 45 such incidents in the Mogadishu area.
On 2 February 2016 there was an explosion on a Daallo Airlines flight to Djibouti from Mogadishu. Somali authorities have confirmed the incident was caused by an explosive device inside the aircraft which was brought on to the plane at Mogadishu.
There have been no major terrorist attacks in Somaliland since 2008.
There’s a heightened threat of terrorist attack globally against UK interests and British nationals, from groups or individuals motivated by the conflict in Iraq and Syria. You should be vigilant at this time.
Find out more about the global threat from terrorism, how to minimise your risk and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack.
Kidnaps
There is a threat of kidnapping throughout Somalia, including in regions bordering Kenya and Ethiopia, and in Somaliland. Both terrorists and criminal groups, including piracy groups, are involved in hostage-taking. A number of western nationals, including British nationals, have been kidnapped in Somalia over the last 10 years and some have been killed. Those engaged in humanitarian aid work, journalism or business sectors are viewed as legitimate targets. If you’re kidnapped, the reason for your presence is unlikely to serve as a protection or secure your safe release.
The long-standing policy of the British government is not to make substantive concessions to hostage-takers. The British government considers that paying ransoms and releasing prisoners increases the risk of further hostage taking. The Terrorism Act (2000) also makes payments to terrorists illegal.
