!
Warning
FCDO advises against all travel to parts of Somalia.

Your travel insurance could be invalidated if you travel against advice from the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO).
Areas where FCDO advises against travel
Parts of Somalia, including eastern Somaliland  
FCDO advises against all travel to Somalia, including the 3 eastern regions of Somaliland – Togdheer, Sanaag and Sool – and excluding the 3 western regions of Somaliland – Awdal, Maroodijeh and Sahil. This is due to the threat from terrorist groups and continuing violence. If you choose to remain in Somalia, you do so at your own risk. You should have a personal emergency plan that does not rely on the UK government.
Western Somaliland
FCDO advises against all but essential travel to the 3 western regions of Somaliland – Awdal (including Boorama), Maroodijeh (including Hargeisa) and Sahil (including Berbera).
Find out more about why FCDO advises against travel. There has recently been an increase in fighting between al-Shabaab and the Somali Government close to the capital Mogadishu. Please see the Terrorism section for more information.
Support from FCDO
Support from FCDO is severely limited in Somalia, including Somaliland, with no support in person from staff at the British Embassy Mogadishu or the British Office Hargeisa.
If you need urgent help from the UK government, for example if you’ve been arrested or you’re concerned about forced marriage, contact:
the British High Commission Nairobi, Kenya if you are in Somalia, excluding Somaliland
the British Embassy Addis Ababa, Ethiopia if you are in Somaliland
If you’re in the UK and are concerned about a British national in Somalia, including Somaliland, call FCDO on 020 7008 5000.
People of Somali descent, including Somaliland descent
The government of Somalia and the authorities in Somaliland will consider any British national of Somali (including Somaliland) descent to be a dual national. FCDO can offer only limited consular support in these cases. 
Before you travel
No travel can be guaranteed safe. Read all the advice in this guide. You may also find it helpful to: 
see general advice for women travellers
read our guide on disability and travel abroad
see general advice for LGBT+ travellers
read about safety for solo and independent travel
see advice on volunteering and adventure travel abroad
Travel insurance
If you choose to travel, research your destinations and get appropriate travel insurance. Insurance should cover your itinerary, planned activities and expenses in an emergency.
About FCDO travel advice
FCDO provides advice about risks of travel to help you make informed decisions. Find out more about FCDO travel advice.
Get travel advice updates
Sign up to get email notifications when this travel advice is updated.
Follow FCDO:   
travel advice on X
travel advice on Facebook
Travel Aware on Instagram
