Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

Cases of coronavirus (COVID-19) have been confirmed in Japan, including in-country transmission. It may cause more severe symptoms in older people, and those with pre-existing medical conditions.
Entry and borders
On 1 April the Japanese government announced that – for arrivals from 00:00 on 3 April – it will deny entry to Japan for any non-Japanese nationals who have been to the UK or this list of countries in the last 14 days, other than in exceptional circumstances.
These measures also apply to people who live in Japan but are temporarily out of the country. Exceptions are restricted to those who left Japan on or before 2 April with re-entry permission and who are either holders of permanent residency permits (eijusha); or long-term residence permits (teijusha); or spouses or children of permanent residents (eijusha no haigusha-to) or direct relatives of Japanese nationals. In addition, those who leave Japan on or after 3 April will in principle be denied entry even in the above cases.
To confirm eligibility, before travelling you should consult with the consular section of your nearest Japanese Embassy if you are abroad, or the Immigration Services Agency if you are in Japan. The Japanese Embassy in London can be contacted between 09:30-16:30 Mon-Fri on 020 7465 6565. Japan’s Immigration Services Agency can be contacted on +81 570 013 904 or +81 357 967 112.
All passengers who arrive in Japan may be required to undergo a coronavirus screening test (PCR) and are required to self-isolate for 14 days on arrival at a designated location (such as a hotel or your own home) and to avoid using public transport. This request will remain in place until at least the end of April.
These measures do not apply to passengers who are transiting through the same airport and do not go through immigration. If you are transiting using different airports you will need a transit permit on arrival. To get one you will be required to demonstrate that you have not come from a country on the banned list, that you have timely onward travel plans and show that you will not use public transport to move between airports; this includes taxis. You should comply with any additional screening measures put in place by the authorities. You should also check the latest entry requirements for your destination.
Local measures
On 7 April, the government of Japan declared a State of Emergency in Tokyo, Kanagawa, Saitama, Chiba, Osaka, Hyogo and Fukuoka prefectures. The State of Emergency will last until 6 May. Aichi and Kyoto prefectures have made similar announcements, with other prefectures advising caution. You should follow the instructions of your local authority.
Emergency measures will vary by locality, but are likely to include requests or directives for residents to stay at home, work from home, and avoid areas where infection is more likely. In addition, non-essential businesses may be closed, and emergency medical measures may be taken at short notice. Supermarkets, convenience stores, pharmacies and banks are likely to remain open.
Subject to local guidelines, necessary journeys to purchase food, take exercise, seek medical care or for unavoidable work trips are still possible. Public transport should still operate. You should be prepared to explain to the authorities the reason for your journey and you must have your passport or residence card with you at all times, see Local laws and customs. Those wishing to leave Japan should be able to travel to airports.
The situation is changing rapidly and British nationals in Japan should continue to follow the advice of local authorities.
Visas
Japan has suspended its visa waiver system for anyone travelling on a British Citizen or British National (Overseas) passport until at least the end of April 2020. Japan has also suspended single and multiple entry visas issued by Japanese Embassies and Consulate Generals in the UK prior to 20 March and in many other countries, full list is here. Anyone arriving in Japan without a valid visa will not be able to enter.
These measures do not apply to passengers who are transiting through the same airport and do not go through immigration. If you are transiting using different airports you will need a transit permit on arrival. To get one you will be required to demonstrate that you have not come from a country on the banned list, that you have timely onward travel plans and (if arriving from a country for which Japan has travel restrictions) show that you will not use public transport to move between airports. Those who still wish to travel to Japan can apply for a visa, but this is likely to take more time than usual. Please check with your nearest Japanese Embassy or Consulate General for further details.
These measures do not impact on the ‘Status of Residence’ of British nationals already living in Japan. However, British nationals living in Japan should take note of new measures related to returning to Japan (see ‘Entry and borders’ section above).
If you are already in Japan and your visa has expired or is about to expire during March, April, May or June, Japan’s Immigration Service Agency has introduced a three-month grace period for renewing an expired visa without penalty. This includes short-term tourist visas. The three-month period starts from the date a visa expires. More information can be found here. You may also wish to contact Japan’s Immigration Services Agency on +81 570 013 904 or +81 357 967 112.
Further information
We have updated our Living in Japan guide to include advice on coronavirus for British nationals in Japan.
The Japan National Tourism Organisation has a 24 hour hotline (+81 50 3816-2787) which provides support and advice for visitors in Japan including on coronavirus. It has also published relevant information and further external links (in English) including a guide to accessing medical facilities in Japan
From 10 April, the Japan Medical Association will operate a multilingual hotline for foreign nationals who need advice related to coronavirus. This will operate during 10am and 5pm, and can be called on 03-6233-9266.
Many prefectures have published information on local services published information on local services (some in English).
British nationals living in Japan who have symptoms may wish to check the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare website for guidance on what to do next.
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available on the TravelHealthPro website.
The Voice of America radio service in Japan (102 FM) also provides regular updates in English.
The Japanese Government has advised Japanese citizens to stop travelling to the UK. Details are available in Japanese on Japan’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs website.
