At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Coronavirus
There is an ongoing outbreak of coronavirus (COVID-19) in Japan, including in-country transmission. It may cause more severe symptoms in older people, and those with pre-existing medical conditions.
From 0001 on 21 March, all passengers arriving in Japan from the UK, as well as countries listed below, are required to self-isolate for 14 days on arrival at a designated location (such as a hotel or your own home) and to avoid using public transport. These measures do not apply to passengers who are transiting and do not go through immigration. You should comply with any additional screening measures put in place by the authorities. You should also check the latest entry requirements for your destination.
Andorra, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Croatia, Czech Republic, Cyprus, Denmark, Egypt, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Italy, Iran, Ireland, Latvia, Lichtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Monaco, the Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, San Marino, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, and the Vatican. These measures already apply to those arriving from China and the Republic of Korea.
As a preventative measure against the spread of coronavirus, the Government of Japan has announced that, unless there are exceptional circumstances, foreign nationals who have visited the following countries or regions within 14 days of arrival in Japan are not permitted to enter:
• China: Hubei or Zhejiang provinces
• South Korea: The city of Daegu or the neighbouring county of Cheongo; and the cities of Gyeongsan, Andong, Yeoncheo, and counties of Chilgok, Uiseong, Seongju or Gunwi in North Gyeongsang Province.
• Iceland
• Iran: Qom Province, Tehran Province, Gilan Province, Alborz Province, Isfahan Province, Qazvin Province, Golestan Province, Semnan Province, Mazandaran Province, Markazi Province, Lorestan Province.
• Italy: Veneto, Emilia Romagna, Piemonte, Marche, Lombardy, Valle d’Aosta, Trentino-Alto Alge, Friuli-Venezia Giulia, Liguria
• San Marino
• Spain: Navarra, Basque, Madrid, La Rioja
• Switzerland: Ticino, Basel Stadt
In addition, those who hold a Chinese passport issued by Hubei or Zhejiang provinces are not permitted to enter Japan. Passenger flights from China and the Republic of Korea have been asked to land at Narita and Kansai international airports, and passenger ferry services to stop operating. Visas issued by the Japanese authorities in China and Korea for future travel to Japan have been cancelled, and visa exemptions for travellers from the Republic of Korea, Hong Kong and Macao have been stopped.
There are enhanced quarantine procedures at entry points to Japan such as airports and ports. The authorities may carry out extended health checks on arrival including compulsory hospitalisation. You should comply with any additional screening measures by the authorities if asked to go through extra checks.
The majority of primary and secondary schools remain closed until the end of regular spring holidays in early April. The Government of Japan has requested that organisers consider postponing or cancelling large-scale cultural and sporting events until 19 March, when a further assessment will be made.
The northern island of Hokkaido issued a ‘declaration of state of emergency on 28 February lasting until 19 March, asking residents to refrain from going out, particularly at weekends. British nationals in Japan should continue to follow the advice of local authorities.
The Japan National Tourism Organisation has a 24 hour hotline (+81 50 3816-2787) which provides support and advice for visitors in Japan including on coronavirus. It also has relevant information and further external links on its website (English). British nationals living in Japan who have symptoms may wish to check the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare website for guidance on what to do next. Local hotline contact details are also available on this website. British nationals in Japan should continue to follow the advice of local authorities.
Medication
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
You may also want to check the Japanese Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare webpages on advice if you bring medicine into Japan, a general Q&A as well as a list of banned items.
Medical treatment
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 119 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
Medical facilities are good, but the cost of treatment is high. Hospitals and clinics are well equipped and staff highly trained. There are very few British doctors practising in Japan, but some Japanese doctors may speak English. You will be expected to pay the whole cost of any treatment you receive and there have been cases where treatment has been delayed whilst medical facilities check the legitimacy of the insurance. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance that covers pre-existing conditions and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation.
Residents in Japan will be required to enrol in either Employee or National Health Insurance.
