Japan is vulnerable to natural disasters because of its climate and topography.
You should make yourself familiar with local procedures and preparations for natural disasters. You can also stay up to date with our travel advice for Japan by subscribing to our email alert service to be notified of future updates, and by following our Twitter and Facebook channels.
There are social media tools and smartphone apps available that provide live information during a crisis and information on how to stay safe in a natural disaster in Japan. Examples in English include the JNTO Twitter Account and NHK World App (Japanese government emergency alerts).
As part of your own contingency plans, you should make sure you have easy access to your passport and other important documents such as nationality documents and birth and marriage certificates, as well as any essential medication. You can read our crisis overseas page for further information and advice, including sections on what you can do to prepare effectively, what you should do in the event of a crisis abroad, and how we can help you. You can also find specific information on how to prepare for and react to a natural disaster in Japan in the Living in Japan guide.
Earthquakes and tsunamis
As Japan is in a major earthquake zone you should familiarise yourself with safety procedures in the event of an earthquake or tsunami, and take note of instructions in hotel rooms, at train stations and on your local prefectural website. Information on earthquakes and any impact on towns and cities in Japan, including tsunami warnings, are published by the Japan Meteorological Agency.
To learn more about what to do before, during and after an earthquake check the safety tips from the Japan National Tourism Agency or from the Tokyo international communication committee.
Volcanoes
There are several active volcanoes in Japan. You should monitor local media reports and follow the advice of local authorities. Check latest volcano warnings on the website of the Japanese Meteorological Agency.
Tropical cyclones
The tropical cyclone (typhoon) season runs from June to December with most activity between July and September. Southern parts of the country are particularly at risk. You should monitor the progress of approaching storms on the website of the Japan Meteorological Agency and via NHK news. Follow the advice of the local authorities and emergency services, including any evacuation orders.
Typhoons that hit Japan are often accompanied by damaging high tides. People living in coastal areas are particularly at risk. Landslides and flooding can occur anywhere. The dangers increase when an earthquake occurs shortly after a typhoon has saturated an area.
See our tropical cyclones page, the Japan National Tourism Agency or the Tokyo international communication committee websites for information and advice about what to do if you’re caught up in a storm.
