Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

There remain commercial options to return to the UK from Japan.
If you live in the UK and are currently visiting Japan, you are strongly advised to return now by commercial means. Do not run the risk of getting stranded.
UK special charter flights will only operate for priority countries where commercial flights are not possible. You should not assume that these flights will become available in countries where commercial routes are operating. Please do not contact the contracted travel management company if no flight is advertised here.
See more information and advice about staying where you are if you cannot return to the UK.
Flights
Japan Airlines (daily) and All Nippon Airways (three times a week) are operating direct flights from Tokyo Haneda airport to London Heathrow. Please contact them to make a booking.
British Airways has now suspended its direct flights between Japan and the UK until further notice. If you have flights booked with BA, please contact them to make alternative arrangements to return home.
There are also a limited number of indirect flights to the UK transiting via a third country. As of 9 April, those include:
Qatar Airways (daily) from Tokyo Narita.
Lufthansa (three times a week) from Tokyo Haneda. Telephone: +81 3 4333 7656
KLM (twice a week) from Tokyo Narita. Telephone: +81 3 5767 4149
Air France (twice a week) from Tokyo Narita. Telephone: +81 3 5767 4143
Korean Air (twice a week) from Tokyo Narita. Telephone: +81 6 6264 3311
We advise you to continue to contact your airline or travel agent to check availability and re-book your flight if necessary. Further suspensions or cancellations remain possible.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Travelling to the airport
There is currently a State of Emergency in parts of Japan, including Tokyo and Osaka. However there are no restrictions on travelling to either Tokyo Narita or Tokyo Haneda airports, and public transport continues to operate.
Arrival in the UK
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Further information
The British Embassy is issuing regular updates on Twitter and Facebook with the latest available information on departure options from Japan.
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
