

This guide also has safety advice for regions of Japan.
Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Japan
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Japan, attacks cannot be ruled out.
Political situation
Civil disturbance and violent demonstrations are rare in Japan. Occasionally, there are pro-nationalist demonstrations that express hostility towards foreign countries. If you become aware of protests, leave the area immediately.
Japan and the Korean Peninsula
The level of tension and security situation in the Korean Peninsula can change with little notice. Tensions can rise after missile tests by North Korea and during the regular South Korea-US military exercises, which take place throughout the year.
North Korea frequently launches missiles towards Japan as part of missile testing, and is likely to continue doing so.
You should follow the advice of local authorities and check NHK World for the latest information. See advice on missile alerts from the Japanese government.
See also travel advice for South Korea.
Crime
Take the same precautions you would at home and get local advice on areas where you might need to be more alert.
Tokyo’s entertainment districts carry a higher risk of crime, particularly at night in and around clubs and bars. Foreign nationals have been targeted for extortion, robbery, assault and sexual assault.
Protecting your belongings
Be aware of your surroundings and keep your belongings in sight when travelling. Place valuables in a secure place such as a hotel safe when you can.
Rape and sexual assault
Rape and sexual assault are rare but can happen. Japanese law puts a high burden of proof on victims to demonstrate sexual relations were not consensual and committed through assault, intimidation or force.
Female passengers travelling on commuter trains have experienced inappropriate behaviour. This includes touching and upskirting – taking photos or videos from below when women walk or stand nearby. Police advise you should shout at the perpetrator to attract attention and ask a fellow passenger to call train or station staff.
Drink spiking and credit card fraud
There is a risk of drink spiking and credit card fraud. Victims have described waking up with no memory of what happened and discovering large amounts of money billed to their credit card. Risks are higher in all entertainment and nightlife districts across Japan. In particular, the Japanese police have identified the following areas in Tokyo as high-risk zones:
Kabukicho
Roppongi
Shibuya
Ikebukuro
You can reduce the risk of spiking by:
not accepting drinks from strangers
not leaving drinks unattended or asking a trusted friend to keep an eye on your unfinished drink
Card fraudsters may skim or clone bank cards when you pay for food or drink. You may need a police report before your credit card company will consider processing a fraud claim.
Illegal drugs 
Japan has strict laws around drug use. If the police find an illegal substance in your bloodstream, you may be charged, regardless of whether you consented or were aware of taking the drugs. If you refuse to take a test if asked to by the police, you could be arrested and detained for ‘obstructing police duties’.   
If you take blood tests at medical institutions, they are usually obliged to report to the police if they detect any illegal substances.
Disputes over bar bills
British nationals have been arrested at clubs and bars following disputes with staff and doorpersons over excessive bar bills. These disputes are often seen in the high risk areas outlined above. Ensure you see a menu with prices before you enter a bar or restaurant. Keep track of what you order and confirm the price of admission to clubs on entry.
Prostitution and street touts
Prostitution and street touts are illegal but commonplace, especially in the high risk areas outlined above. Do not accompany street touts to bars or clubs. Street touts often encourage people to enter an establishment by misrepresenting the services on offer. You may incur an entry charge so do not enter on the promise of a free drink or to have a look, as you may not be free to leave.
Laws and cultural differences
Personal ID
You must always carry your passport or Japanese residence card with you. The police can arrest you if you cannot show proof of your visa or residence status.
Alcohol bans
In general, drinking alcohol in public places is not illegal. However, there are bans on drinking alcohol in specific areas on certain days, for example New Year’s Eve.
Smoking in public places    
Smoking is illegal on the streets of Tokyo and some other cities. Smoke only in designated areas.
Illegal drugs and prison sentences
There is zero tolerance of drug crime and the penalties are severe. British nationals have been arrested and detained for receiving small quantities through the post or if they test positive when the police raid clubs or bars. British nationals convicted of drug trafficking have received sentences ranging from 6 to 17 years and fines of 3 to 4 million yen. Prisoners in Japan are assigned labour or factory work as part of their sentences.
LGBT+ travellers   
Same-sex sexual activity is not illegal, but Japanese law does not protect against discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation. Same-sex marriages are not recognised, but some local authorities issue certificates of recognition that can be used for civil issues, such as hospital visitation rights.
Nichome in Tokyo and Doyamacho in Osaka are well-known LGBT+ areas.
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Medication bans
It is illegal to possess or use some common prescription and over-the-counter medicines under Japan’s strictly enforced law on anti-stimulant drugs. Ignorance of the law does not count as a defence. See Health.
Custody disputes  
Japanese family law is very different from UK law. Joint custody of a child after divorce is not a legal option, and access for a non-custodial parent is extremely difficult, especially if you live outside of Japan. Legal custody disputes can be lengthy and expensive, and rulings to return a child or to secure access to a child are often not enforced. See child abduction, custody and parental rights in Japan.
Public behaviour
Most Japanese people are welcoming and friendly, but can be reserved. Loud, boisterous behaviour may receive negative attention. Showing affection in public is less common than in the UK. 
Tattoos
Tattoos have a historical association with organised crime in Japan. While acceptance is increasing, some public facilities do not admit people with tattoos – for example, public swimming pools, hot springs, beaches and some gyms. Other establishments request you cover tattoos while using the facilities.  
Transport risks
Road travel
If you’re planning to drive in Japan, see information on driving abroad and check the rules of the road in the Japan Automobile Federation driving guide.
You’ll need the 1949 version of the international driving permit (IDP) plus your UK driving licence and insurance documents with you in the car. You could be arrested and fined for driving without the correct documents.
You cannot buy an IDP outside the UK, so get one before you travel. You can use an IDP for one year, regardless of its expiry date. See information on driving and the IDP from the Tokyo police.
If you plan to stay longer than one year, see how to apply for a Japanese driving licence.
Hire car companies often have stricter requirements for their customers, such as a year of driving experience and a minimum age.
There are 2 types of driving insurance available in Japan: compulsory insurance (‘jibaisekihoken’) and voluntary insurance (‘nin’i no jidoshahoken’). The compulsory insurance on its own may be insufficient in cases of personal liability.
Drink-driving is a serious offence in Japan, and the legal limit of alcohol in your system is about a third of the UK limit. If you are found to be over the limit, you may get a fine and possible imprisonment. There are also penalties for allowing someone to drink and drive. The passenger could face arrest if the police suspect they were aware of the driver’s alcohol consumption.
Driving standards
Roads are well maintained, and driving is on the left. Watch out for:
pedestrians crossing roads at green lights, especially at junctions
cyclists riding on the wrong side of the road and without lights at night
other drivers braking suddenly
Extreme weather and natural disasters
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to natural disasters in Japan.
Tropical cyclones
In Japan the tropical cyclone (typhoon) season is between June and December, peaking between July and September. The highest risk is in southern parts of the country. Monitor any approaching storms using Japan Meteorological Agency forecasts. Follow the advice of the local authorities and emergency services, including any evacuation orders.
Tropical cyclones in Japan often come with damaging high tides, increasing the risk of landslides and flooding. The dangers increase when an earthquake occurs shortly after a tropical cyclone has saturated an area.
See weather safety tips from the Japan National Tourism Agency.
Earthquakes and tsunamis
Japan is in a major earthquake zone. Take note of instructions in hotel rooms and at train stations. Check the safety procedures on your local prefectural website.
Monitor tsunami warnings and earthquake information from the Japan Meteorological Agency.
See earthquake safety tips from the Japan National Tourism Agency. 
Volcanic eruptions
There are several active volcanoes in Japan. Monitor local media reports and follow the advice of local authorities. Check for volcano warnings from the Japanese Meteorological Agency. See volcano safety tips from the Japan National Tourism Agency.
