Coronavirus guidance is being updated.
Read what you can and cannot do

This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Japan as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Japan to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Japan
A State of Emergency is in place in eight prefectures (Tokyo, Kanagawa, Chiba, Saitama, Osaka, Kyoto, Kobe, and Hokkaido) until 31 May. You should follow the instructions of your local authority.
For prefectures under the State of Emergency measures will vary by locality, and may be gradually lifted in the coming weeks. Current measures include requests or directives for residents to stay at home, work from home, and avoid areas where infection is more likely. You should avoid unnecessary journeys from affected prefectures to other regions. In addition, non-essential businesses may be closed, and emergency medical measures may be taken at short notice. Supermarkets, convenience stores, pharmacies and banks are likely to remain open.
Subject to local guidelines, necessary journeys to purchase food, take exercise, seek medical care or for unavoidable work trips are still possible. Public transport should still operate. You should be prepared to explain to the authorities the reason for your journey and you must have your passport or residence card with you at all times. Those wishing to leave Japan should be able to travel to airports.
For prefectures where the State of Emergency has been lifted, measures encouraging social distancing, avoiding unnecessary travel and closed spaces, and exercising other basic precautions may remain in place. Controls may also be strengthened in the event of renewed outbreaks.
Local authorities may also put in place special measures for natural disaster response, including additional evacuation locations and medical procedures. See Natural disasters for more information on general disaster preparedness in Japan.
The situation is changing rapidly. You should continue to follow the advice of local authorities.
For information on entering Japan, see Entry requirements
Visas
If you are already in Japan and your visa has expired or due to expire before the end of July 2020, Japan’s Immigration Service Agency has introduced a three-month grace period for renewing an expired visa without penalty. This includes short-term tourist visas, subject to proof that you were not able to easily leave Japan. The three-month period starts from the date the visa expires – you must visit an immigration centre to renew your visa during this time. You will need to present a valid visa when leaving Japan.
You may wish to contact Japan’s Immigration Services Agency on +81 570 013 904 or +81 357 967 112 and check what evidence you will need to provide when applying for your extension.
Health
For contact details of English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Japan.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
The Japan National Tourism Organisation has a 24 hour hotline (+81 50 3816-2787) which provides support and advice for visitors in Japan including on coronavirus. It has also published relevant information and further external links (in English) including a guide to accessing medical facilities in Japan
The Japan Medical Association has a multilingual hotline (10am to 5pm) for foreign nationals who need advice related to coronavirus. The hotline number is +81 3-6233-9266. See more information on other multilingual coronavirus hotlines
Many prefectures have published information on local services (some in English)
Tokyo has established a general purpose hotline (9am to 5pm) for foreign residents, providing advice on non-medical coronavirus-related issues, including some interpretation services. The hotline number is +81 120-296-004
If you’re living in Japan, you can also check the Living in Japan guide from the British Embassy
British nationals living in Japan who have symptoms may wish to check the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare website for guidance on what to do next
The Voice of America radio service in Japan (102 FM) also provides regular updates in English
If you need urgent consular assistance, you should contact your local British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephones numbers are available 24/7.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
