Travel to Japan is subject to entry restrictions
Short-term visitors who have been in the UK and other select countries in the last 14 days are currently unable to enter Japan, unless in exceptional circumstances.
From 25 December for an initial period of one week, new flight bookings from the UK will not be possible. Current flight reservations should still be valid - you should check with your airline.
From 24 December for travel from the United Kingdom, and from 28 December for travel from elsewhere, new entry to Japan by foreign nationals will not be permitted. This also applies to foreign nationals in possession of visas issued since 1 October under the previous Global Residence Track
Residents of Japan returning to Japan may re-enter, but those on the Short-Term Business Trips scheme will no longer be exempted from quarantine requirements (from 24 December for UK trips and from 28 December for trips to all other countries).
Japan has also suspended its visa waiver system for anyone travelling on a British passport. Single and multiple entry visas issued prior to 20 March also remain suspended.
Non-Japanese nationals who arrive in Japan will be required to undergo a coronavirus screening test and are required to self-isolate for 14 days on arrival at a designated location (such as a hotel or your own home) and avoid using public transport. You will also need to provide written evidence of a negative COVID-19 test result conducted within 72 hours of your flight departure time, and will be asked to install a COVID-19 tracking app if arriving from the UK.
If you are coming from the UK, you will also be required to spend the first 3 days of your self-isolation in a government-provided facility, with a further screening test on the third day. You will be asked to install a COVID-19 tracking app if arriving from the UK.
See Entry requirements for more information before you plan to travel.
Preparing for your return journey to the UK
If you’re returning to the UK from overseas, you will need to:
provide your journey and contact details before you travel
check if you need to self-isolate on your return
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
If you’re planning travel to Japan, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) guidance on foreign travel insurance.
330,000 British nationals visited Japan in 2018. Most visits are trouble free.
Follow the British Embassy Tokyo on Facebook and Twitter for updates and more information about Japan.
There’s a continuous risk of earthquakes, volcanic eruptions and tsunamis throughout Japan. Latest warnings and advisories are published on the Japan Meteorological Agency website. See Natural disasters
On 21 April 2018, North Korea announced a halt to nuclear and intercontinental ballistic missile testing. However, the level of tension on the Korean peninsula can change with little notice, and there is a risk of a further increase in regional tensions which may affect Japan. You should keep in touch with news broadcasts, follow the advice of the local authorities (Cabinet Secretariat Civil Protection Portal Site) and keep up to date with this travel advice.
For updates on political events on the Korean peninsula which could affect travellers to Japan, you should read FCDO travel advice for South Korea.
The Japanese authorities continue to maintain some exclusion zones around the Fukushima Dai-ichi nuclear facility. Travel through these zones on some designated trunk roads is allowed. Follow local signs and instructions while travelling in this area. See Fukushima
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Japan, attacks can not be ruled out. See Terrorism
To contact the emergency services call 110 (police) or 119 (fire and ambulance). Calls are free of charge from any phone, including pay phones.
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.
