Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Sudan on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
You should contact local authorities for information on testing facilities (only available in Arabic).
International travel
Flights to and from most regional countries now operate but some commercial options remain unpredictable and scheduled flights have been cancelled at short notice since 25 October 2021. Check with your airline or travel company for the latest information and conditions of carriage.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Sudan.
Returning to the UK
Travelling from and returning to the UK
Check what you must do to travel abroad and return to England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
If you plan to pass through another country to return to the UK, check the travel advice for the country you’re transiting.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Sudan
The Sudanese authorities have removed all national COVID-19 restrictions. There remains the possibility of curfews, travel restrictions or other measures being re-introduced at short notice. You should comply with all local COVID-19 restrictions imposed by the Sudanese authorities.
Accommodation
Hotels remain open but may offer limited services.
Public places and services
Many cafes, restaurants and markets continue to operate.
Mosques and other places of worship may be open to the public with social distancing and other preventive measures in place.
Healthcare
For contact details for English speaking doctors, if you are running low on medication or require emergency medical treatment, you should visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Sudan.
If you think you have COVID-19 symptoms, you should call 9090 or 221 for further guidance.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Sudan
We will update this page when the Government of Sudan announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Sudanese national vaccination programme started in March 2021 using the AstraZeneca vaccine, and vaccination centres are now administering the Sinopharm, Pfizer-BioNTech and Jansen (Johnson & Johnson) vaccines. British nationals resident in Sudan are eligible for vaccination if they choose to join the programme. The Sudanese Ministry of Health rolled out a vaccination programme for all nationalities over 60 years old, which was subsequently extended to include all those over 18 years old presenting either a passport or national ID. British nationals in Sudan can find out more about the local vaccine programme as publicised on the Sudanese Ministry of Health website, where there is a section marked “Foreigners”.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in Sudan, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Help and support
The British Embassy continues to carry out essential work and we continue to offer consular services online and by telephone 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. If you need assistance, call + 249 (0) 156 77 5500 / +44 (0)1908 516666. When calling, you may hear a message stating that our offices are closed. If so, stay on the line and select the option for ‘calling about an emergency involving a British national’ to speak to an officer.
Consular support is severely limited in parts of Sudan where the FCDO has existing advice against all travel and all but essential travel. The British Embassy no longer registers British nationals in Sudan and the capacity of the British Embassy to help in times of crisis may be limited.
If you are vulnerable with health issues, an older person, or will be travelling with young children, you can call +249 156 77 55 00 and follow the options for consular assistance.
If you need further information about entry requirements, contact the local immigration authorities or the nearest Sudanese Embassy.
Further information
Sign up for travel advice alerts and the British Embassy Facebook and Twitter pages for updates.
