The information on this page covers the most common types of travel and reflects the UK government’s understanding of the rules currently in place. Unless otherwise stated, this information is for travellers using a full ‘British Citizen’ passport.
The authorities in the country or territory you’re travelling to are responsible for setting and enforcing the rules for entry. If you’re unclear about any aspect of the entry requirements, or you need further reassurance, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
You should also consider checking with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Entry rules in response to Coronavirus
Entry to Sudan
The Sudanese authorities have closed all external borders. It is no longer possible to enter Sudan by road, sea or air except in limited circumstances: Cargo and humanitarian flights are exempted but crew must observe strict guidelines and Emirates currently offers limited flights from Khartoum. There are limited travel exceptions for Sudanese nationals and international officials.
On 16 March 2020, the Sudanese Civil Aviation Authority closed all airports to regular international commercial passenger airlines.
Entry into Sudan is prohibited except for Sudanese nationals and foreign nationals with valid residency and prior permission from the Sudanese authorities.
Foreign national officials without valid residency may apply for prior permission to enter Sudan from the Sudanese authorities through their international organisation.
If you’re eligible for entry, you will need to self-isolate in accordance with the Sudanese conditions of entry.
Data collection
All arrivals must provide details of their original place of travel, transit and final destination, including the address of self-isolation and their contact details.
Testing on departure
The Sudanese Civil Aviation authorities require that you undergo a temperature check before entering the airport. Some airlines have strict rules on face coverings and gloves before you may board. You should check the conditions set out by your airline.
Regular Entry Requirements
Visas
British nationals need a visa to visit Sudan. Apply before you travel via the Sudanese Embassy in London.
You should register with the Aliens Department at the Ministry of Interior within 3 days of your arrival in the country. You will need 2 passport size photos. The fee is the Sudanese Pound equivalent of around £35. If you don’t register within 3 days of arrival, you may be fined. Some of the larger hotels will do this for you but you should ask when you check-in.
Visitors to Sudan on a single entry visa need to get an exit visa to leave the country, though this is not always enforced. Exit visas can be processed at the airport. If requested, you should be ready to show proof of your sponsor and pay the exit visa fee of 50 US dollars.
Most foreign residents, including British nationals, also need an exit permit. You are advised to check the details with your sponsor, ideally before your arrival, and to ensure that you understand and are happy with the process. You should also be aware that this requirement could make it difficult for you to leave the country at short notice, should the need arise.
Children under 18
In addition to a visa, children under 18 must have their father’s consent to enter and exit Sudan. Children travelling without their father will need a letter clearly providing consent for the child to enter and exit Sudan. The letter should be stamped at the Sudanese Embassy before travel.
Where the father is absent or deceased, mothers or guardians should get a court order which clearly shows that the mother or guardian has sole custodial rights for the children. Where the parents are divorced, this should be accompanied by divorce documents. Where the father is deceased, this should be accompanied by a death certificate. Contact the Sudanese Embassy in London for more information.
Previous travel to Israel
If your passport has an Israeli visa or Israeli entry/exit stamps you will not be allowed to enter Sudan.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
Passport validity
Your passport should be valid for a minimum period of 6 months from the date of entry into Sudan.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are not valid for entry into or transit through the Republic of Sudan. However, ETDs are accepted for exit from the country.
