If you have a health condition, or you are pregnant, you may need specialist healthcare abroad. Check whether your destination country can provide the healthcare you may need and ensure you have appropriate travel insurance for unexpected medical evacuation or local treatment.
See the Coronavirus travel health and Healthcare sections in the Coronavirus page for COVID-19 health information.
At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist are available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Other health risks
Sudan’s Ministry of Health has announced an outbreak of vaccine-derived poliovirus (cVDPV). Cases have been reported in the following States: Blue Nile, Gezira, Red Sea, West Darfur and East Darfur. Further information on this outbreak is available on the TravelHealthPro website as well as vaccination recommendations.
Sudan is prone to seasonal disease outbreaks, including Chikungunya and haemorrhagic fever spread by both insect vectors and contaminated water. Further information can be found on the TravelHealthPro website.
Medical treatment
There is a particular risk to public health in conflict affected areas where immunisation coverage is poor.
As a general rule, GP facilities in Khartoum are adequate but the hospitals are not suitable for more serious medical problems. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad, medical evacuation and repatriation.
The FCDO can’t recommend any healthcare provider in Sudan, but if you urgently need emergency medical assistance in Khartoum, the following services are available:
0183 741 426 (press #236 for English) or 0912 314 621: Fedail Hospital (ambulance: 0122 222 555)
0183 279601 ext 222: Sahiroon Hospital
0183 745 444/999:  Al Zaytouna Hospital
0183 481 764 ext 118: Doctors’ Clinic
0156 550 150/151: Royal Care Hospital
You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
