Local laws reflect the fact that Sudan is predominantly Muslim and conservative. You should respect local traditions, customs, laws and religions at all times and be aware of your actions to ensure that they do not offend other cultures or religious beliefs, especially during the holy month of Ramadan or if you intend to visit religious areas.
In 2020 the Sudanese authorities amended the law on alcohol to allow consumption by non-Muslims, but not in the company of Muslims. In practice, non-Muslims drinking alcohol may face arrest regardless of the circumstances.
Non-Muslim women are not expected to wear a veil or cover their heads, but should dress modestly and respect local customs and sensitivities.
Homosexual practices and extra marital relations are illegal and subject to severe penalties. This includes inviting guests into hotel rooms. Sudanese society is not tolerant of homosexual relationships. See our information and advice page for the LGBTQ+ community before you travel.
You should carry photo ID with you at all times.
There are severe penalties for drug trafficking.
All photography requires a formal permit. Don’t take photographs or use a mobile phone camera close to government buildings, military installations, public utilities (including petrol stations), and other sensitive areas (bridges, airports etc.). Many plain clothed public security officers operate.
Accommodation
Hotels will often take a photocopy of your passport. It’s against the law to live together, or to share the same hotel room, with someone of the opposite sex to whom you aren’t married or closely related. Business meetings should take place in lobbies or business meetings room and not hotel rooms. British nationals have encountered problems in this respect with the Sudanese authorities. Tourist police patrol the hotels.
Buying property
If you want to buy property in Sudan, you should seek appropriate professional advice, as you would in the UK.
Financial crime
Financial crimes, including fraud, bouncing cheques (including post-dated and ‘security cheques’) and the non-payment of bills (including hotel bills) can often result in imprisonment and/or a fine. Bank accounts and other assets can also be frozen.
Bail is generally not available to people who are arrested for financial crimes. Those convicted will not usually be released from jail until the debt is paid or waived and they may even remain in jail after a debt has been paid if there is an outstanding sentence to be served.
Technical equipment
Equipment like satellite phones, listening or recording devices, radio transmitters, powerful cameras or binoculars may require a licence for use in Sudan. You should seek advice from the Sudanese Embassy in London before travelling.
