Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

There are currently no commercial options available to return to the UK from Sudan. The Sudanese authorities have suspended all international commercial passenger flights to and from Sudan.
The Sudanese authorities have closed all land borders (except for transfer of humanitarian aid).
French and Swedish Embassies special charter flight
On 9 May an Air Cairo flight, facilitated by the French and Swedish Embassies, will operate from Khartoum to Paris for holders of British and other European passports. Air Cairo will manage the flight registrations. There are currently no further flights planned, but this remains under constant review.
Eligibility
The plane will be an Airbus A320, with a capacity of 174 seats. This is to allow non-resident European citizens in Sudan to go back to their homes in Europe. European citizens who are not ordinarily resident in Sudan will take priority, however, we have been told that vulnerable European citizens who normally reside in Sudan, including older individuals, individuals suffering from diseases, etc may apply.
You must hold a British or other European passport to be eligible to travel on this flight. This is a condition of the charter.
Flight information
The information and details concerning this flight are as follows:
Egyptian air-flight company “Air Cairo” is chartering one special flight from Khartoum to Paris, on Saturday 9 May.
The flight is scheduled to leave Khartoum at 08:30am, local time. It will include a 1.5 hour technical stopover in Cairo and should depart Cairo at 12:00am, local time, for a landing scheduled in Paris circa 16:40pm, local time.
Passengers must arrive at Khartoum airport / check-in at 6.30am
Passengers will be required to remain on board during the stopover in Cairo, in accordance with the provisions currently in force at Cairo International Airport)
The ticket price for this Khartoum / Cairo / Paris is 818 euros, taxes included.
How to book
Bookings must be made individually by each and every European citizen directly on the company’s website
Payments to Air Cairo must also be made directly online, as part of and/or after the online booking process.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, contact the British Embassy via the webform.
Preparing for travel
Each European passenger must complete the international travel certificate which should be presented: (a) at the airline counter, here in Khartoum, during the check-in; (b) to the Air and Border Police (PAF), in France, upon arrival.
Passengers will be allowed to check in only one piece of luggage. (Any additional baggage will be charged 100 euros / piece.)
The flight is a commercial one, facilitated but not chartered by the Swedish and the French Embassies.
Onward travel
You are responsible for arranging your onward travel to the UK or other destination by air, car or train. You should check onward travel options before you commit to this flight. We understand that hotel and catering facilities are not available at or near the airports in Paris for passengers in transit.
For movement within France from the airport to reach any other another European state, whether by car or by train, it is necessary to fill in online the “Certificate of derogatory displacement” which is to be found on the French Interior Ministry’s website and tick the box “Travel for compelling family reasons”. This certificate must be shown on request to French police and should be produced with supporting documents (boarding passes and passport). For further information on travel in France see UK Travel Advice.
Further information
The British Embassy is not able to answer any questions about this flight. If you have any questions, you should contact Air Cairo.
Future travel options
The British Embassy is in contact with charter airlines, travel agents and other international organisations to identify opportunities for British people to return to the UK from Sudan. We will issue regular updates on this page and on Twitter and Facebook with the latest available information on departure options from Sudan. See Future Travel Options below.
We know this is concerning for British people trying to leave Sudan.
What to do
You should:
Follow the advice of the Sudanese authorities, including local measures to help minimise your risk of exposure to coronavirus.
Keep in regular contact with family and friends at home, so they know you are safe and well.
Registering with the Embassy
If you are a British national in Sudan and wish to register your intention to return to the UK, please email the details listed below to our dedicated mailbox at stayincontactsudan@fco.gov.uk. Please register your details with us even if you have previously been in contact so that we have the information listed below:
Your full name as shown on your passport
Passport number
Date of birth
Place of residence in UK
Where exactly you are currently staying in Sudan
Email address and telephone number (please ensure that you are able to receive phone calls from unidentified numbers, including internationally, in case we need to reach you)
Any specific medical needs/vulnerabilities
Evidence of your return journey to the UK, eg an itinerary or confirmed flight booking that you were unable to use or is imminent.
Copy of the details page of your passport
Please provide the information requested above for any family members with you in Sudan that are also seeking to return to the UK.
If you are registered with the British Embassy, we can alert you to any opportunities to book seats on flights departing Sudan for onward journeys to the UK. Such flights often come with a very tight deadline for submission of names of passengers. We will alert you, using your registration contact details, to any further departure options should these become available. This travel advice will also be updated when we are informed of other available options.
Help and Support
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British Embassy on +249 156 77 55 00. The Embassy cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone. This page will be updated when departure options become available and, if you are registered with the Embassy, we will alert you by email. To get the latest information sign up for travel advice email alerts.
Your journey home
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air. When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Further information
See more information and advice about staying where you are if you cannot return to the UK.
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
