Political situation
A military coup on 25 October 2021 triggered an ongoing political crisis. An agreement in November to reinstate a civilian government led to the re-instatement of the Prime Minister; he then resigned in January 2022. There are ongoing efforts and talks to resolve the crisis, but the political situation remains fragile.
There have been large-scale protests in Khartoum, surrounding areas and elsewhere in the country in response to the political situation. Further protests may be called at short notice. There have also been reports of increased opportunistic crime including thefts, muggings and demands for money at checkpoints. Stay away from areas where demonstrations are planned, monitor local media and follow advice of authorities. If you unexpectedly meet a demonstration, leave the area straight away. If you encounter a roadblock, remain calm and seek an alternative route. Do not attempt to force your way through it. If you are stopped, avoid confrontation.
Khartoum International Airport is open but some commercial flights have been cancelled at short notice due to protests. You should check with your travel provider if you are planning travel.
Telecommunications
There have been intermittent communication blackouts since 25 October. Mobile phone and internet services are currently available, however, telecommunications networks could be disrupted without warning. Virtual Private Networks (VPNs) are not available to download in Sudan.
Crime
The level of street crime in Khartoum and other major Sudanese cities, with the exception of Darfur, is low. As a result of the political and economic situation there have, however, been increases in opportunistic acquisitive crime, petty theft, muggings and demands for money at checkpoints. Incidents of mobile phone and bag-snatching (including drive-by bag snatching by thieves on motorbikes), aggressive begging (including attempts to open the doors of stationary vehicles), petty theft and burglaries do occur. You should remain alert and take sensible precautions to protect yourself and your belongings. Take care not to leave valuable items on display in your car while travelling and keep doors locked and windows closed at all times. If you are stopped, avoid confrontation.
Local travel
The FCDO advise against all travel to the Darfur states, the Abyei Region, South Kordofan and Blue Nile states, the southern area of West Kordofan state (that was previously part of South Kordofan), within 50km of the border with South Sudan in White Nile and Sennar states, within 200km of the border with Libya and within 20km of the borders of Eritrea and Ethiopia (including the al-Fashaga region).
The FCDO advise against all but essential travel to the Hala’ib Triangle and Bir Tawil trapezoid.
States of emergency, which give the authorities greater powers of arrest, are introduced by the government from time to time. You should seek local advice before travelling. There have been reports of arbitrary detentions in different parts of the country, including in Khartoum. Take great care around any areas that may be sensitive to the government, including military installations, border areas and camps for internally displaced persons. Don’t take photographs in these areas.
Permits are no longer officially required to travel outside of Khartoum for the purpose of tourism. Travel outside of Khartoum for any other purpose must be checked with the Aliens Department at the Ministry of Interior.
If you’re planning to travel outside of Khartoum, make sure you carry enough fuel for your journey or are confident you will be able to refuel en route, as there have been sporadic acute fuel shortages both within Khartoum and across the country.
Khartoum
As a result of the ongoing political crisis following the 25 October 2021 coup, there is a continued risk of disruption in Khartoum and elsewhere.
Fuel shortages have, at times, led to long queues at petrol stations and reduced public transport options in Khartoum. In addition to protests linked to the political crisis, there have been ad hoc peaceful protests across the city linked to the fuel shortage and wheat prices as well as around issues of transitional justice. Sporadic unofficial roadblocks linked to protests can appear in parts of the city with little or no warning. If you encounter a roadblock, remain calm and seek an alternative route. Do not attempt to force your way through.
Darfur States
The FCDO advise against all travel to the five Darfur states (Central Darfur, East Darfur, North Darfur, West Darfur and South Darfur). Protests, armed response and armed clashes in several parts of Darfur are frequent.
The security situation in Darfur is volatile and unstable. Banditry and lawlessness are widespread, and there are frequent violent confrontations between rebel and government forces, between tribes and over economic resources (land, gold), as well as continuing anti-government protests. There are tensions within camps for internally displaced people, which have sometimes resulted in violence and fatalities. Armed robbery and break-ins of guesthouses and other buildings have been reported.
Humanitarian workers and UN/international staff are possible targets of attack or for kidnap, and have been caught up in cross-fire and violent incidents. A number of aid workers and peacekeepers have been killed in recent years.
There is a high threat of kidnapping. Kidnappings can be for financial or political gain, and can be motivated by criminality or terrorism. There have been a number of kidnappings, including of British nationals and other westerners. Kidnap groups view those engaged in humanitarian aid work or journalism as legitimate targets.
If you are in Darfur against FCDO advice, you should respect any curfews that are imposed and make sure you are aware of any military operations, conflict and crime patterns. Make sure that you have co-ordinated your movements with UN Security and that all necessary parties have been notified. Anyone seeking entry to the Darfur area, for whatever purpose, must first obtain a special permit from the Sudanese government.
North Kordofan, West Kordofan, White Nile and Sennar States
The FCDO advise against all travel to within 50km of the border with South Sudan in White Nile and Sennar states.
The FCDO advise against all travel to the southern area of West Kordofan state that was formerly part of South Kordofan, as shown on the map.
There is a risk of conflict and violence spreading into White Nile, North Kordofan and Sennar states from neighbouring areas. You should maintain high situational awareness and avoid any areas where conflict is reported.
Sudan-Libya border
The FCDO advise against all travel to within 200km of the border with Libya. There are ongoing media reports of trafficking in people and goods as well as movement of armed militants between the two countries. The FCDO currently advise against all travel to Libya and the border is closed to non-African nationals.
Hala’ib Triangle and Bir Tawil Trapezoid
The Hala’ib Triangle remains disputed territory between Sudan and Egypt. If you’re in the Hala’ib Triangle and need urgent consular assistance, you should contact the British Embassy Cairo.
The Bir Tawil Trapezoid remains unclaimed by either Sudan or Egypt. If you’re in this area and need urgent consular assistance, you should contact the British Embassy in the country you last travelled through (either the British Embassy Cairo or the British Embassy Khartoum).
Crime and extortion are a threat as smuggler gangs are known to operate in vast ungoverned spaces. Due to the remoteness of the regions, there may be no phone signal or civilisation for many miles. Make sure you carry enough fuel for your journey or are confident you will be able to refuel en route.
South Kordofan, Blue Nile and Abyei
The FCDO advise against all travel to the Abyei Administrative Area. The security situation there remains tense and unpredictable.
The FCDO advise against all travel to South Kordofan and Blue Nile states, due to continuing internal conflict.
There have been reports of flooding in Blue Nile state and a cholera outbreak. If you are travelling to Blue Nile against FCDO advice you should follow health advice on cholera from NaTHNaC and monitor developments.
Landmines and unexploded ordnance are a threat in areas affected by conflict.
East Sudan: Gedaref, Kassala and Red Sea States
The FCDO advise against all travel to within 20km of the border with Eritrea and the border with Ethiopia, where clashes between security forces and militia have occurred (particularly around the al-Fashaga region).
There have been a number of protests in Red Sea State that have blocked roads and closed sea ports in Port Sudan and Suakin. If you encounter a roadblock do not attempt to go through. If you are in Red Sea State you should avoid demonstrations and protests and follow the advice of the local authorities.
Sudanese Armed Forces have been deployed along the border in Gedaref and Kassala States and are conducting operations against armed militia elements close to the border. The FCDO advise against all travel to within 20km of Sudan’s border with Ethiopia.
There have also been clashes between tribal groups in Red Sea State and Kassala State that have resulted in a number of fatalities.
If you’re travelling by road in Kassala State, you should keep to the major roads, as people-trafficking groups are believed to operate in some areas.
Local tensions in the Galabat area have previously resulted in the closure of the Metema-Galabat border post at short notice. Take care in these areas and check with local authorities on the latest situation before starting your journey.
Road travel
Road traffic accidents are common in Sudan. There is a high risk of being involved in a traffic accident when using public transport or vehicles for hire such as rickshaws and ‘amjad minivans’.
Road conditions are poor and many roads, even major ones, are not tarred or have potholes. Many roads are unsurfaced. Roads are used by pedestrians, donkey-carts and rickshaws, as well as motor vehicles. At night, there is generally no street lighting and many vehicles have no lights.
If your journey doesn’t follow a major route you should travel with an experienced local guide. Many areas south of Khartoum become inaccessible by road during the rainy season from July to October. The wadis (dry riverbeds) are subject to dangerous flash floods and many are not passable during the rains except on a major road.
You can drive in Sudan using a full UK driving licence for a maximum period of 3 months. You can get a local driving licence from the police traffic department. Although drivers should have a licence and insurance, many do not have these. Make sure you have adequate insurance.
Sudanese law prohibits the use of mobile phones while driving. 
Air travel
Since 2010, all airlines registered in Sudan have been banned from operating in the EU on the basis of safety assessments by the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO).
Sea travel
Incidents of piracy have been reported in the Red Sea around the Gulf of Aden. Be vigilant and seek local advice. For more information and advice, see our Piracy and armed robbery at sea page.
If you intend to go ashore along the Red Sea Coast, ensure you have the correct documentation.
