This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Sudan as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Sudan to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Sudan
Internal flights and all bus services between States have been suspended until further notice.
The Sudanese authorities have imposed a 24/7 lockdown in Khartoum state, which remains in place until 29 June. Curfews are in effect throughout the rest of the country, enforced by the police and armed forces. You should check the curfew times for the state in which you are located, and you must observe the lockdown and the curfew times. An Emergency Order has been signed permitting police and armed forces to fine and imprison people who break curfew.
The lockdown in Khartoum State means that:
everyone must remain at home. There are exemptions for emergency and essential workers
public and private gatherings are banned
the bridges across the Nile are closed
people may leave home between 6am and 3pm to shop for essential items in their neighbourhood.
all public departments and institutions remain closed, except core institutions including security agencies, hospitals and pharmacies
all private companies, shops and stores are closed, except bakeries, supermarkets and haulage companies
Penalties
The Sudanese authorities are strict in enforcing restrictions on movement within Khartoum state. You should only leave home in exceptional circumstances – for example going to supermarkets or pharmacies for essential items, or to access medical care. You should comply with all local restrictions introduced by the Sudanese authorities.
You should comply with any additional screening measures put in place by the authorities.
Visas
We are urgently seeking guidance from the Sudanese authorities on the impact of the flight suspension on British nationals whose visas or residency permits have expired or are due to expire.
Health
For contact details for English speaking doctors, if you are running low on medication or require emergency medical treatment, you should visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Sudan.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Sudan, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you are in need of urgent help, please contact the British Embassy in Khartoum or call +249 156 77 55 00 and follow the option for consular assistance. This telephone number is available 24/7.
If you are vulnerable with health issues, an older person, or will be travelling with young children, you can call +249 156 77 55 00 and follow the options for consular assistance.
If you need further information about entry requirements, contact the local immigration authorities or the nearest Sudanese Embassy.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
You can find more information about cases in Sudan on the TravelHealthPro country page.
Sign up for travel advice alerts and the British Embassy Facebook and Twitter pages for updates.
