

FCDO advises against all travel to Sudan
FCDO advises against travel to Sudan for security reasons.
Security situation in Sudan
Military conflict in Khartoum and other parts of Sudan is ongoing. There have been several ceasefires, but these have been regularly broken. Khartoum International Airport is currently closed.
British nationals in Sudan should consider the risks if they decide to leave Sudan by any route. Travel within or out of Sudan is  at your own risk.
Monitor  travel advice and other media reports as the situation is changing fast. Sign up to get email notifications when this travel advice is updated.
British Embassy in Sudan
The British Embassy in Khartoum is temporarily closed due to the conflict. There are no British consular staff in Sudan. Our ability to provide consular assistance is severely limited and we cannot provide in-person support within Sudan.
If you are a British national in Sudan, you can contact us on our 24/7 telephone helpline on +44 1908 516 666. Select option 2 for consular services for British nationals.
Evacuation flights ended
The UK Government is no longer running any evacuation operations from Sudan.
If you are a British national in Sudan and in need of assistance, please contact our helpline and read the departure options below. These are regularly updated.
Travel within or out of Sudan is at your own risk. The FCDO cannot offer advice on the safety of travelling to any departure point within Sudan.
The UK Government’s ability to facilitate onward travel for those travelling from Sudan into countries in the region is limited. You will therefore be expected to cover the cost of visas, accommodation, insurance and onward travel yourself. We are unable to provide support for non-British dependants of British Nationals. You can contact us on our 24/7 telephone helpline on +44 1908 516 666.
Travelling to Saudi Arabia from Port Sudan
On 12 May the Saudi government announced the end of humanitarian evacuations from Sudan. For information about arriving in Jeddah and entry requirements, see the Saudi Arabia travel advice.
If you are arriving in Jeddah from Port Sudan and need urgent assistance, you can contact our consular help desk in Jeddah on +966 (0)12 622 5550 and press option 4.
Travelling to Egypt from Sudan
Large numbers of people are trying to cross the border from Sudan into Egypt. There are two main land border crossings between Egypt and Sudan, at Qustul and Argeen. The nearest town in Sudan to the crossings is Wadi Halfa (30km from border). There is almost no infrastructure at these border crossings. Individuals are currently waiting several days to transit the border, with very limited access to food and water.
We do not have a presence at the Egyptian border and our ability to provide consular assistance is very limited. If you are a British national planning to cross into Egypt at Argeen or Qustul and you do not have valid documentation with you, please contact the British Embassy in Cairo on + 2 (02) 2791 6000.
See our Egypt travel advice for entry requirements.
Travelling to Chad, Eritrea, Central Africa Republic, South Sudan, Libya or Ethiopia from Sudan
Sudan’s borders with Chad and Eritrea are currently closed.
FCDO advises against all travel to Central African Republic, South Sudan, Libya and within 20km of the Ethiopian side of the border with Sudan.
Help and support in Sudan
If you are in Sudan, you can contact our 24/7 helpline on:
+44 1908 516 666
Select option 2 for consular services for British nationals.
Concern for friends and family
If you’re in the UK and worried about a British person in Sudan, you can contact us 24/7 on:
020 7008 5000
You can also submit a written enquiry, or contact us on Twitter or Facebook.
Malaria risk
Reported malaria cases have increased in Khartoum. See Health.
If you have recently left Sudan, and develop fever or flu-like symptoms, you should seek urgent medical attention and tell them that you have recently left a malarial risk area.
UK Visa and Passport Information
If you are a British national in Sudan, and would like information about applying for UK visas for your family then visit www.gov.uk/apply-to-come-to-the-uk or call UK Visas and Immigration on +44 (0) 203 875 4669.
We are currently unable to accept applications for British passports from Sudan.  You can apply in a neighbouring country of your choice.  Visit www.gov.uk/overseas-passports or call the passport advice line on +44 (0) 300 222 0000.
Travel insurance
FCDO advises that no one should travel to Sudan because the risks are too high.
Your travel insurance could be invalidated if you travel against FCDO advice.
