Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Panama on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Panama.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Panama
Panama is currently under a state of emergency, and a curfew is in place.
Measures in place to combat the spread of COVID-19 vary by province. Sanitary cordons may be imposed at short notice to restrict travel between provinces.
Domestic flights are operating.
Nationwide measures
There is a nationwide daily mandated curfew from 12 midnight until 4 AM. Stricter provincial measures may also apply. Subject to provincial measures, leaving your home/accommodation is permitted between the hours of 4 AM and 10 PM, unless you have any symptoms of COVID-19, or have otherwise been ordered to quarantine by the Panamanian authorities.
If you are arriving internationally during the hours covered by the curfew, you are allowed to travel to your accommodation if you can provide proof of your arrangements or flight details (boarding pass, flight itinerary and/or other forms of proof) to the requesting authorities. ‘Salvoconductos’ (travel permits) are only necessary for those undertaking essential activities that require movement during curfew hours.
Beaches and rivers will be open from 6AM until 6PM, from Monday to Sunday. Only family bubbles will be allowed to enter beaches. No big groups will be permitted and alcohol consumption will be prohibited. Social areas and pools in buildings can operate at up to 25% capacity, with limits on numbers to be supervised by each building administration.
Restaurants can continue to operate with the following conditions in place:
A 2 metre distance between tables must be maintained.
They must close at 11PM (Delivery can also continue until 11PM).
All personnel must use facemasks, face shields and comply with biosecurity measures.
Shops must comply with a 50% capacity rule to prevent overcrowding.
From 10 May, gatherings in public or commercial areas must comply with the Government’s 25% capacity rule to prevent overcrowding. In addition, you must adhere to biosafety measures including the use of facemasks and maintaining a 2-metre distance between individual groups or each person. You are now allowed to gather at conferences, seminars, sporting events and musical presentations in small venues.
Sanitary Cordons and Checkpoints
Sanitary cordons and checkpoints can be introduced with little or no notice. You may be randomly tested for COVID-19 if you are stopped.
COVID-19 Restrictions in Panama City and San Miguelito
From 7 June 2021, curfew in the district of Panama and San Miguelito will run from 10 PM to 4 AM, business venues will close at 9 PM. The new curfew does not apply to San Felipe, were the curfew remains from 12 AM to 4 AM.
Towns of Taboga, East Otoque and West Otoque will continue with daily curfew from 12 AM to 4 AM.
COVID-19 Restrictions in Chiriquí
From 27 June, the following restrictions are in place in the province of Chiriqui:
Curfew from Monday to Sunday for the districts of David, Bugaba, Dolega, Baru, Tierras Altas, Alanje and Boquete from 10 PM to 4 AM.
Curfew from Monday to Sunday for the districts of Remedios, Renacimiento, Gualaca, San Felix, Tole and San Lorenzo from 12 PM to 4 AM.
The full lockdown measure on Sundays is lifted across the province.
COVID-19 Restrictions in Los Santos
From 27 June, the following restrictions are in place for the province of Los Santos, districts of Las Tablas, Macaracas and Los Santos:
Curfew from Monday to Saturday from 10 PM to 4 AM.
Commercial establishments close at 9 PM
Full lockdown from 10 PM Saturday to 4 AM Monday with stay at home orders for Sunday.
Exception for the districts of Pedasi and Pocri: they only have curfew from midnight to 4 AM.
COVID-19 Restriction in Veraguas
From 20 June, the following restrictions are in place in the province of Veraguas:
Curfew from Monday to Saturday from 10 PM to 4 AM
Commercial establishments to close at 9 PM
Full lockdown starting 10 PM Saturday to 4 AM Monday with stay at home orders for Sunday.
Exception: Full quarantine measures lifted for the districts of La Palma, Cañazas, Montijo, Calobre, Santa Fe, Mariato and Rio de Jesus with daily curfew with the daily curfew from to 12 PM-4 AM.
COVID-19 Restrictions in Cocle
From 27 June, the following restrictions are in place in the province of Cocle:
Curfew from Monday to Saturday from 10 PM to 4 AM
Commercial establishments to close at 9 PM
Exception: Full lockdown starting from 10 PM Saturday to 4 AM Monday with stay at home orders for Sunday within the district of Aguadulce.
COVID-19 Restrictions for Herrera
From 27 June, the following restrictions are in place in the province of Herrera:
Curfew from Monday to Saturday from 10 PM to 4 AM
Commercial establishments close at 9 PM
Full lockdown starting 10 PM Saturday to 4 AM Monday with stay at home orders for Sunday.
Exception for the districts of Santa Maria, Las Minas and Los Pozos: curfew from 12 PM to 4 AM
COVID-19 Restrictions for Panama Oeste and the areas of Pacora (Panama Este) and Panama
From 20 June, the following restrictions are in place in the province Panama Oeste and the areas of Pacora (Panama Este) and Panama Norte:
Curfew from Monday to Saturday from 10 PM to 4 AM
Commercial establishments close at 9 PM
Province of Colon
From 27 June, the following restrictions are in place within the province of Colon:
Curfew from Monday to Saturday from 10 PM to 4 AM
Commercial establishments close at 9 PM
Full lockdown starting 10 PM Saturday to 4 AM Monday (stay at home orders for Sunday)
Travel to and from the airport
Airports, ports and boarders will remain open; proof of good health will be required at these entry points.
If you are travelling to and from the airport, it will be necessary that you have a copy of your plane ticket or itinerary. If you will be travelling to the airport to pick someone up or drop someone off, please have a copy of that person’s plane ticket or itinerary as well. You will need to show these at the different checkpoint in order to continue with your journey.
Public spaces and services
Face masks
The wearing of masks outside of your accommodation is compulsory nationwide.
Transport
Rideshare apps such as “Uber” have resumed services in Panama. Yellow taxis are available too.
The police and security forces are empowered to enforce restrictions on movements and events due to the current state of emergency. You must follow their instructions.
The wearing of masks and face shields/visors is mandatory on all public transport.
Healthcare in Panama
If you are concerned that you may be unwell as a result of coronavirus, you should call the national hotline on 169, or use the Panamanian Government’s “R.O.S.A” (virtual clinic) to send a WhatsApp message, and follow their advice.
You can access the Panamanian public healthcare system on the same terms as Panamanians. Coronavirus tests in the public system, for those who meet the clinical requirement to be tested, will be free of charge.
From 6 March 2021, Panamanian authorities granted access to routine medical care and elective surgeries, provided medical facilities comply with the protocol established by the Panamanian Ministry of Health.
You should verify service availability with medical facilities, as most public and private centres do not accept walk-ins and require you to book an appointment prior to arrival.
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Panama.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Panama
Wherever possible British nationals should aim to be vaccinated in the country where they live. As further information is available about the national vaccination programme, this page will be updated. Sign up to get email notifications.
The Panamanian authorities have created a portal to register for inclusion in the national vaccination programme. This is available for all Panamanian residents over the age of 16, including British national.
The Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) is the UK authority responsible for assessing the safety, quality and efficacy of vaccines. It has authorised the Pfizer/BioNTech, Oxford/AstraZeneca and Moderna vaccines for temporary supply and use in the UK. Find out more about MHRA approval for these vaccines.
British nationals living overseas should seek medical advice from their local healthcare provider in the country where they reside. Information about vaccines used in other national programmes, including regulatory status, should be available from the local authorities. This list of Stringent Regulatory Authorities recognised by the World Health Organisation may also be a useful source of additional information. Find out more information about the COVID-19 vaccines on the World Health Organization COVID-19 vaccines page.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements.
Further information
You should monitor the press and official announcements of the Panamanian government to ensure you are up-to-date with any changes to these restrictions.
The Panamanian Tourism Authority (ATP) has created the following helpline to provide assistance: +507 6330 2520 or via email to contact@atp.gob.pa.
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
