The information on this page covers the most common types of travel and reflects the UK government’s understanding of the rules currently in place. Unless otherwise stated, this information is for travellers using a full ‘British Citizen’ passport.
The authorities in the country or territory you’re travelling to are responsible for setting and enforcing the rules for entry. If you’re unclear about any aspect of the entry requirements, or you need further reassurance, you’ll need to contact the Embassy, High Commission or Consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
You should also consider checking with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements. Furthermore, you should consider clarifying whether there are any testing requirements or measures put in place by your airline or countries you are transiting that may affect your travel.
Entry rules in response to coronavirus (COVID-19)
International flights have resumed to and from Tocumen International Airport.
An electronic affidavit of good health for all travellers entering the country needs to be filled in upon arrival. The affidavit form will be available at the website: https://www.panamadigital.gob.pa/RegistroPacoViajero. The completed affidavit will generate a QR code, which will needs to be scanned on arrival at Tocumen Airport.
Panama encourages the use of the IATA Travel Pass app. This app will have up-to-date information on travel restrictions, authorised labs for COVID-19 tests and vaccine information. It will have the option to enter personal data, such as vaccination information and tests undertaken. The government will accept the “OK to Travel” certification from this app as a validation for COVID-19 tests on travellers.
Entry Restrictions to Panama
From 26 July 2021, vaccination certificates and negative COVID-19 test results need to be uploaded to Panama’s Health Affidavit before arrival. Paper or digital vaccine certificates need to be presented at the airport upon arrival.
All passengers entering from low-risk countries (as those defined by the Ministry of Health) can be exempt from the three-day quarantine and molecular test on arrival, if they meet the following:
A negative PCR or antigen test that is valid within 72hours before entering the country.
Or, cover the cost of a PCR or antigen test at the port of entry, and receive a negative COVID-19 test result.
Quarantine and testing requirements
Travellers coming from, or who have stayed in or transited through a high-risk country within the last 15 days (as identified by the Ministry of Health), who do not have a vaccination certificate (the final dose having been received at least 15 days prior to arrival), are required to take a COVID-19 test upon arrival at their own cost. You must quarantine for 72 hours. For Panamanian nationals and residents, this can be at their own residence. Foreign travellers must enter a government-sponsored facility or pay for a government-approved hotel themselves.
Travellers that have completed the 72-hour quarantine will be required to undergo another COVID-19 Antigen test at a government-approved laboratory.
If the result is negative, the authorities will end the quarantine period. If the result is positive, you will be required to complete a 14-day mandatory quarantine at a pre-approved government facility at your own cost and cover the cost of the PCR test.
Passengers that need to comply with the 72-hour preventive quarantine must show completed booking reservation at an approved quarantine hotel facility prior to entering Panama.
The official list of pre-approved quarantine hotel facilities can be found on the Visit Panama website.
From Monday 9 August 2021, there will be different criteria for quarantine depending on your vaccination status. (See ‘Demonstrating your COVID-19 vaccination status’)
Travellers coming from, or who have stayed in or transited through a high-risk country in the last 15 days will not need to undergo a COVID-19 test upon arrival to Panama if they are:
Fully vaccinated with the required doses, with the last dose having been received at least 14 days prior to entry,
Holders of a negative PCR or antigen test that is valid within 72 hours before entering the country.
These travellers will not need to quarantine on arrival.
Travellers entering from high-risk countries that are fully vaccinated but do not have a valid COVID-19 PCR or antigen test will need to undergo a second COVID-19 test upon arrival at their own cost.
If the outcome of the test is negative, you will not need to quarantine.
If the outcome of the test is positive, you will have to undergo another COVID-19 test at your own cost. In the event of another positive, you will need to quarantine for 14 days at your own cost at a pre-approved government run facility.
Travellers that have transited or spent the last 15 days in a high-risk country without a completed vaccination course (the final dose having been received at least 14 days prior to entry) and have a negative COVID-19 test that is valid within 72 hours before entering the country, will be required to carry out a second COVID-19 test upon arrival.
If the result is positive, you will need to quarantine for 14 days at your own cost at a pre-approved government run facility.
If the result is negative, you will need to quarantine for 72 hours at one of the following:
For foreign travellers, quarantine at a pre-approved hotel facility at your own cost
For Panamanian nationals or residents, at your place of residence - if quarantining at place of residence you must provide the health authorities with a residential phone number for follow up
The official list of pre-approved quarantine hotel facilities can be found on the Visit Panama website.
When quarantining at a hotel, you will not be allowed to leave your room until the 72 hours are complete.
The local authorities have prohibited take away deliveries for travellers required to quarantine at a hotel.
Travellers that have completed the 72 hours quarantine will be required to undergo another COVID-19 Antigen test at a government-approved laboratory.
Demonstrating your COVID-19 vaccination status
Panama will accept the UK’s proof of COVID-19 recovery and vaccination record. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccine status.
Transiting Panama
It is now possible to transit Panama. You will need to have the following items:
Negative COVID-19 PCR test results. The test must be taken within 48 hours of your travel to Panama
Confirmed onward flight
Unless you meet entry requirements, you will not be allowed to leave the airport during your transit.
You should check the requirements for your country of final destination as requirements may vary.
Data collection
You will be required to give address details of your accommodation and a contact telephone number. You will also be required to download a tracing application to your smartphone.
Regular entry requirements
Visas
British nationals don’t need a visa to visit Panama except if arriving by sea. You must have a return or onward ticket and the equivalent of USD 500 or a credit card.
If you enter Panama by land from Costa Rica, and are not a legal resident of Costa Rica, the immigration authorities may ask you to show proof of onward or return travel to your country of legal residence.
You may be detained by immigration officials if you attempt to renew your tourist visa by visiting a neighbouring country, including Costa Rica. You must follow the relevant rules and procedures when seeking to extend a visa. The British Embassy can’t intervene in decisions made by the immigration authorities. For more information visit the Panama National Migration Service website.
A 180-day tourist visa is stamped on your passport to mark entry to Panama. Extensions are not normally allowed unless you apply to change your immigration status within the 180 days (for business purposes, marriage, etc). For further information on entry requirements, check with the Embassy of the Republic of Panama in London.
When transiting the Panama Canal, if you disembark the ship, your passport will be stamped by the immigration authorities. You do not need a visa unless you are staying in Panama for more than 90 days. Immigration officials do not board transiting cruise ships to check passports.
If you arrive in Panama by sea, except via a cruise line, you will need a visa. There is a fee of USD 100 plus USD 5 registration per person for passengers and crew members of vessels. Other fees may be charged, for example for cruising permits. Make sure immigration officials properly stamp your passport with the date of entry into the country. Check with the Embassy of Panama in London for further details.
Passport validity
Your passport should be valid for a minimum period of 6 months from the date of exit from Panama. Your passport must also have several unused pages.
Airport tax
A USD 40 airport tax is charged on departure. This is usually included in the airline ticket fare. Check with your carrier.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
Permanent Residency Law
The Government of Panama has created a subcategory of permanent residency for foreign nationals of 22 countries with which Panama has especially friendly relations, including the UK. The decree allows British nationals to apply for a permanent residency permit to undertake commercial or professional activities (subject to certain limitations). For more information contact the  Panama National Migration Service on (507) 507-1800 or contact a local solicitor prior to your arrival in Panama as a number of the documents required must be legalised (issued with an apostille), which can only be done by the Legalisation Office in the UK.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are accepted for entry, airside transit and exit from Panama. Your ETD must be valid for a minimum period of 6 months from the date of entry into Panama.
