At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Coronavirus
On 11 March the World Health Organisation declared the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) outbreak a pandemic. Cases have been confirmed in most Latin American Countries, including Panama. The Panamanian authorities have introduced a number of measures to limit the spread of the virus including the hotline 169. This hotline is available to answer any questions or receive information regarding suspicious case of coronavirus. You should comply with any additional screening measures put in place by the Panamanian authorities.
On 13 March Panama announced a ban on all flights arriving from and departing to Europe with effect from midnight (Panama time) on Saturday 14 March. This will affect flights operated by Air France, KLM, Iberia, Air Europa, Lufthansa and Turkish Airlines. On 15 March, the Panamanian authorities later modified this measure and announced restrictions on all entry to Panama, except for nationals and residents of Panama, effective from 23:59 on 16 March.
The FCO strongly encourages non-resident British nationals in Panama to consider leaving to avoid difficulties they will face if flights out of the country and the region are further restricted and they are unable to get home. Non-resident British nationals in Panama who wish to leave should contact their airline or tour operator, and travel insurance company.
If you are concerned that you may be unwell as a result of the coronavirus, you should call the national hotline on 169 and follow their advice.
Further advice on coronavirus is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
Medical treatment
Panama City has some good private hospitals and clinics, but medical facilities outside the capital are limited. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation.
Due to government measures imposed to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus, routine healthcare – including elective surgeries and consultations with doctors – in both hospitals and other clinics has been restricted to people with chronic illness, children and those who are pregnant.
Health risks
Malaria and dengue fever are common throughout the year in parts of Panama, including some outlying areas of Panama City.
UK health authorities have classified Panama as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For information and advice about the risks associated with Zika virus, visit the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
Cases of Chikungunya virus have been confirmed in Panama and the number of reported cases in the region is increasing. You should take steps to avoid being bitten by mosquitoes.
UNAIDS figures estimate that around 17,000 adults aged 15 or over in Panama were living with HIV in 2015. The prevalence percentage was estimated at around 0.7% of the adult population. You should exercise normal precautions to avoid exposure to HIV/AIDS.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 911 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
