Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

There are currently no commercial options available to return to the UK from Panama. All commercial flights have now ceased operation to/from Panama until at least 22 May 2020. The last airline-operated special flights have now departed.
Special European flight
A special European flight, operated by Evelop Air, will depart Panama Tocumen International Airport on Monday 11 May at 2:00 PM for Paris, France (CDG). It will make a brief stopover of 1.5hrs in Honduras (San Pedro Sula) to pick up other passengers. Passengers that have boarded the flight in Panama will not be allowed to disembark the plane in Honduras. Arrival to Paris CDG is scheduled for 10:30 AM Tuesday 12 May.
This flight is organised within the European Civil Protection Mechanism Framework and coordinated by the French Embassy, with the support of all European Embassies in Panama, the EU delegation, and the Government of Panama. The flight is reserved for European and UK tourists. In addition, European citizens residing in Panama or citizens of third states residing in the European Union who have an emergency reason to return to Europe may register their interest for the flight.
We are not aware of any other special humanitarian flights leaving from Panama City to mainland Europe and there are unlikely to be any more until the air embargo is lifted. There are no plans currently for direct flights to the UK.
How to register for the flight
If you wish to travel, you should use the form to register your interest as soon as possible. It is one form per person, including minors.
This form is not a confirmed booking for the flight. You will receive within a few days an email to confirm booking and instructions for payment.
The cost for this flight is set at €450 euros per person (there are no special fees for children).
The ticket price includes one check-in luggage of up to 23kg and one carry-on bag of up to 5kg.
If you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should contact: Phone: +507 297-6550, Email: Panama.Consulate@fco.gov.uk.
If you decide to book with Evelop Air, send us: * your booking confirmation * your contact telephone * your current location.
You should wear a mask, gloves and bring hand sanitiser on the trip.
Transport to the Airport
Passengers are responsible for coordinating travel to the airport. Taxis, Cabify and InDriver continue to operate, as do the two transport options below. Others may be available. You should book in advance and inform us of your arrangements, as below:
Company: Traslados Panama
Contact: Ing. Vladimir Arrocha
Tel: +507 395-3672 / 73
Fax: +507 279-3250
Cel:+507 6983-6440 (WhatsApp)
Skype: trasladospanama
Email: info@trasladospanamacorp.com
Web: www.trasladospanamacorp.com
Company: Bus Port Group
Contact: Edwin Espino
Tel: +507 387-4430
Cel:+507 6301-0401 (WhatsApp)
Email: xrodriguez@busportgroup.com
Movement within Panama is restricted, but for those with tickets, travel to the airport for repatriation is a valid exemption. The British Embassy can facilitate a safe passage letter in Spanish and English for the driver for use at checkpoints to and from the airport. Email us your flight confirmation along with the following details: the driver’s full name; identification number (cedula), licence plate number and make and model of the vehicle, and the names of British nationals traveling with you.
If you are experiencing difficulty in booking transportation, we may be able to assist by putting you in touch with others in the same area who will also be traveling to the capital. The cost of the transport will remain the responsibility of each passenger.
You should arrive in Panama City the day prior to the flight, to prevent any last minute delays. Contact BEPanama.CV@fco.gov.uk if you need information regarding hotels.
Arrival in France
France does not apply quarantine measures to travellers. Nationals of the European Union or certain other countries (UK, Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway, Andorra, Monaco, Switzerland, San Marino, Holy See) can enter France freely. For third-country nationals, it is mandatory to have your primary residence in the European Union or the above-listed countries and to carry a valid residence permit or long-stay visa.
Flights and trains continue to connect Paris to European capitals. We encourage you to arrange your onward connection to the UK accordingly with the respective rail, road and airline services. See FCO Travel Advice relating to France for further advice.
All travellers must complete an international travel authorisation on the same day of travel to France.
Travellers who have to leave Paris CDG Airport to continue their journey must also complete an authorisation for movement on French territory.
Authorisation forms will also be available at the airport on the day of the flight.
What to do
If you cannot leave Panama at this time, you should:
email your details to BEPanama.CV@fco.gov.uk, so we can alert you when options become available
follow the advice of local authorities, including local measures to help minimise your risk of exposure to coronavirus
find accommodation that’s suitable for your needs
keep in regular contact with family and friends at home, so they know you are safe and well
See more information and advice about staying where you are if you cannot return to the UK.
Future travel options
This travel advice will be updated when departure options become available.
Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British Embassy on Twitter and Facebook.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Your journey home
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air. When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British Embassy on +507 297-6550 or through the recommended consular contacts.
The Embassy cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone. This page will be updated when departure options become available. To get the latest information, sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British Embassy on Twitter and Facebook.
Further information
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately
