This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Panama as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Panama to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Informing the British Embassy
If you cannot leave Panama at this time, email your details to BEPanama.CV@fco.gov.uk.
Moving around in Panama
For information on entering Panama, see Entry Requirements
Panama is currently under a state of emergency, and quarantine measures are in place.
On 19 March 2020, the Panamanian Government began establishing sanitary cordons in different provinces of the country, including Panama City, with checkpoints in various locations. The Panamanian Government may change suddenly the provinces with sanitary cordons, and may introduce other restrictions on movement. These are posted on the Panamanian Ministry of Health Twitter feed.
You should avoid any unnecessary travel to and from any of the areas included in sanitary cordons. If you urgently need to travel, you will need to show ID and proof of your reason for needing to cross the checkpoint in order to pass, such as evidence of your flight out of Panama.
Local authorities may also impose similar restrictions on movement.
Quarantine measures
From 1 April 2020, unless you fall under one of the quarantine exemptions, only women are permitted to leave their homes/accommodation on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays and only men are permitted to leave their homes/accommodation on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays.
On those days, you are allowed to leave your homes/accommodation to shop for food and medication or to exercise (running, cycling or skating within 1km of your accommodation) for one hour (with a half hour grace period either side) according to the last digit of your passport:
Last digit of your passport Time allowed out
0 10am (9.30-11.30am)
1 1pm (12.30-2.30pm)
2 2pm (1.30-3.30pm)
3 3pm (2.30-4.30pm)
4 4pm (3.30-5.30pm)
5 5pm (4.30-6.30pm)
6 6pm (5.30-7.30pm)
7 7am (6.30-8.30am)
8 8am (7.30-9.30am)
9 9am (8.30-10.30am)
People over the age of 60 and people with disabilities can shop between 11am and 1pm, regardless of their ID/passport number.
You should not leave your accommodation outside of these times unless it is an emergency or you fall under one of the limited exemptions.
No one should leave their homes/accommodation on Sundays.
From 13 May 2020, one child at a time is allowed to be taken by one parent or guardian, to the social areas of their accommodation or to the immediate surroundings of their accommodation, during the adult’s allotted hour (based on the last number of the ID).
In Panama City, the wearing of masks outside of your accommodation is compulsory. Elsewhere, members of the public have been urged to wear masks when leaving their accommodation. Some pharmacy and supermarket chains require customers to wear masks.
Alcohol
On 25 March 2020 the distribution, sale and consumption of alcoholic drinks was banned for the duration of the national state of emergency. The Panamanian government began relaxing this ban on 8 May 2020, with permission granted initially for domestic personal consumption only. Limits per person are imposed on the sale of alcohol. However, different local authorities across the country are maintaining the total ban.
Transport
Uber is no longer in circulation for passenger travel. Yellow taxis have a reduced presence, and do not operate on Sundays.
The police and security forces are empowered to enforce restrictions on movements and events due to the current state of emergency. You should follow their instructions.
Business
Commercial businesses have been ordered to close, except for supermarkets, pharmacies, health clinics, fuel stations and other key businesses. Supermarkets can have no more than 50 people inside. The Panamanian government began relaxing these restrictions from 13 May 2020, and you should check the Panamanian Ministry of Health Twitter feed for the latest updates.
Health
The authorities have set up a hotline (169) to answer any questions or receive information regarding a suspected case of coronavirus. If you are concerned that you may be unwell as a result of the coronavirus, you should call the national hotline on 169, or use the Panamanian Government’s “R.O.S.A” (virtual clinic) using this link to send a WhatsApp message, and follow their advice.
You can access the Panamanian public healthcare system on the same terms as Panamanians. Coronavirus tests in the public system for those who meet the clinical requirement to be tested will be free of charge.
On 15 March 2020, Panamanian authorities announced new restrictions on access to medical services for routine care, as well as widespread closures of commercial and leisure establishments. Further restrictions were announced on 20 March 2020. Routine healthcare – including elective surgeries and consultations with doctors – in both hospitals and other clinics has been restricted to people with chronic illness, children and those who are pregnant. From 13 May 2020, private clinics can operate, provided they comply with the protocols established by the Panamanian Ministry of Health.
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Panama.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Panama, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
You should monitor the press and official announcements of the Panamanian government to ensure you are up-to-date with any changes to these restrictions.
The Panamanian Tourism Authority (ATP) has created the following helpline to provide assistance: +507 6330 2520 or via email to contact@atp.gob.pa.
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
