The FCDO advises against all but essential travel to:
the whole of Panama based on the current assessment of COVID-19 risks.
From 4am on 15 January, visitors who have been in or transited through Panama in the previous 10 days cannot enter the UK. British and Irish nationals, and third country nationals with residence rights in the UK arriving in England from Panama will be required to quarantine at a hotel. Different requirements apply for arrivals into Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland.
From 1 January onwards people with residence rights include: holders of Indefinite Leave to Remain; holders of existing leave to enter or remain (i.e those with biometric Residence permits) or an entry clearance/visa that grants such leave e.g. students, workers, etc (excluding visit visas); holders of EU Settlement Scheme (“EUSS”) leave; those who have rights of entry under the Withdrawal Agreements (including returning residents with a right of residence under the EEA Regulations and EEA frontier workers); family members of EEA nationals with rights under the Withdrawal Agreement.
Travel to Panama is subject to entry restrictions
International flights have resumed to and from Tocumen International Airport
Entry to Panama is closed to anyone, with the exception of Panamanian nationals and residents, that has been in either the United Kingdom or South Africa within 20 days of their arrival in the country
Entry to Panama is open to Panamanian nationals, residents, tourists and business travelers who have a negative COVID-19 PCR test certificate and who have not spent time in the United Kingdom or South Africa in the 20 days prior to their arrival. The test must be taken no more than 48 hours before you travel. If you cannot do this, a test can be taken at the airport on arrival at a cost of USD 50.00. If the test is positive, there is a mandatory requirement to quarantine for at least 7 days at a government facility or for as long as the local health authorities deem necessary.
From 19 April, travellers who have spent the last 15 days in South America, or have transited through South America, must provide a negative PCR or antigen test taken within the last 48 hours before travel to Panama. On arrival, these travellers will need to cover the cost of a molecular test prior to registering with the immigration authorities.
If the local test is negative, travellers are required to quarantine at their homes, or at a government approved observation hotel, for three days. After the third day, travellers will be tested again.If the results are negative, then the prevention measures have ended. If the results are positive, travellers would need a PCR-RT by +ICGES test and will be required to comply with a 14 quarantine at a government facility.
From 3 May, travellers must comply with the above-mentioned 3-day quarantine at their own expense at pre-approved facilities. The official list can be found at www.visitpanama.com
See Entry requirements for more information before you plan to travel
Preparing for your return journey to the UK
If you’re returning to the UK from overseas, you will need to:
provide your journey and contact details before you travel
check if you need to self-isolate on your return
If your return journey to the UK transits another country, you should check whether it is subject to a travel ban or any other additional requirements. If so, contact your travel provider.
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
If you’re planning travel to Panama, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCDO’s guidance on foreign travel insurance.
For information about COVID-19 vaccines, see the Coronavirus page.
Normally, foreign driving licences are only valid for 90 days following your entry to the country. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, and until further notice, the local transit authorities are issuing rolling extensions each month to the 90-day validity of foreign driving licenses. See Road travel
If you travel to the Darien province you should do so only with an organised group to destinations under the surveillance of the Panamanian police. See Local travel
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Panama, attacks can’t be ruled out. See Terrorism
UK health authorities have classified Panama as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For information and advice about the risks associated with Zika virus, visit the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
You can contact the emergency services on 911. Alternatively, call 104 for police or 103 for ambulance and fire.
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.
