

Terrorism  
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.      
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Tuvalu 
Although there is no recent history of terrorism in Tuvalu, attacks cannot be ruled out. 
Laws and cultural differences  
Illegal drugs and prison sentences 
It is illegal to import, export, cultivate or distribute drugs. Penalties include fines and imprisonment. 
LGBT+ travellers 
Homosexuality is illegal in Tuvalu. If you’re found guilty of consensual sex between adult males, you could face up to 14 years in prison. 
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers. 
Internet and phone services 
There is one local mobile network in Tuvalu, other international networks will not work. You can buy local SIM cards in Funafuti. 
Money 
There are no ATMs in Tuvalu, and credit or debit card payments are not accepted. Bring enough Australian dollars in cash with you for the duration of your trip. 
Outdoor activities and adventure tourism  
Swimming safety 
Take care when swimming, diving or snorkelling in the sea as currents can be extremely strong. Coral reefs can easily cause cuts and scrapes. If you decide to scuba dive, make sure you use a reputable, fully licensed company with up-to-date equipment and necessary safety features. Deaths and serious accidents have occurred because basic safety measures were not in place. There are limited medical facilities in Tuvalu. 
Swimming in Funafuti lagoon is not recommended as it is highly polluted. 
See water safety on holiday from the Royal Life Saving Society. 
Transport risks  
Sea travel 
Before travelling in any vessel, check: 
you’re covered by insurance 
it is not overloaded 
there are safety precautions in place 
safety equipment is accessible and in working order 
Road travel  
If you are planning to drive in Tuvalu, see information on driving abroad.  
You can use a UK photocard driving licence to drive in Tuvalu for up to 2 weeks. If you still have a paper driving licence, you may need to update it to a photocard licence or get the correct version of the international driving permit (IDP) as well.  
Extreme weather and natural disasters 
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards. 
Tropical cyclones 
The tropical cyclone season normally runs from November to May, but cyclones can happen throughout the year. During cyclone season there is a greater risk of strong winds and heavy rains, flooding, landslides and road closures.  
Monitor local and international weather updates from the Tuvalu Meteorological Service, in local newspapers and on Tuvalu Media Department Radio on 621 AM. 
Earthquakes and tsunamis 
The US Federal Emergency Management Agency website has advice about what to do before, during and after an earthquake and resulting tsunamis. 
