Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Israel on the TravelHealthPro website and for the Occupied Palestinian Territories on the TravelHealthPro website.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
Commercial flights are now operating to and from Israel on a limited number of routes. These include a limited number of direct flights to the UK. Check with your travel company for the latest information.
All travellers arriving from abroad will be required to present a negative COVID-19 PCR test taken within the 72 hours prior to departure to Israel. All incoming passengers must also complete an inbound passenger statement within the 24 hours prior to departure to Israel. Foreign nationals must also have an entry permit from the Israeli Population and Immigration Authority.
Passengers who were not vaccinated in Israel, or who have not recovered from COVID-19 in Israel, or who have visited Ukraine, Ethiopia, Brazil, South Africa, India, Mexico or Turkey within 14 days prior to arrival are required to enter isolation. Travellers who were vaccinated or recovered from COVID-19 outside of Israel can apply for an exemption from isolation if they take a serological test and test positive for COVID-19 antibodies in an accredited Israeli laboratory.
Full guidance on requirements upon arrival is regularly updated on the Israeli government website.
Check travel advice for any country that you will transit between Israel or the Occupied Palestinian Territories and the UK, as you may need to show proof of onward travel or complete additional documents.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Israel or the Occupied Palestinian Territories.
Returning to the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Israel or the Occupied Palestinian Territories
There are limited public transport services to Tel Aviv Ben Gurion International Airport, and local taxis and minicabs can be arranged. You will need to comply with social distancing and health regulations when travelling to the airport.
You may face delays or restrictions at Israeli controlled checkpoints around the West Bank, including when attempting to leave the West Bank.
Information on the current requirements when travelling in Israel can be found on Israel’s Ministry of Health website. This includes requirements when travelling on public transport, in taxis or in private vehicles, and requirements to wear a face covering in public.
On 5 March 2020 the Palestinian Authority (PA) announced a state of emergency related to the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. While some restrictions have been removed, the state of emergency remains in place. You should follow local announcements for any changes to restrictions in the Occupied Palestinian Territories, and confirm any travel arrangements or hotel bookings before moving around the Occupied Palestinian Territories.
Accommodation
Some hotels across Israel and the Occupied Palestinian Territories have now reopened. Hotels in Israel are required to comply with the “Purple Badge” requirements and guidelines set by the Israeli Ministry of Health.
Public places and services
Information on the current regulations in Israel can be found on Israel’s Ministry of Health website. This includes regulations for shops, restaurants, bars, other leisure activities and large gatherings.
On 5 March 2020 the Palestinian Authority announced a state of emergency in the Occupied Palestinian Territories, related to the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. While some restrictions have been removed, the state of emergency remains in place. You should follow local announcements for any changes to restrictions in the Occupied Palestinian Territories, and confirm any travel arrangements or hotel bookings before moving around the Occupied Palestinian Territories.
Healthcare in Israel
You should follow the guidance from Ministry of Health and the Palestinian Authority, and be alert to local changes.
For contact details of English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
If you think you have COVID-19 symptoms, you should call the Ministry of Health hotline on *5400 (when you hear the Hebrew message dial 2, 1, 2). After a short assessment you will be forwarded to a designated Magen David Adom (MDA) unit. MDA will coordinate a testing location with you. Results for foreign nationals will be sent to the nearest Ministry of Health Unit. You should take note of how your name is spelt in Hebrew in the system as this will help with tracking results.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Israel.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Israel or the Occupied Palestinian Territories
Wherever possible British nationals should aim to be vaccinated in the country where they live. As further information is available about the national vaccination programmes, this page will be updated. You can sign up to get email notifications for Israel and for the Occupied Palestinian Territories when this page is updated.
The Israeli national vaccination programme started in December 2020 and is using the Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna vaccines. British nationals resident in Israel and Jerusalem over the age of 12 are eligible for vaccination. If you are considering a vaccination for somebody aged between 12 and 18, or wish to receive further information about arranging a vaccination, you should seek contact your local healthcare provider.
The Palestinian Authority has now opened COVID-19 vaccination registration for residents of the Occupied Palestinian Territories. British nationals resident in the Occupied Palestinian Territories are eligible to receive a COVID-19 vaccine locally and should register on the Palestinian Ministry of Health vaccination website (in Arabic).
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in Israel or the Occupied Palestinian Territories, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
Further information on local guidance can be found on Israel’s Ministry of Health website and the Palestinian Authority Ministry of Health’s Facebook page (in Arabic).
