!
Warning
FCDO advises against all travel to parts of The Occupied Palestinian Territories.

This travel advice covers Israel and the Occupied Palestinian Territories (OPTs).
The Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) cannot provide tailored advice for individual trips. Read this travel advice and carry out your own research before deciding whether to travel.
Emergency services in Israel and the OPTs
Ambulance: 101
Fire: 102
Police: 100  
Contact your travel provider and insurer
Contact your travel provider and your insurer if you are involved in a serious incident or emergency abroad. They will tell you if they can help and what you need to do.
Refunds and changes to travel
For refunds or changes to travel, contact your travel provider. You may also be able to make a claim through insurance. However, insurers usually require you to talk to your travel provider first.
Find out more about changing or cancelling travel plans, including:
where to get advice if you are in a dispute with a provider
how to access previous versions of travel advice to support a claim
Support from FCDO
FCDO has guidance on staying safe and what to do if you need help or support abroad, including:
finding English-speaking lawyers in Israel and English-speaking lawyers in the OPTs
finding translators and interpreters in Israel and translators and interpreters in the OPTs
dealing with a death in Israel and the OPTs
being arrested or imprisoned in Israel and arrested or imprisoned in the OPTs
getting help if you’re a victim of crime
what to do if you’re in hospital
if you’re affected by a crisis, such as a terrorist attack
Contacting FCDO
Follow and contact FCDO travel on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram. You can also sign up to get email notifications when the Israel and OPTs travel advice pages are updated.
You can also contact FCDO online.
Help abroad in an emergency
If you’re in Israel or the OPTs and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the British Embassy in Tel Aviv.
FCDO in London
You can call FCDO in London if you need urgent help because something has happened to a friend or relative abroad.
Telephone: 020 7008 5000 (24 hours)
Find out about call charges
Risk information for British companies
The Overseas Business Risk service offers information and advice for British companies operating overseas in Israel and British companies operating overseas in the OPTs on how to manage political, economic, and business security-related risks.
