Most airlines have suspended or reduced flight operations to Tel Aviv Ben Gurion Airport. There are still some commercial options to return to the UK from Israel and the Occupied Palestinian Territories.
If you live in the UK and are currently visiting Israel or the Occupied Palestinian Territories, you are strongly advised to return now by commercial means. Do not risk getting stranded.
UK special charter flights will only operate for priority countries where commercial flights are not possible. You should not assume that these flights will become available in Israel or the Occupied Palestinian Territories because commercial routes are operating.
Flights
There are currently a very limited number of direct, one-off and indirect flights to the UK:
Wizz Air has resumed scheduled flights between Ben Gurion International Airport and London Luton Airport. Full details can be found on the Wizz Air website. Passengers should keep in touch with the airline for the latest information
El-Al is operating special passenger flights to London (via Paris) on Thursdays and Sundays. Full details can be found on the El-Al website
Israir Airlines continues to operate a number of one-off flights to European destinations. For further information, check the Israir Airlines website (in Hebrew only)
Check travel advice for any country that you will transit on the way back to the UK, as you may need to show proof of onward travel or complete additional documents. Transiting via Ben Gurion International Airport in order to travel on to other destinations is not currently permitted.
This travel advice will be updated when more departure options become available. Sign up for email alerts.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK.
For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Travelling to the airport
There are limited public transport services to Ben Gurion International Airport, and local taxis and minicabs can be arranged. You will need to comply with social distancing and health regulations when travelling to the airport. There are some restrictions on land crossings. See Land crossings
Your journey home: re-entering the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK. You:
need to provide your journey and contact details up to 48 hours before you’re due to arrive in the UK
are not allowed to leave the place you’re staying for the first 14 days you’re in the UK except in very limited situations (known as ‘self-isolating’)
See also the list of people who are exempt from the border rules.
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) also provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular support, contact the British Embassy Tel Aviv or the British Consulate General Jerusalem.
The Embassy and Consulate General cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone. This page will be updated when departure options become available. To get the latest information, sign up for travel advice email alerts.
If you cannot leave Israel or the Occupied Palestinian Territories
If you cannot leave Israel or the Occupied Palestinian Territories at this time, see advice on staying during coronavirus.
