Coronavirus guidance is being updated.
Read what you can and cannot do

This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in The Occupied Palestinian Territories as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in The Occupied Palestinian Territories to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in The Occupied Palestinian Territories
There are local travel restrictions in place in The Occupied Palestinian Territories.
Local measures
You should follow the guidance from Israel’s Ministry of Health and the Palestinian Authority, and be alert to local changes.
If you are a British National in Israel and are showing coronavirus related symptoms, please contact the Ministry of Health Hotline by dialling *5400 (when you hear the Hebrew message dial 2, 1, 2). After a short assessment you will be forwarded to a designated Magen David Adom (MDA) unit. MDA will coordinate a testing location with you.
Results for foreign nationals will be sent to the nearest Ministry of Health Unit. You should take note of how your name is spelt in Hebrew in the system as this will help with tracking results.
On 5 March 2020 the Palestinian Authority (PA) announced a state of emergency, including closure of educational institutions, reducing movement between cities, cancellation of public gatherings and conferences, and cancellation of tourism reservations and hotel bookings.
Health
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in The Occupied Palestinian Territories.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, you should contact your local British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephones numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
