!
Warning
FCDO advises against all travel to parts of The Occupied Palestinian Territories.

This travel advice covers Israel and the Occupied Palestinian Territories
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Israel and the Occupied Palestinian Territories
Terrorists are very likely to try to carry out attacks in Israel and the Occupied Palestinian Territories.
There was a large scale terrorist attack by Hamas into southern Israel on 7 October 2023. Hamas continues to launch rockets into Israel. There are ongoing Israeli air strikes into Gaza.
Terrorist attacks in Israel and the Occupied Palestinian Territories are very likely to continue with an increased threat of attacks, including by individuals acting alone.
Any attacks could be indiscriminate, including places visited by foreigners such as:
the Old City in Jerusalem
government, military and police installations
security personnel including military and police
transport networks
businesses with Western interests
crowded places
Areas where foreign nationals and tourists are known to gather may be at higher risk of attack. Stay aware of your surroundings, keep up to date with local media reports and follow the advice of local authorities.
Examples of recent significant attacks include:
In 2023:
2 people were killed and one  injured during a shooting attack in the Jordan Valley
one person was killed and 6 people  injured during a car-ramming incident in Tel Aviv
one person was killed and 3 people injured in a shooting attack in Tel Aviv
7 people were killed and 3 injured during a shooting attack in Neve Yaakov, East Jerusalem
In 2022:
2 people were killed and 22 people injured during 2 explosions in West Jerusalem
3 people were killed and 4 injured during a stabbing attack
2 Israelis were killed and 10 injured during a shooting attack in Tel Aviv
5 Israelis were killed in a terrorist shooting incident in Bne Brak
2 Israelis were killed and 4 injured in a terrorist shooting incident in Hadera
4 people were killed and 2 others injured in a ramming and stabbing incident in Ber Sheva
Terrorist kidnap
Terrorist kidnap is a risk in Gaza and along the border with Egypt. There is a large-scale conflict happening in areas of southern Israel close to the border with Gaza and Hamas has reportedly taken hostages across the border and into the Gaza.
British nationals are seen as legitimate targets, including tourists, humanitarian aid workers, journalists and business travellers. If you are kidnapped, the reason for your presence is unlikely to protect you or secure your safe release. 
The long-standing policy of the British government policy is not to make substantive concessions to hostage takers. The British government considers that paying ransoms and releasing prisoners builds the capability of terrorist groups and finances their activities. This can, in turn, increase the risk of further hostage-taking. The Terrorism Act (2000) makes payments to terrorists illegal.
