Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

Australia has put measures in place to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
For information on how to return to the UK from Australia, see Return to the UK
Entry restrictions
Only Australian citizens and returning permanent residents and their immediate family members are permitted to enter Australia without an exemption until further notice.
Travellers who have a compassionate or compelling reason to enter or transit through Australia can apply to the Australian authorities for an exemption via an online form. There are a limited number of categories for exemption. You should provide as much documentary evidence as you can to support your application for an exemption. For further information on the exemption categories and documentation required, see the Department of Home Affairs website on coming to Australia. Further information about transiting through Australia can be found below.
The Department of Home Affairs is experiencing high levels of demand for exemptions and there is no guarantee of either the timing of a decision or the outcome. You should make your application as early as possible and provide full supporting documentation.
There is currently a ban on international cruise ships docking at Australian ports.
Quarantine requirements
All travellers arriving in Australia are required to undertake a mandatory 14-day quarantine at a designated facility (for example a hotel) at their port of arrival. This is provided by the Australian government and is free of charge, except in the Northern Territory. You may face a range of penalties for non-compliance.
Transit
Almost all travellers seeking to transit through Australia need to apply for an exemption in advance. To transit, you will need to provide evidence that you have connecting flights booked in advance within a strict timeframe. You will also need a valid visa. See the Department of Home Affairs website for further details on transiting Australia, including the criteria for exemptions.
Those seeking to travel or transit on from Australia, should check the latest entry restrictions for your destination and keep in touch with your airline, cruise line or tour operator before you travel.
Departure from Australia: border restrictions
All Australian citizens, including British/Australian dual nationals, and British nationals who are permanent residents are restricted from leaving Australia without an exemption.
If you are a dual national or a permanent resident in Australia and have a compelling or compassionate reason to travel overseas, you need to apply for an exemption in advance from the Commissioner of the Australian Border Force. You should apply for an exemption as early as possible —at least 48 hours before your intended departure time.
Further details on categories for exemptions, the exemption application form, and the evidence you must provide to support your exemption application, can be found on the Department of Home Affairs website webpage on leaving Australia.
Travel within Australia
Travel between most States and Territories within Australia is now restricted to essential travel only. Many States and Territories are either closing their borders or require anybody moving across internal borders to self-isolate for 14 days. There are currently relatively few flights between States. If you need to travel, book in advance.
Individual States and Territories websites include information on current interstate travel restrictions. Western Australia and Queensland borders are currently temporarily closed – you will need to apply for an exemption to cross into them from elsewhere in Australia. Exemptions are not needed for air transit if the flight originated elsewhere in Australia (for example flying from one State to another domestically to connect to an international flight back to the UK). All arrivals into the Northern Territory (domestic and international) are expected to pay for designated accommodation during their 14 day mandatory quarantine at an estimated cost of $2,500 - $5000.
All States and Territories have restrictions on non-essential travel within them, with different levels of restrictions and enforcement. You should check the individual States and Territories websites for further information.
Visas
All tourist visitors to Australia are urged to return to their home countries as quickly as possible. The Australian government also advises other temporary visa holders who are unable to support themselves over the next six months to return home. You may also want to note the Australian Government’s announcement on 4 April of changes to arrangements for some visa categories.
If you’re unable to leave Australia and your visa is nearing expiry or has expired already, you should contact the Australian authorities as soon as possible. You cannot extend visas in Australia so you will need to apply for a new one to remain lawful. The type of visa you can apply for to remain in Australia depends largely on the type of visa you currently hold. For example, those on Visitor visas would be expected to apply for new Visitor visas.
Detailed information about visa options and how to apply for a new one is available from the Department of Home Affairs Covid-19 webpage on visas. More detail for temporary visa holders, including visitors, students and working holiday makers can be found on their frequently asked questions webpage
Local social distancing measures
The Australian authorities have introduced a number of social distancing measures which are detailed on the Department of Health website. These are liable to change at short notice. You should monitor the website and comply with these measures and other advice from State and Territory authorities.
The measures include:
the closure of non-essential services and places of public gathering, including clubs, nightclubs, cinemas, casinos, gyms, playgrounds, churches and the licensed areas of pubs. Restaurants and cafes are now take away only.
a ban on non-essential gatherings of more than 2 people
all members of the public are to keep at least 1.5m distance from others;
restrictions on entering aged care homes
advice to avoid non-essential travel and to stay at home unless absolutely necessary (essential shopping, medical needs, exercise where compliant with public gathering requirements, work or study if these can’t be done remotely).
Supermarkets, banks, petrol stations, pharmacies, freight/logistics, food delivery, and most shops are considered to provide essential services and are currently exempt. Public transport is also deemed essential and is not currently affected, but this could change quickly.
Health/medical care
Information on Australia’s response to COVID-19, including guidance on self-isolation, is available from the Australian Government Department of Health website and the Australian Government coronovaris website If you’re in Australia and are concerned that you may have coronavirus symptoms you should isolate yourself and call the Coronavirus Health Information Line on 1800 020 080. If you have serious symptoms such as shortness of breath you should call 000 for urgent medical help. You should also check the latest information from the State and Territory authorities:
Australian Capital Territory
New South Wales
Northern Territory
Queensland
South Australia
Tasmania
Victoria
Western Australia
While you are in Australia, you can access essential and urgent medical care through the UK-Australia Reciprocal Healthcare Agreement. Guidance of what is covered can be found here.
Essential and urgent hospital treatment is free. There is a charge to visit GPs and receive prescriptions. Some of these costs can be recovered through Medicare – Australia’s universal health insurance scheme. To enrol with Medicare visit the Services Australia website.
You should also check your travel insurance, which may cover the full sum of your treatment or prescriptions. The Association of British Insurers has confirmed leading travel insurers will look to extend cover of emergency medical treatment for a up to a minimum of 60 days for customers who are currently stuck overseas and trying to return home. This article provides additional detail.
If you are concerned about seeking medical treatment in person, many clinics offer distance or online services to avoid face-to-face contact. A directory of clinics/GP’s that offer this service can be found here. Please note this is not an official government directory as there is no Federal level directory for Australia.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
