This page has information on travelling to Australia. Check what you must do to return to the UK.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport from the UK, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Australia set and enforce entry rules. For further information contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to. You should also consider checking with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
All travellers
To enter Australia, you must hold a valid passport, a valid visa, and a completed and signed Incoming Passenger Card. Incoming Passenger Cards are distributed during your flight to Australia by your airline. For more information about visas, see “check your passport and travel documents” section below.
COVID-19 requirements
Evidence of a negative COVID-19 test is currently required for all travellers to Australia, whether or not they are vaccinated. This can be a negative PCR test taken within 3 days of scheduled departure, or a negative Rapid Antigen Test taken under medical supervision within 24 hours of scheduled departure. If your flight is delayed, you will be considered to meet pre-departure testing requirements provided your test is within the correct period for the scheduled departure time of your flight. If your flight is rescheduled or cancelled, you may need to take another COVID-19 test. You can find further information about pre-departure testing from the Australian Department of Health. Pre-departure testing requirements will be removed for all passengers arriving or transiting Australia from 18 April 2022.
All travellers to Australia, regardless of their vaccination status, must also complete a Digital Passenger Declaration (DPD). You can complete your DPD via the iOS app, the Android app, or the online form on the Department of Home Affairs website. You can start your DPD seven days before your flight and submit it within 72 hours prior to your departure for Australia. The DPD includes a declaration regarding your COVID-19 vaccination status and other health information. You may be asked to provide evidence you have completed your DPD when checking in for your flight to Australia. For further information, see the Department of Home Affairs website.
States and territories can apply their own travel restrictions on travellers arriving from international and domestic locations. You should check requirements for the state or territory in which you will arrive. Border rules, including eligibility criteria, can change quickly. Travellers should prepare for disruptions to their plans.
Quarantine requirements
Each state and territory is responsible for determining and managing quarantine requirements. You should check requirements for the state or territory in which you will arrive.
Travellers will need to comply with the quarantine requirements in the state or territory of arrival before travelling on to another state or territory.
If you’re fully vaccinated
All fully vaccinated visa holders can travel to Australia. You can check the Australian Government’s definition of ‘fully vaccinated’ for travel on the Australian Department of Home Affairs website.
Proof of vaccination status
You must present proof that you have been fully vaccinated to enter Australia.
If you were vaccinated in Australia, you should use an International COVID-19 Vaccine Certificate (ICVC) generated by Services Australia. If you were vaccinated outside of Australia, you can use a foreign vaccination certificate. See the requirements for foreign vaccination certificates from the Australian Department of Health. The NHS COVID pass does meet Australia’s requirements.
If you’re not fully vaccinated
Unvaccinated temporary visa holders, or temporary visa holders who do not meet Australia’s definition of fully vaccinated for travel, will need a valid travel exemption to enter Australia. Exemption applications can be submitted online on the Australian Department of Home Affairs website, which also lists the travel exemption categories. People with Australian citizenship or permanent residency status do not require an exemption to enter Australia.
Unvaccinated travellers must also meet the testing and DPD requirements outlined above.
Unvaccinated travellers may be subject to quarantine requirements in the state or territory of arrival. You should check requirements for the state or territory in which you will arrive.
Children and young people
For entry into Australia, regardless of their actual vaccination status, children are considered fully vaccinated travellers for entry purposes if:
They are 11 years old or under, or;
They are aged 12 to 17 years and are travelling with at least one adult who is fully vaccinated
Anyone aged 18 years or older is considered an adult.
You can find more information about arrangements for children travelling to Australia on the Department of Home Affairs website.
Quarantine and self-isolation rules after entry into Australia are managed by state and territory authorities. Some states require partially vaccinated or unvaccinated children aged 12 to 17 years to self-isolate even if they are accompanied by fully vaccinated adult travellers.
If children are accompanied by unvaccinated adult travellers, the entire family group may be required to quarantine and will generally be subject to passenger cap limits for unvaccinated travellers. Travellers should always check the requirements of the state or territory they plan to travel to, or transit through, prior to arranging their travel.
For entry into Australia, children aged 4 years and younger at the time of check-in for the flight to Australia do not need to provide a pre-departure COVID-19 test to enter Australia. Until 18 April 2022, children who are aged 5 years and older must provide evidence of a negative test, as outlined in the ‘All Travellers” section above. You should check if COVID-19 testing requirements are different for any transit countries you will pass through on the way to Australia.
If you’re transiting through Australia
Passengers transiting through Australia must complete a Digital Passenger Declaration. Until 18 April 2022, passengers transiting through Australia must also take a pre-departure COVID-19 test.
British citizens are eligible to transit through Australia for a maximum of 8 hours without a vi-sa. If you wish to transit without a visa, you must remain airside and you will not be able to clear immigration, including to collect baggage which should have been checked through to your final destination. You can check information from the Department of Home Affairs on transiting without a visa. If you are not eligible to transit without a visa, for example if your transit time is longer than 8 hours, you will need to apply for and obtain a visa before travel-ling to Australia.
If you plan to transit Australia, check the latest entry restrictions for your destination and keep in touch with your airline, cruise line or tour operator before you travel.
Exemptions
Unvaccinated temporary visa holders, or temporary visa holders who do not meet Australia’s definition of fully vaccinated for travel, will need a valid travel exemption to enter Australia. Exemption applications can be submitted online on the Australian Department of Home Affairs website. People with Australian citizenship or permanent residency status do not require an exemption to enter Australia.
Applications for exemptions from quarantine requirements must be granted by state or territory health departments. You should contact the health department of the state or territory in which you will arrive for further advice.
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
Regular entry requirements
Visas
Subject to current restrictions, British citizens can usually get the following types of electronic visitor visa:
eVisitor visa direct from the Department of Home Affairs. There is no visa application charge or service fee for this
Electronic Travel Authority (ETA) via your travel agent or airline. There is no visa application charge, but a service fee of A$20 applies
Information on all other types of visa is available from the Department of Home Affairs, or from the Australian High Commission in London.
If you hold an ePassport you can use SmartGate to pass through passport control when arriving in Australia. See the Australian Border Force website for more information.
Working holiday visa
If you’re on a working holiday visa you should be aware of your rights as an employee in Australia and how to report any concerns about unfair or unlawful treatment.
Thousands of British working holiday makers travel to Australia each year with the vast majority enjoying their stay without issue. Working conditions, accommodation and medical facilities are generally of a good standard.
In October 2016 the Fair Work Ombudsman published a report following an inquiry into the wages and conditions of people working under the working holiday visa program, which highlighted exploitative workplace cultures where unreasonable and unlawful requirements were being imposed in some isolated and remote workplaces. If you have concerns about your workplace conditions or treatment you can contact the Fair Work Ombudsman on 13 13 94. You can also report concerns to them anonymously.
If you feel you’re being treated unfairly or unlawfully by an employer, you can email the UK’s National Crime Agency (NCA) at the British High Commission in Canberra at: Australia.WHVreferrals@fcdo.gov.uk. The NCA is working with a number of Australian authorities to help identify and address any illegal employer behaviour affecting British nationals.
For further information and advice, see our working holiday makers booklet.
Visas during COVID-19
According to the Australian Department of Home Affairs, there may be disruptions to visa processing arrangements during the COVID-19 pandemic. You can review global visa processing times on the Department of Home Affairs website.
If you’re unable to leave Australia and your visa is nearing expiry or has expired already, you should contact the Australian Department of Home Affairs as soon as possible. Australia does not issue visa extensions so you will need to apply for a new visa to remain lawful in Australia, and provide relevant supporting documentation. If your visa is expiring or has expired, you can follow the advice from the Department of Home Affairs.
You can find more information about visas for Australia, including visa options that may suit your needs, on the Department of Home Affairs website.
Passport validity
For entry into Australia, your passport should be valid for the proposed duration of your stay. No additional period of validity beyond this is needed.
If you’re transiting another country on your way to or from Australia, make sure you check the entry requirements for that country. Many countries will only permit entry if you have at least 6 months validity remaining on your passport.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents are valid for entry into, transit through, and exit from Australia.
Dual nationals
If you’re a British national living in Australia with Australian citizenship, or you’re a dual national, you should leave and enter Australia on your Australian passport, otherwise you may face difficulties and delays. For more information, see the Department of Foreign Affairs & Trade’s website. Please see the Coronavirus page for more information on current restrictions on dual nationals leaving Australia.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
Returning to the UK
Check what you must do to return to the UK.
Leaving Australia
For full details on leaving Australia, please refer to the Australian Government Department of Home Affairs website.
Fully vaccinated Australian citizens and permanent residents no longer require an exemption to depart Australia. Australian citizens and permanent residents who are unvaccinated (apart from those under 12 and those who cannot be vaccinated for medical reasons) must apply for an exemption to depart Australia.
Temporary visa holders, regardless of COVID-19 vaccination status, do not need an exemption to depart Australia. As of 21 February, fully vaccinated visa holders will be able to enter Australia without obtaining an exemption. See ‘Entry to Australia’
