Bushfires
Be aware of the risk of bushfires, especially at the height of the Australian summer (November to February). Bushfires can start and change direction with little or no notice. If you’re travelling in a high risk bushfire area, follow local authorities’ advice.
Australia regularly battles devastating bushfires across a number of regions during the summer season. The 2019-2020 summer fires resulted in the loss of lives and property with many residents advised to evacuate their homes.
If you’re in or near an affected area, stay safe and follow the advice of local authorities:
Australian Capital Territory Fire and Rescue
New South Wales Rural Fire Service and ‘Fires Near Me’ app
Northern Territory Fire and Rescue Service
Queensland Fire & Emergency Services
South Australian Country Fire Service
Tasmania Fire Service
Victorian Country Fire Authority
Western Australia Department of Fire and Emergency Services.
In the event of emergency, always dial Triple Zero (000).
A Fire Danger Rating system operates across Australia indicating the possible consequences of a fire, if one were to start. The highest rating of ‘Catastrophic’ has been issued in several locations.
Smoke generated by bush fires can result in poor air quality, which could provoke respiratory conditions. Smoke can often accumulate many kilometres from the fire, including in urban areas and major cities. Most State and Territory governments provide detailed information on the monitoring of air quality and useful advice if you’re unable to avoid being in a smoke affected area:
Australian Capital Territory
New South Wales
Northern Territory
Queensland
South Australia
Tasmania
Victoria
Western Australia
Flooding
Heavy rain and tropical cyclones can cause flooding, including flash floods in some areas. The Bureau of Meteorology issues weather warnings including Flood Warning Services.
Follow local media and in an emergency dial triple zero (000).
Tropical cyclones
Tropical cyclones occur in some parts of Australia, mainly Queensland, Northern Territory and Western Australia. The Cyclone season normally runs from November to April.
Monitor local and international weather updates from the World Meteorological Organisation (WMO) and the Australian Bureau of Meteorology website for updates. See our Tropical cyclones page for advice about what to do if you’re caught up in a storm.
Dust storms
Dust storms occur regularly in Australia, usually only in outback areas.
Earthquakes
Whilst a rare occurrence in Australia, earthquakes can happen. Follow the advice of the local authorities and emergency services in the event of a natural disaster.
