Commercial flights remain available to return to the UK from Australia.
If you live in the UK and are currently visiting Australia, you should return now by commercial flights. Don’t run the risk of getting stranded.
UK special charter flights will only operate for priority countries where commercial flights are not available. You should not assume that these flights will become available in countries where commercial routes are operating.
Flights
The following airlines are advising that they are operating routes to the UK:
Cathay Pacific, via Hong Kong:
One flight weekly from Melbourne
Two flights weekly from Sydney
You can book via the Cathay Pacific website
Emirates, via Dubai:
One flight per week from Brisbane
Three flights per week from Melbourne
One flight per week from Perth
Three flights per week from Sydney
You can book via the Emirates website or by phone from Australia on 1300 303 777.
Etihad, via Abu Dhabi:
One flight per week from Melbourne
One flight per week from Sydney
You can book via the Etihad website, or by phone from Australia on 1300 532 215, or through a travel agent.
Qatar Airways, via Doha
One flight daily from Sydney
One flight daily from Melbourne
Four flights per week from Perth
Three flights per week from Brisbane
You can book via the Qatar website, or by phone from Australia on 1300 340 600 option 1. The code TRAVELHOME will give you 10% off for flights in June, including one-way flights.
Singapore Airlines has also resumed a limited schedule of flights from Australia to the UK from Adelaide, Brisbane, Melbourne, Perth (on Scoot) and Sydney. Special transit arrangements are in place in Singapore Changi Airport to allow passengers to connect to onward flights. Transfers are only allowed between flights in the SIA Group (Singapore Airlines, Silk Air and Scoot). See their website for further details.
You should check individual airline websites and contact the airline directly for the latest information on all routes, including restrictions around transits and health measures put in place by airlines and at airports.
British Airways and Qantas are amongst other airlines which have currently temporarily suspended through flights between the UK and Australia.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Travelling to your international airport
If you are already in Australia, you may travel by air to another Australian State to transit to an international flight as long as you hold a confirmed booking for that flight. You do not need to seek an exemption. You will be required to stay within the airport for the duration of your transit, or if transiting overnight, you will need to self-isolate in a hotel. In Western Australia, your transit time must be no more than 24 hours.
Qantas, Virgin Australia and Jetstar are running a limited schedule of domestic flights within Australia. Tigerair has currently suspended their domestic flights.
There are currently no restrictions if you are travelling by road to an airport within the same State but you may need to provide proof of your onward international travel. Some States require you to apply for an exemption to cross their borders. Given the fast changing situation, you should check State and Territory websites for the latest information. Links can be found on the Australian Government Coronavirus website.
If you are an Australian citizen or permanent resident
All Australian citizens and British nationals who are permanent residents in Australia cannot leave Australia without an exemption.
If you are a British/Australian dual national who is ordinarily resident in a country outside Australia, you do not require an exemption to leave Australia. You should be ready to show evidence that you normally reside outside Australia if requested by authorities on departure at the airport.
If you a permanent resident in Australia and have a compelling or compassionate reason to travel overseas, you need to apply for an exemption in advance from the Commissioner of the Australian Border Force. You should apply for an exemption as early as possible - at least 48 hours before your intended departure time. Further details on categories for exemptions, the exemption application form, and the evidence you must provide to support your exemption application, can be found on the Department of Home Affairs website.
Your journey home: re-entering the UK
When you return, you must follow the rules for entering the UK. You:
need to provide your journey and contact details up to 48 hours before you’re due to arrive in the UK
are not allowed to leave the place you’re staying for the first 14 days you’re in the UK except in very limited situations (known as ‘self-isolating’)
See also the list of people who are exempt from the border rules.
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) also provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
If you cannot leave Australia
See more information and advice about staying in Australia during coronavirus
Help and support
Sign up for email alerts for updates to this travel advice.
The British High Commission in Canberra is also issuing regular updates on Twitter and Facebook with information on flight departure options for British nationals wishing to leave Australia.
