

Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.   
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Australia
Terrorists are likely to try to carry out attacks in Australia.
Attacks could be indiscriminate, including in places visited by foreign nationals. You should be vigilant, keep up to date with local media reports and follow the advice of local authorities.
In April 2024, several people were injured in a terrorist incident at a church in Wakeley, Sydney.   
See the Australian government’s national terrorism threat level.
Crime
Protecting your belongings
Take precautions to protect yourself from petty crime, including:
not leaving your bag or luggage unattended
keeping luggage out of sight in cars
keeping valuables and passport in a hotel safe
leaving copies of important documents with family and friends in the UK
carrying a photocopy of your passport for ID
being particularly careful at night in busy tourist areas
Scams
There are many different types of scams targeting people in or travelling to Australia, including dating and romance scams, websites offering fake services or building repair scams. You can check current scams or report your concerns about a scam on the government’s scamwatch website.
Laws and cultural differences
Personal ID
You can reduce the risk of losing your passport by carrying a proof of age card – this could be a driving licence or a student ID. This is accepted ID for many services like opening a bank account or entering licensed premises.
Smoking and e-cigarette laws      
Laws on smoking and e-cigarettes (vapes) differ between states. The Australian government is reviewing laws, so the rules may change. You must have a prescription to buy e-cigarettes containing liquid nicotine. There are strict rules on importing vaping goods.
In all states it is illegal to smoke in enclosed public spaces. Get local advice on any restrictions, and see smoking and tobacco laws in Australia.
Alcohol
Some drinks served in bars in Australia can be stronger than those in the UK. Alcohol and drugs can lead to you being less alert, less in control and less aware of your environment.     
Illegal drugs and prison sentences
The Australian authorities act against anyone who imports or traffics illegal drugs. Prosecution can lead to a lengthy prison sentence and deportation.
LGBT+ travellers
Same-sex marriages are legally recognised. Australia is generally open-minded about homosexuality, but there are isolated incidents of homophobic crime. Visit Gay Australia is a useful travel planning resource alongside LGBT+ information from the Australian Human Rights Commission.
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Mobile phones
The mobile phone network generally works well in cities and large towns, but coverage elsewhere can be very limited or non-existent. If you’re travelling to remote areas, check with your phone provider about coverage. You can use your UK mobile phone in Australia if global roaming has been activated, but making and receiving calls can be expensive. Many visitors prefer to buy an Australian SIM card on arrival.
You can use any Telstra public payphone to make free phone calls to Australian numbers. Free wifi is also available at some payphones around the country.
Working holidays 
If you’re in Australia on a working holiday visa, the Fair Work Ombudsman website has information about:
your rights as an employee in Australia
how to report any concerns about unfair or unlawful treatment online – you can also call 131 394
Different tax rules and rates apply to residents and non-residents. Working holidaymakers are usually regarded as non-resident for tax purposes. This means they do not qualify for any tax-free personal allowance on earnings. Get guidance from the Australian Taxation Office.
See information for people working in Australia.
Outdoor activities and adventure tourism
Swimming safety
Rip currents are the main hazard for all swimmers and surfers. They can happen at any beach and can sweep even the strongest swimmer out to sea.
Follow guidance on beach safety in Australia and tips from Surf Life Saving Australia.
British nationals have been injured diving into water that was too shallow. Make sure there is sufficient depth of water before diving, and always follow warning signs.
Diving and snorkelling safety
Snorkelling accidents can happen and have sometimes been fatal.
You are required by law to complete a medical declaration for diving or snorkelling at a resort. For your own health and safety, you must be truthful about any medical conditions you have.
Dangerous wildlife
Australia has many dangerous animal species. There are crocodiles, jellyfish, sharks, venomous insects, spiders and snakes in many parts of the country.
See Beachsafe’s information on dangerous marine creatures.
Walking and hiking   
If you’re planning to walk or hike, research the area you’re visiting and prepare for the terrain and weather, including intense heat. It can take hours to get help in an emergency in the bush or national parks. There is advice on bush safety on each state or territory’s government website. See:
New South Wales
Queensland
Victoria
Western Australia
Northern Territory
South Australia
Tasmania
Transport risks
Road travel
If you are planning to drive in Australia, see information on driving abroad.
You can use a UK photocard driving licence to drive in Australia if you remain a temporary overseas visitor. If you still have a paper driving licence, you may need to update it to a photocard licence or get the 1949 version of the international driving permit (IDP) as well. 
If you plan to stay in Australia and have a permanent visa, you can drive using your UK licence for up to 3 months. To continue driving, you must get an Australian licence within this 3-month period.
Driving laws and regulations differ in each state and territory. Driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs is illegal. The penalties can be severe. You must always wear a seat belt. See the Australian Road Rules. 
You must carry your driving licence and passport when driving. Make sure you have sufficient insurance, including if you borrow a car from a friend or relative.
Hire cars
Hire car companies often have stricter requirements for their customers, such as a year of driving experience, a higher minimum age and holding an IDP.
If you’re hiring a car immediately on arrival, be cautious about driving. You might be jetlagged and tired from your flight. Take regular rest breaks at the many rest stops on the roads.
Hire car insurance often does not cover driving on unsurfaced roads. Check your policy before you set off.
Road conditions
Australia is known for having large distances between towns and amenities.
To reduce your risk:
make sure you have enough water before travelling
tell someone about your plans
check road conditions before starting
stay with your vehicle if it breaks down
check the weather forecast – avoid travelling in extreme heat or severe weather
Sudden storms and strong winds can make driving difficult.
Take particular care when driving on unsurfaced roads, 4-wheel-drive tracks and desert or beach roads. Northern Territory Police have warned tourists to stay off unsurfaced tracks in remote areas of Central Australia, following reports of stranded motorists.
Driving in the outback
Prepare thoroughly if driving in remote outback areas, which can present unexpected hazards. To reduce your risk:
take a roadworthy vehicle fitted with GPS and 2 spare tyres
take good maps and extra food, water and fuel
plan your route carefully and get local advice before you set out
leave your route details and expected time of return with the local tourist authorities, police, your hotel or hostel, or friends and relatives, and let them know when you’ve arrived safely
Driving on K’gari (Fraser Island)
Following a number of serious accidents, all vehicles on K’gari (Fraser Island) must not drive faster than 80km/h on beaches and 30km/h in towns. Four-wheel-drive vehicles must have no more than 8 occupants, including the driver. You must store all luggage inside the vehicle.
Avoid driving at night and be aware of beach hazards like ditches created by the surf. K’gari is remote and emergency services can take many hours to reach an accident. Carry a well-stocked first-aid kit and personal medication as there is no pharmacy on the island. The Queensland government has more information on keeping safe in K’gari.
Extreme weather and natural disasters
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards. 
Bushfires
Be aware of the risk of bushfires, especially at the height of the Australian summer from November to February. Bushfires can start and change direction very suddenly.
Australia regularly battles devastating bushfires during the summer season. Previous fires resulted in the loss of lives and property with many residents advised to evacuate their homes.
If you’re in or near an affected area, follow the advice of local authorities:
Australian Capital Territory Fire and Rescue
New South Wales Rural Fire Service and ‘Fires Near Me’ app
Northern Territory Fire and Rescue Service
Queensland Fire and Emergency Services
South Australian Country Fire Service
Tasmania Fire Service
Victoria’s Country Fire Authority
Western Australia Department of Fire and Emergency Services
Bushfires can cause poor air quality and aggravate respiratory conditions. Smoke can accumulate far from a fire, including in urban areas and major cities. If you’re unable to avoid smoke affected areas, most state and territory governments monitor air quality and give advice:
Australian Capital Territory
New South Wales
Northern Territory
Queensland
South Australia
Tasmania
Victoria
Western Australia
Flooding
Heavy rain and tropical cyclones can cause flooding, including flash floods in some areas. You can get flood warnings from the Bureau of Meteorology. Check local media reports.
Significant weather events can happen suddenly. Spillways, flood plains and drains can quickly become submerged.
The local authorities may issue stay-at-home or leave-now orders. Always follow the advice of local authorities.
More information can be found on the relevant state and territory websites:
Australian Capital Territory
New South Wales
Northern Territory
Queensland
South Australia
Tasmania
Victoria
Western Australia
Earthquakes
While rare in Australia, earthquakes can happen. Follow the advice of the local authorities and emergency services in the event of a natural disaster.
Dust storms
Dust storms happen regularly in Australia, usually only in outback areas. Follow the advice of local authorities.
Heatwaves
Extreme heat is a serious risk in Australia. See the Australian Red Cross’s information on heatstroke and heat exhaustion.
Tropical cyclones
Tropical cyclones affect some parts of Australia, mainly Queensland, Northern Territory and Western Australia. The cyclone season normally runs from November to April.
Monitor local and international weather updates from the World Meteorological Organization and the Australian Bureau of Meteorology.
