Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Australia as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Australia to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Australia
Travel between most States and Territories within Australia is now restricted to essential travel only. Many States and Territories are either closing their borders or require anybody moving across internal borders to self-isolate for 14 days. There are currently relatively few flights between States. If you need to travel, book in advance.
Individual States and Territories websites provide information on current interstate travel restrictions.
Western Australia and Queensland borders are currently temporarily closed – you will need to apply for an exemption to cross into them from elsewhere in Australia. Exemptions are not needed for air transit if the flight originated elsewhere in Australia (for example flying from one State to another domestically to connect to an international flight back to the UK). All arrivals into the Northern Territory (domestic and international) are expected to pay for designated accommodation during their 14 day mandatory quarantine at an estimated cost of $2,500 - $5000.
All States and Territories have restrictions on non-essential travel within them, with different levels of restrictions and enforcement. You should check the individual States and Territories websites for further information.
Local social distancing measures
Social distancing measures are still in place across Australia with a number of variations. These are liable to change at short notice. You should monitor the Department of Health website and State and Territory websites for the latest information and comply with these measures and other advice from local authorities.
Measures currently include:
the closure of non-essential services and places of public gathering, including clubs, nightclubs, cinemas, casinos, gyms, playgrounds, churches and the licensed areas of pubs. Restaurants and cafes are now take away only
a ban on most non-essential gatherings of more than 2 people
all members of the public are to keep at least 1.5m distance from others
restrictions on entering aged care homes
advice to avoid non-essential travel and to stay at home unless for shopping, medical needs, exercise where compliant with public gathering requirements, work or study if these can’t be done remotely.
Supermarkets, banks, petrol stations, pharmacies, freight/logistics, food delivery, and most shops are considered to provide essential services and are currently exempt. Public transport is also deemed essential and is not currently affected, but this could change quickly.
Visas
The Australian government advises all tourist visitors to Australia to return to their home country as quickly as possible. It also advises other temporary visa holders who are unable to support themselves over the next 6 months to return home. See the Australian Government’s announcement on 4 April of changes to arrangements for some visa categories.
If you’re unable to leave Australia and your visa is nearing expiry or has expired already, you should contact the Australian authorities as soon as possible. You cannot extend visas in Australia so you will need to apply for a new one to stay. The type of visa you currently have will determine what type of visa you can apply for. If you’re on a Visitor visa, you should apply for a new Visitor visa.
Detailed information about visa options and how to apply is available from the Department of Home Affairs Covid-19 webpage on visas. More detail for temporary visa holders, including visitors, students and working holiday makers can be found on their frequently asked questions webpage.
Health
For contact details for doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Australia.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Coronavirus
Information on Australia’s response to COVID-19, including guidance on self-isolation, is available from the Australian Government Department of Health website and the Australian Government coronovaris website.
If you’re in Australia and are concerned that you may have coronavirus symptoms, you should isolate yourself and call the Coronavirus Health Information Line on 1800 020 080. If you have serious symptoms such as shortness of breath you should call 000 for urgent medical help.
Check the latest information from the State and Territory authorities:
Australian Capital Territory
New South Wales
Northern Territory
Queensland
South Australia
Tasmania
Victoria
Western Australia
While you are in Australia, you can access essential and urgent medical care through the UK-Australia Reciprocal Healthcare Agreement. Guidance of what is covered can be found on the NHS website.
Essential and urgent hospital treatment is free. There is a charge to visit GPs and receive prescriptions. Some of these costs can be recovered through Medicare – Australia’s universal health insurance scheme. To enrol with Medicare visit the Services Australia website.
You should also check your travel insurance, which may cover the full sum of your treatment or prescriptions.
If you are concerned about seeking medical treatment in person, many clinics offer distance or online services to avoid face-to-face contact. A directory of clinics/GP’s that offer this service can be found on the Online Doctors Directory. Please note this is not an official government directory as there is no Federal level directory for Australia.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
