Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

Coronavirus: stay up to date
Cases of coronavirus (COVID-19) have been confirmed in Australia. See information on measures introduced in Australia to limit the spread of the virus. Find out how to return to the UK from Australia.
See coronavirus travel advice for guidance on international travel.
Sign up for email alerts for Australian travel advice.
British nationals in Australia looking to return to the UK are advised to register their details on the British High Commission’s registration site. This will help us in our work with airlines to keep commercial routes open and to alert you to airline advice on flight options. You may add additional details including on your location and if you are an NHS doctor or critical worker. We are also issuing regular updates on Twitter and Facebook with the latest available information from airlines on flight departure options for British nationals wishing to leave Australia.
As part of measures taken in Australia to prevent the spread of coronavirus, all Australian citizens (including dual nationals) and British nationals who are permanent residents are restricted from travelling overseas from Australia. If you are dual national or a permanent resident and have a compelling or compassionate reason to travel overseas, you need to apply for an exemption in advance from the Commissioner of the Australian Border Force. Further details and the exemption application form can be found on the Department of Home Affairs website. For more information, see Coronavirus
Only Australian citizens and returning permanent residents and their immediate family members are permitted to enter Australia until further notice. Travellers who have a compassionate or compelling reason to enter or transit through Australia can apply to the Australian authorities. A mandatory 14-day quarantine requirement is in place for all international arrivals. Many states and territories within Australia are either closing their borders or require travellers moving across internal borders seek exemptions and self-isolate. For more information, see Coronavirus
Notwithstanding the current temporary border restrictions announced by the Australian Government, over 700,000 British nationals visit Australia every year. Most visits are trouble-free.
Australia is a vast country. You should plan journeys carefully, particularly if you’re travelling to remote areas, bushwalking or going swimming. See Local travel
Australia is prone to seasonal natural disasters including tropical cyclones, flash flooding, dust storms and bushfires (forest fires). Tropical cyclones occur mainly in Queensland, Northern Territory and Western Australia between November and April. You should monitor the progress of approaching storms and follow the advice of local authorities, including the state emergency services and the Bureau of Meteorology. See Natural disasters
You’ll need to get a visa before you travel. See Visas
If you’re on a working holiday visa you should be aware of your rights as employees in Australia and how to report any concerns about unfair or unlawful treatment. See Working holiday visas
Terrorists are likely to try to carry out attacks in Australia. Australia’s current national terrorism threat level is ‘probable’ (see the Australian national terrorism threat advisory system. Attacks could be indiscriminate, including in places visited by foreigners. You should be vigilant and take sensible precautions. See Terrorism
Take out comprehensive travel and medical insurance before you travel. Make sure this covers you for all activities you plan to do while in Australia, including manual labour if you’re backpacking; and adventure sports like bungee jumping, diving and paragliding.
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.
The Overseas Business Risk service offers information and advice for British companies operating overseas on how to manage political, economic, and business security-related risks.
