

Bushfires
Australian authorities have advised that there is an increased risk of bushfires for large areas of the country from now and throughout summer 2024/2025 . Be aware of the risks and follow the advice of local states and territories on what you should do to prepare for and how to respond to any emergency.
See our advice on the Safety and security page.
Tropical cyclone Alfred
Tropical cyclones affect some parts of Australia, mainly Queensland, Northern Territory and Western Australia. The cyclone season normally runs from November to April.
Tropical cyclone Alfred is forecast to bring adverse weather to Brisbane, the Sunshine Coast, Gold Coast, South East Queensland and Northern New South Wales from Wednesday 5 March. This could result in localised flash flooding and severe coastal hazards which could lead to transport disruption and power outages.  
You should monitor weather updates and follow the advice of local authorities:
Australian Bureau of Meteorology
Get Ready Queensland
Disaster Management Queensland
New South Wales State Emergency Services
Brisbane City Council – Tropical Cyclone Alfred
Gold Coast City Council Dashboard Alerts
Sunshine Coast Council Disaster Hub
Before you travel
No travel can be guaranteed safe. Read all the advice in this guide. You may also find it helpful to: 
see general advice for women travellers
read our guide on disability and travel abroad
see general advice for LGBT+ travellers
read about safety for solo and independent travel
see advice on volunteering and adventure travel abroad
Travel insurance
If you choose to travel, research your destinations and get appropriate travel insurance. Insurance should cover your itinerary, planned activities and expenses in an emergency.
About FCDO travel advice
The Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) provides advice about risks of travel to help you make informed decisions. Find out more about FCDO travel advice.
Get travel advice updates
Sign up to get email notifications when this travel advice is updated.
Follow FCDO:   
travel advice on X
travel advice on Facebook
Travel Aware on Instagram
