Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Belize on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
Commercial flights to and from Belize remain limited. Check with your travel company for the latest information. See Return to the UK
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Belize.
Returning to the UK
Travelling from and returning to the UK
Check what you must do to travel abroad and return to England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
If you plan to pass through another country to return to the UK, check the travel advice for the country you’re transiting. If you will pass through a red list country, book your hotel quarantine package before travelling to the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements. You should contact local authorities for information on testing facilities. See Healthcare in Belize for further information.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes that may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Belize
Regulations remain in force to prevent, control, contain and suppress the spread of coronavirus. The Government of Belize has announced a nationwide curfew to prevent the spread of COVID-19 until further notice. The curfew is active from Sunday to Thursday 10pm to 4am the following morning and from Friday to Saturday 11pm to 4am the following morning for adults and 6pm to 4am for minors every day.
Regular updates are made to the Statutory Instruments that set out the COVID regulations. Updates to these regulations can be found on the requirements in Belize can be found on the Government of Belize website.
The Belize authorities will be strictly enforcing the statutory instrument measures, including for:
Not social distancing
Not wearing of masks
Public transport, public services and commercial companies being held accountable for customers who do not adhere to the law in their establishments.
Entering Belize illegally
Caught with contraband goods from those who entered Belize illegally.
Bribing any member of the security forces
Members of the security forces extorting money from individuals
If you violate these measures, you will be returned to your port of entry at your own expense. If you cannot be returned immediately, you will be placed into mandatory quarantine at a government-designated facility, which may be at your own expense.
Tourism
Belize land and sea borders have reopened to foreign tourists who wish to visit Belize for recreation and vacation purposes only. A Tourism Gold Standard program has been specifically developed for hotels, restaurants, tour operators and other relevant businesses to enhance their health and safety standards.
Before travelling, you must book an approved Gold Standard accommodation for a minimum of 3 nights’ stay and present confirmation on arrival.
Tourists can move around freely in Belize but are highly encouraged to remain within the safety corridor and use Gold Standard restaurants, tour sights, gift shops and certified transportation.
If you develop Covid-like symptoms during your stay, you should immediately notify your hotel’s front desk and they will implement their Covid Response Plan. If you test positive, you will be required to enter mandatory quarantine for a minimum of 14 days, at your own expense. Hotels and resorts offer special rates to facilitate guests who must quarantine.
Further information can is available from the Belize Tourism Board, Travel Belize or Belize Port Authority.
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Belize. You may need to quarantine, subject to testing, at your own expense.
All tourists must comply with the current Statutory Instrument. See Travel in Belize.
Public spaces and services
The wearing of face masks and social distancing is mandatory at all times. Public transport is running with 75% seated capacity. Public services have also resumed and commercial businesses are open. This includes shops, hotels, and restaurants. Protocols have been put in place to adhere to social distancing and hand sanitising on entry. Please follow the guidance at each location.
Healthcare in Belize
If you are showing COVID-19 symptoms (cough, cold, fever, sneezing, shortness of breath or difficulty breathing, body aches and pains) you must call one of the following numbers before going into a health care facility:
COVID-19 Hotline: 0800 MOH CARE / 0800 664 2273.
COVID-19 Emergency: + 501 613 0787
By District:
Corozal: +501 625 6667 / +501 660 1115
Orange Walk: +501 614 8091 / +501 677 2839
Belize City: +501 615 7973 / +501 223 2722
Belmopan: +501 634 2870 /+501 600 2544
San Ignacio: +501 600 7506 / +501 621 6687
Stann Creek: +501 607 0133 / +501 634 8648
Independence: +501 624 0839 / +501 600 8167
Toledo: +501 614 1417 / +501 624 7619
For further information health care services in Belize, visit Belize: medical facilities.
Belize’s Ministry of Health and Wellness has partnered with private health facilities to expand testing capabilities across the country. See the Travel Belize website for a current list of approved COVID-19 testing facilities.
See Health for further details on healthcare in Belize.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Belize
We will update this page when the Government of Belize announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Belize national vaccination programme started in March 2021 and is using the AstraZeneca vaccine. The Government of Belize has stated that British nationals resident in Belize are eligible for vaccination. You can now register for your Covid-19 vaccination appointment online, by calling COVID-19 Hotline: 0800 MOH CARE / 0800 664 2273 or the local registration numbers at the district level for more information. Further information on the vaccination programme is also available on the Government of Belize Ministry of Health and Wellness website or follow the instructions in the tutorial video.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in Belize, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Further information
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
The British High Commission in Belmopan remains open and operational but staff are working remotely to comply with local Ministry of Health guidelines. We are committed to supporting British Nationals in Belize for the necessary consular services during this time.
