The information on this page covers the most common types of travel and reflects the UK government’s understanding of the rules currently in place. Unless otherwise stated, this information is for travellers using a full ‘British Citizen’ passport.
The authorities in the country or territory you’re travelling to are responsible for setting and enforcing the rules for entry. If you’re unclear about any aspect of the entry requirements, or you need further reassurance, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
You should also consider checking with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Entry rules in response to coronavirus (COVID-19)
Entry to Belize
The Philip Goldson International Airport (Belize City) is open with strict COVID-19 protocols in place. All Belize land borders remain closed. Maritime borders are now open for yachting tourism via the authorised ports of San Pedro, Belize City and Placencia.
On 18 March, the Government of Mexico partially closed its land borders with Belize, the United States and Guatemala as a preventive measure against COVID-19. This measure applies to non-essential travel across land borders and will be in place from 19 March to 20 May. International air travel is not affected. If you were planning to enter Mexico by land from Belize, you can contact the Mexican Embassy in Belize for more information on the current restrictions.
There are no direct flights between the UK and Belize. The regulations of countries that you may pass through and / or UK requirements on travel from transit countries may affect your travel. For more information see FCDO Travel Advice on the countries through which you may travel or transit.
If you wish to travel to Belize, prior to arrival you must:
Take a screenshot or print the QR Code and TRIP Number that will be generated when you complete the App - to have readily available on the day of your travel. You will need to show these at check-in, before boarding, and upon arrival in Belize.
(for tourists) Book your stay at an approved Gold Standard accommodation.
Take a PCR test within 96 hours prior to travel or Rapid Antigen, Sofia, SD Blosensor, and ABBOTT (Panbio) COVID-19 test within 48 hours prior to travel.
A negative result will provide a ‘fast track’ arrival process
Although a negative PCR result will provide a ‘fast track’ arrival process at the international airport, you may be randomly selected for secondary testing. You should not use the NHS testing service to get a test in order to facilitate your travel to another country. You should arrange to take a private test. If you are unable to take a test prior to travel, you must take a test on arrival at your own expense for US$50 per passenger
If you can provide proof of having received two full doses of COVID-19 vaccine on arrival at the airport, you will be exempt from any testing on arrival
If entering by sea, you must give 72-hour notice of arrival and use a Shipping Agent specially licensed to enter non-commercial vessels. There is a set tariff of no more than US$150.00
If you receive a positive test result you will be put into mandatory quarantine for a minimum of 14 days at an approved quarantine hotel at your own expense.
Further information is available from the Belize Tourism Board, Travel Belize or Belize Port Authority.
Whilst travel by air and some seaports has resumed, all Belize land and other sea borders remain closed for entry with the following exceptions, all subject to pre-approval:
Belize nationals and permanent residents,
foreign diplomats accredited to Belize,
a holder of a valid work permit,
a businessperson with investments in Belize,
a consultant or specialist technician required to be in Belize
If you are eligible for entry via land or sea ports, you must have approval from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or your nearest Belize Consulate or Embassy prior to arrival.
Everyone must comply with the current Statutory Instrument. See Travel in Belize
Regular entry requirements
Visas
British nationals do not need a visa to enter Belize. On arrival, you’ll be allowed to enter for a limited period. Any extension to remain in the country will incur a fee of BZD$200 for each month’s extension.
Passport validity
Your passport should be valid for a minimum period of 6 months from the date of entry into Belize.
Yellow fever certificate requirements
Check whether you need a yellow fever certificate by visiting the National Travel Health Network and Centre’s TravelHealthPro website.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents are accepted for entry, airside transit and exit from Belize.
Travelling with children
Single parents or adults travelling with children under the age of 18 are required to provide notarised documentary evidence of parental responsibility, or consent to travel from those with parental responsibility. Such documentation is often required before being allowed to enter Belize and, in some cases, before permitting children to leave the country.
Departure tax
When leaving by air the departure tax is BZD$111 or US$50, though it’s often included in the air fare. Make sure you have enough cash with you, as it isn’t always possible to pay by card.
When leaving by land the departure tax is BZD$40 or US$20, which must be paid in cash.
