At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist are available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. If you’re travelling with prescription or over-the-counter medicine, read this guidance from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Medical facilities in Belize are limited. Serious medical cases are normally evacuated to the United States (at the patient’s expense). Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation.
UK health authorities have classified Belize as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For more information and advice, visit the website of the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
Cases of Chikungunya virus have been confirmed in Belize and the number of reported cases in the region is increasing. You should take steps to avoid being bitten by mosquitoes.
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 911 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company promptly if you are referred to a medical facility for treatment.
Coronavirus
The Belize authorities in response to the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic have announced the closure of its borders. The Philip Goldson International Airport (Belize City) will close on Monday 23 March following the last scheduled flight departure. The Northern land border (Santa Elena Border) between Corozal and Chetumal, Mexico, including the Corozal free zone, will close at 11.59pm local time on Saturday 21 March. The rest of Belize’s entry ports remain closed – the Western, Southern and any other small border entry points. These restrictions will be reviewed after 30 days.
At the Northern border, Belizean nationals, residents and diplomats residing in Belize will be allowed entry into Belize subject to inspection and possible quarantine for 14 days. But there will be no exit from Belize except for agreed emergencies.
For those still looking to enter Belize prior to border closures there are a number of restrictions in place. These include all nationals from the United Kingdom, other countries in Europe, as well as China, Hong Kong, Iran, Japan, South Korea, plus anyone who has visited these countries in the last 30 days, being prohibited entry into Belize. The restricted travel list of countries will be continuously monitored and updated as necessary. During this pre border closure period all Belizean nationals and residents returning to Belize from any of the restricted countries or an area where community infection and spread is present, are being placed under self-isolation upon arrival for 14 days and expected to follow the protocols of the Ministry of Health. Screening measures are in place at the two border entry points until the advertised closures take place. Flights out of the country and the region remain restricted.
Currently flights are still leaving to Mexico and the United States (with restrictions, please see FCO travel advice pages for the USA) from Philip Goldson International Airport (Belize City). From there, flights can be taken back to the UK. Departing via land crossing at the Northern border (Santa Elena Border) between Corozal and Chetumal, Mexico (until border closure) into Mexico to pick up an onward flight may also be an option. Non-resident British nationals who wish to leave should contact their airline or operator.
The global and local situation is evolving rapidly. While in Belize, British nationals must follow the advice of local authorities. You must be ready to comply with local isolation, testing or quarantine requirements, and will need to rely on the local health system. Associated costs are likely to fall to you.
You should comply with any additional screening measures put in place by the authorities. Keep up to date with information from your tour operator, transport or accommodation provider on the impact on any existing travel plans. If you need further information about entry requirements, contact the Belizean immigration authorities or the nearest Belizean Embassy/Consulate. You should also check with your airline or travel company for the latest information before travelling.
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
