Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

On Wednesday 6 May Westjet Airlines will operate a special flight WS3929 from Philip Goldson International Airport (Belize City) to Toronto-Pearson International Airport (Canada). Please note flights are on a first come first served basis and may be subject to change.
To make a reservation please do so directly at www.westjet.com (do not use the WestJet application).
When you book online at www.westjet.com/en-ca/index, on the main booking page there is a link for “Apply discount code”
Click on “Apply discount code” this link and add coupon code “BZEHOME”, click apply.
Select BZE / Belize and YYZ / Toronto, date of May 6 (click ‘get flights’)
For travellers who require special assistance please call 1-888-WESTJET.
When booking, you will need to upload passport information on the WestJet website to facilitate the check-in process. Passengers are required to book their onward flight or transportation from Toronto as required. Once your reservation is made, please send an email to Belize-City@international.gc.ca and returnfrombelize@fco.gov.uk to inform Canadian and relevant local authorities that the booking is confirmed and provide the following information for you and your co-travellers:
Name:
Date of Birth:
Passport Number:
Country issuing Passport:
Passport Date of Expiry:
If you are not a US citizen, do you have a valid Visa or eTA?
Reason for entering Canada and onward flight information:
Email and phone number we can contact you at if we need further information:
If you wish to travel you will require an eTA or visa to transit the Canada. You can apply for an eTA online.
To travel:
You must be in possession of a valid passport.
You must bring your own non-medical mask or face covering and wear it as directed by authorities to your final destination. A mask will not be provided at the airport. Transport Canada (TC) has implemented measures requiring air operators to verify that all travellers have a removable facemask available for use during their trip.
If you arrive at the airport with symptoms related to COVID-19, WestJet will deny your boarding in order to ensure the safety of other passengers on the plane.
WestJet will allow each passenger on this flight one (1) standard carry-on item of maximum 10 kg and one (1) 23-kg piece of checked luggage. The weight limit and amount of luggage will be strictly enforced.
For British national seeking transit through Canada to another country, you must stay on the airside (i.e. not leave the airport) and you must depart within 24 hours on your next flight. You cannot transit within Canada, your connecting flight must go to a destination outside Canada. Your travel must be deemed essential. If for some reason you are unable to depart within 24 hours, you will be required to quarantine in a Canadian facility for 14 days before departing. Currently there are limited international flights departing Canada. You will need to look at whether you can find an onward flight given these considerations.
There are currently no commercial options available to return to the UK from Belize. With effect from 23 March, the Government of Belize closed all borders including suspending all international flights to the Philip Goldson International Airport (Belize City). These restrictions will be reviewed at the end of April as part of the state of emergency review, Exit out of Belize during this time will not be possible.
In the meantime the British High Commission, Belmopan invites UK travellers/British holiday makers to send their email address and telephone numbers to returnfrombelize@fco.gov.uk so that we are aware you are in country.
We know this is concerning for British people trying to leave Belize. The UK government is working closely with airlines, the Belize authorities and other governments to make sure that when options are available for you to return to the UK you are made aware as soon as possible.
What to do
As you cannot leave Belize at this time, you should:
follow the advice of local authorities, including local measures to help minimise your risk of exposure to coronavirus.
find accommodation that’s suitable for your needs.
keep in regular contact with family and friends at home, so they know you are safe and well.
See more information and advice about staying where you are if you cannot return to the UK.
Future travel options
The UK government is working closely with airlines, the Belize authorities and other governments to make sure that when options are available for you to return to the UK you are made aware as soon as possible.
This travel advice will be updated when departure options become available. Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British High Commission on Facebook.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Your journey home
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British High Commission on +501 822 2146.
The British High Commission cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone. This page will be updated when departure options become available. To get the latest information, sign up for travel advice email alerts.
Further information
See additional advice on making travel plans to return to the UK, or what to do if you cannot depart immediately.
