

Terrorism  
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.      
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad. 
Terrorism in Belize 
Although there is no recent history of terrorism in Belize, attacks cannot be ruled out.  
Political situation  
Political demonstrations take place in Belize City and Belmopan, but most are peaceful. Follow the instructions of local authorities, monitor local media and avoid large gatherings and demonstrations. 
Crime 
Investigations can take several weeks, police capacity is limited and most crimes remain unsolved and unprosecuted. 
Belize has one of the highest per capita murder rates in the world. Other violent crime, including armed robbery, shootings, domestic abuse and sexual assault are also a concern.
Serious gang-related violence occurs most frequently in Belize City, particularly in the area to the south of the Haulover Creek (known as Southside). Tourists are not normally the targets of gang violence, but anyone near an incident could be affected. You should:
follow the advice of your hotel and local authorities  
be watchful of your surroundings 
Armed criminals have been active in the remote forested areas of Belize, particularly the border area with Guatemala and close to tourist sites there. However, the area is patrolled by the Belize Defence Force and there have been no reported incidents involving tourists.
Tourists, in general, are vulnerable to theft of cash, credit cards, phones and other personal belongings, including in tourist destinations such as San Pedro, Caye Caulker, Placencia and San Ignacio. You should: 
avoid dark alleys
use ATMs located in well-lit public areas or inside a bank or business
keep valuables out of sight
be aware that wearing expensive jewellery could attract attention
use a qualified guide for trips off the beaten track
only use accommodation and campgrounds that appear genuine and established
Laws and cultural differences  
Illegal drugs and prison sentences 
Possession of illegal drugs can lead to a fine and prison sentence.  
LGBT+ travellers 
Same-sex activity between consenting adults is legal. The Immigration Act prohibits “homosexual” persons from entering the country but immigration authorities have not enforced that law. Tourist-friendly areas, including San Pedro and Ambergris Caye, are relatively open and welcoming to the LGBT+ community. Outside of these areas, LGBT+ couples, especially men, tend to be reluctant to display affection in public because of incidents of verbal or physical abuse which have been reported.
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers. 
Outdoor activities and adventure tourism  
Find more information on local travel from the Belize Tourism Board. 
Swimming safety 
There have been injuries and fatalities from adventure sports activities, including snorkelling and diving. The main causes have been inadequate safety precautions and severe weather conditions. Check local weather forecasts and only use registered and licensed operators.
See water safety on holiday from the Royal Life Saving Society.
Transport risks  
Road travel  
If you are planning to drive in Belize, see information on driving abroad.   
You can use a UK photocard driving licence to drive in Belize for up to 3 months. If you still have a paper driving licence, you may need to update it to a photocard licence. For longer stays, you must get a Belize driving permit from the Department of Transport in your district.
Driving conditions may be hazardous, especially during the rainy season, due to:
roads with potholes, unpaved dirt shoulders and few lane markings
narrow or unpaved roads
roads often unlit
lack of emergency road assistance
flooded temporary bridges and causeways during severe weather in southern parts of the country, particularly in Stann Creek and Toledo.
Driving standards 
Road traffic accidents are common. Local driving and vehicle maintenance standards are poor. Public buses are not well maintained and many do not have seatbelts. Take care when driving, particularly during rainy conditions or at night. Be aware of the risks, including high levels of drink-driving, speeding, reckless driving and other vehicles, including bicycles, not having working lights.
Taxis  
Only take registered taxis with green licence plates. Always ask the fare before getting in, and expect to pay in cash.  
Extreme weather and natural disasters 
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards.
Hurricanes  
The hurricane season is from 1 June to 30 November. Monitor local and international weather updates from the US National Hurricane Center’s regional map and the National Meteorological Service of Belize. You should also follow advice from the National Emergency Management Organisation. 
Flooding 
Heavy rainfall can cause flooding. Follow the weather forecasts from the National Hydrological Service and the National Meteorological Service of Belize.  
Flooding caused by Tropical Storm Sara is affecting western parts of Belize. You should follow the advice of the local authorities.
Earthquakes 
Belize is not directly affected by earthquakes, but tremors from earthquakes in neighbouring countries can occasionally be felt in Belize. There can occasionally be tsunami warnings.   
The US Federal Emergency Management Agency has advice about what to do before, during and after an earthquake.   
