This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Belize as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Belize to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Belize
For information on entering Belize, see Entry Requirements
There is a nationwide state of emergency in place, including a curfew from 8pm to 5am every day. For its duration, people are advised to stay at home even during daylight hours and only to go outside if absolutely necessary for shopping and doing essential business only. Supermarkets, grocery stores, banks and credit unions will open for agreed times.
Exercise may be taken between 5am and 8am daily (except Sunday). Cargo and essential imports will continue to come into the country. Visit the Government of Belize Press Office Facebook page to stay up to date.
The Belize authorities will be strictly enforcing the state of emergency, physical distancing, self-isolation, quarantining and other such rules. Anyone who violates these may be liable for fines and imprisonment for up to one year.
Informing the British High Commission
If you’re travelling in Belize and are currently unable to return, send your email address and telephone number to the British High Commission Belmopan via returnfrombelize@fco.gov.uk so that we are aware you are in country.
Visas
British Nationals in Belize will need to apply for monthly visa extensions whilst in the country. The fee is BZD$200 for each month’s extension.
Health
If you are showing COVID-19 symptoms – fever, shortness of breath, coughing or difficulty breathing – call 0800 MOH CARE / 0800 664 2273.
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Belize.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Belize, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
The British High Commission in Belmopan remains open and operational but staff are working remotely to comply with local Ministry of Health guidelines. We are committed to supporting British Nationals in Belize for the necessary consular services during this time.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
