Travel to Belize is subject to entry restrictions
On 18 March, the Government of Mexico partially closed its land borders with Belize, the United States and Guatemala as a preventive measure against COVID-19. This measure applies to non-essential travel across land borders and will be in place from 19 March to 21 April. International air travel is not affected. If you were planning to enter Mexico by land from any of these countries, you can contact the Mexican Embassy or Consulates in that country for more information on the current restrictions.
Belize’s international airport and San Pedro, Belize City and Placencia seaports (for yachting tourism) are open with strict COVID-19 protocols in place. All Belize’s land and other sea borders remain closed.
If you wish to travel to Belize, you need to:
Download Belize Health App and complete required information within 72 hours of travel to Belize (not before).
Take a PCR test within 96 hours prior to travel or Rapid Antigen, Sofia, SD Blosensor, and ABBOTT (Panbio) COVID-19 test within 48 hours prior to travel.
A negative PCR result will provide a ‘fast track’ arrival process. If you are unable to take a test prior to travel, you must take a test on arrival at your own expense for US$50 per passenger
If you can provide proof of having received two full doses of COVID-19 vaccine on arrival at the airport, you will be exempt from any testing on entry
If entering by sea, you must give 72-hour notice of arrival and use a Shipping Agent specially licensed to enter non-commercial vessels. There is a set tariff of no more than US$150.00.
See Entry requirements for more information before you plan to travel.
Preparing for your return journey to the UK
If you’re returning to the UK from overseas, you will need to:
provide your journey and contact details before you travel
check if you need to self-isolate on your return
If your return journey to the UK transits another country, you should check whether it is subject to a travel ban or any other additional requirements. If so, contact your travel provider.
Check our advice on foreign travel during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and sign up for email alerts for this travel advice.
If you’re planning travel to Belize, find out what you need to know about coronavirus there in the Coronavirus section.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to get travel insurance and check it provides sufficient cover. See the FCDO’s guidance on foreign travel insurance.
For information about COVID-19 vaccines, see the Coronavirus page.
Regulations remain in force to prevent, control, contain and suppress the spread of coronavirus. The Government of Belize has announced a nationwide curfew to prevent the spread of COVID-19 until further notice. The curfew is from Sunday to Thursday nights 10pm to 5am, and Friday and Saturday nights midnight to 5am for adults and 6pm to 5am every day for minors. If you violate these regulations, you will be returned to your port of entry at your own expense. If you cannot be returned immediately, you will be placed into mandatory quarantine at a government designated facility which may be at your own expense.
The Philip Goldson International Airport (Belize City) and San Pedro, Belize City and Placencia seaports (for yachting tourism) are open with strict COVID-19 protocols in place. All Belize land and other sea borders are closed. There are no direct flights between the UK and Belize. The regulations of countries that you may pass through and / or UK requirements on travel from transit countries may affect your travel. For more information see FCDO Travel Advice on the countries through which you may travel or transit. See Coronavirus and Entry requirements.
The British High Commission in Belmopan remains open and operational staff are working a combination of in the office and remotely to comply with local Ministry of Health guidelines. We are committed to supporting British nationals in Belize for the necessary consular services during this time.
15,356 British nationals visited Belize in 2019. Most visits are trouble free.
There has been an increase in violent incidents against tourists and expatriate residents. You should take precautions against crime throughout Belize, in particular the Southside area of Belize City, due to dangerous gang violence and gun crime. See Crime
The hurricane season in Belize normally runs from June to November. During the hurricane season, you should monitor updates from local authorities and the media before travelling to or around Belize. See Hurricanes
UK health authorities have classified Belize as having a risk of Zika virus transmission. For more information and advice, visit the National Travel Health Network and Centre website.
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Belize, attacks can’t be ruled out. See Terrorism
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.
