This page has information on travelling to Italy. Check what you must do to return to the UK.
This page reflects the UK government’s understanding of current rules for people travelling on a full ‘British Citizen’ passport from the UK, for the most common types of travel.
The authorities in Italy set and enforce entry rules.
All travellers
Adult travellers will need to complete a passenger locator form (EU PLF) to enter or travel through Italy as a visitor. Accompanied minors can be registered on the form of the accompanying adult in the declaration section – see ‘Children and Young People’. The EU PLF will generate a QR code which should be shown to your travel provider prior to boarding.
From 1 March, all travellers, aged 6 and over, must show one of the following:
proof of vaccination OR
evidence of a negative PCR test taken within 72 hours before entering Italy or a negative rapid lateral flow test taken within the 48 hours before entering Italy OR
a COVID-19 recovery certificate, certifying that you have recovered from COVID-19 in the last 6 months
If you cannot present evidence of vaccination OR a negative test OR a COVID-19 recovery certificate, you will need to:
travel to your final destination in Italy by private transport
remain in self-isolation for 5 days
take another PCR or rapid lateral flow test at the end of the 5 days’ self-isolation. If the test is negative, you can leave self-isolation
All passengers entering Italy by plane, ferry, train or coach must wear an FFP2 mask in order to enter the country.
Further information on entry requirements from the UK and other countries can be found on the Ministry of Health website and the Italian Government’s online questionnaire.
If you’re fully vaccinated
If you travel from the UK and can demonstrate that you’re fully vaccinated, you can enter Italy without the need to self-isolate. You must also fill in the passenger locator form (EU PLF). You can ask for a paper form if you do not have an electronic device
Proof of vaccination status
You can use the UK’s proof of COVID-19 recovery and vaccination record to demonstrate your vaccination record when entering Italy. Your NHS appointment card from vaccination centres is not designed to be used as proof of vaccination and should not be used to demonstrate your vaccination status.
At least 14 days must have passed since your second dose of the vaccine (or one dose of a single-dose vaccine) before arrival in Italy. Your date(s) of vaccination must be specified and you need to have had a vaccine approved by the European Medicines Agency.
Travellers arriving from the UK can enter Italy with either:
a primary vaccination certificate (valid for 270 days from the date of the last dose for those who have had a full course of vaccines (both doses of a two-dose vaccine or one dose of a one-dose vaccine) or valid indefinitely for those who have had a full course plus a booster dose), or
a recovery certificate which is valid for 180 days from the date of the first positive test.
For information on how to use your certificates (known locally as Green Pass and Super Green Pass) to access services in Italy, see the ‘Coronavirus’ page and ‘Public spaces and services’ section.
If you completed the primary vaccination cycle (both doses of a two-dose vaccine or one dose of a one-dose vaccine) more than 270 days ago, you are not considered fully vaccinated and must comply with the requirements in the ‘If you’re not fully vaccinated’ section below.
Find out if you qualify as fully vaccinated in Italy on the Ministry of Health website.
If you’re not fully vaccinated
If you’re not fully vaccinated, exempt from vaccination, or you cannot demonstrate that you’re fully vaccinated, to enter Italy from the UK you must fill in the passenger locator form (EU PLF) before you enter Italy to get a QR code to show to your travel provider and Border Police. This can be in paper format if you do not have an electronic device.
You must also show either:
evidence of a negative PCR taken within 72 hours before entering Italy or a negative rapid lateral flow test taken within the 48 hours before entering Italy OR
a COVID-19 recovery certificate, certifying that you have recovered from COVID-19 in the last 6 months
If you cannot present evidence of vaccination OR a negative test OR a COVID-19 recovery certificate, you will need to:
travel to your final destination in Italy by private transport
remain in self-isolation for 5 days
take another PCR or rapid lateral flow test at the end of the 5 days’ self-isolation. If the test is negative, you can leave self-isolation
If you’ve had COVID-19 in the past year
If you’re travelling to Italy you can use the UK’s proof of COVID-19 recovery record, certifying that you have recovered from COVID-19 in the last 6 months. In Italy the UK COVID Pass (Digital) is considered equivalent to the Super Green Pass and is considered valid for 180 days from the last dose of the vaccine OR for 180 days from the date of the first positive test.
Children aged 12 and over in England can access an UK COVID Pass (Digital) showing either full vaccination or recovery from COVID-19.
Children and young people
Children and minors do not need to complete a separate Passenger Locator Form. Accompanied minors can be registered on the EU Passenger locator form of the accompanying adult in the declaration section.
Prior to departure, parents or legal guardians should complete an EU Passenger locator form for unaccompanied minors.
The EU PLF will generate a QR code which should be shown to your travel provider prior to boarding.
Children aged 5 and under do not need to take a test to enter Italy.
Children aged 6 and over must follow the rules for adult travellers.
If you’re transiting through Italy
Transiting is when you pass through one country on the way to your final destination. Italy’s land borders are open. You should check travel advice for any countries you plan to travel through ahead of your journey and should ensure that you have the necessary tests for each country you transit as well as Italy.
Transiting Italy by Air
If you are transiting through Italy you need to provide either proof of vaccination, proof of a negative PCR or lateral flow test or proof of recovery from COVID-19 in the last 6 months - see ‘Entry Requirements’.
Passengers who remain within the airport transit area are exempt from completing a Passenger Locator Form for transit through Italy and should follow the rules of the country of your final destination.
If the airport does not have transit facilities or you have booked connecting flights with different airlines, you will need to pass through Immigration. You may be asked to show proof of onward travel or proof of accommodation and funds if you intend to break your journey in Italy. You should complete a Passenger Locator Form from Italy to the country of your final destination.
Transiting Italy by Land or Sea
If you are transiting Italy by ferry, bus or train you need to provide proof of vaccination, or a negative PCR or lateral flow test, or proof of recovery from COVID-19 in the last 6 months – see ‘Entry Requirements’.
Travellers transiting Italy by private means for less than 36 hours do not need to complete a Passenger Locator Form. You should follow the rules of the country of your final destination.
Consult the Italian Government’s online questionnaire (in English) for more advice and the Re-open Europe website for transit regulations.
Exemptions
Exemptions to the rules may apply for:
People transiting Italy in a private vehicle for a period not exceeding 36 hours
People entering Italy for a period not exceeding 120 hours (five days) for proven reasons of work, health or absolute necessity
All exempt travellers must complete an EU Passenger locator form (EU PLF)
Full information and instructions on exemptions can be found on the Ministry of Health website and the Italian Embassy in London’s update page.
Check your passport and travel documents before you travel
You should check with your transport provider or travel company to make sure your passport and other travel documents meet their requirements.
Passport validity
If you are planning to travel to an EU country (except Ireland), or Switzerland, Norway, Iceland, Liechtenstein, Andorra, Monaco, San Marino or Vatican City, you must meet the Schengen area rules.
Your passport must meet 2 requirements. It must be:
less than 10 years old on the day you enter (check the ‘date of issue’)
valid for at least 3 months after the day you plan to leave (check the ‘expiry date’)
We are asking the European Commission to clarify the 10-year rule. Their guidance for Schengen border guards may not be updated until the spring of 2022. Until then, for some Schengen countries your passport may need to be less than 10 years old during your whole visit, and the 3 months at the end of your visit may need to be within 10 years of your passport’s issue date.
Check both the issue date and the expiry date in your passport. If you renewed your passport early, extra months may have been added to its expiry date. This could affect the requirement for your passport to be less than 10 years old.
Contact your travel provider or embassy of the country you are visiting if you think that your passport does not meet both these requirements. Renew your passport if you need to.
Visas
You can travel to countries in the Schengen area for up to 90 days in any 180-day period without a visa. This applies if you travel as a tourist, to visit family or friends, to attend business meetings, cultural or sports events, or for short-term studies or training.
If you are travelling to Italy and other Schengen countries without a visa, make sure your whole visit is within the 90-day limit. Visits to Schengen countries within the previous 180 days before you travel count towards your 90 days.
To stay longer, to work or study, for business travel or for other reasons, you will need to meet the Italian government’s entry requirements. Check which type of visa and/or work permit you may need with the Italian Ministry of Foreign Affairs before booking an appointment through the Italian consulates in London or Edinburgh.
If you are travelling to Italy for work, read the guidance on visas and permits.
If you stay in Italy with a residence permit or long-stay visa, this does not count towards your 90-day visa-free limit.
British citizens who are unable to return to the UK before the expiry of their visa/permit or the end of their visa-free limit due to COVID-19 restrictions should contact their local immigration office (questura)
Passport stamping
At Italian border control, you may need to:
show proof of your accommodation, for example, a hotel booking confirmation or proof of address if visiting your own property (e.g. second home)
show proof of insurance for your trip. Please check the guidance on travel insurance
show a return or onward ticket
you should also be able to prove that you have enough money for your stay. The minimum amount required depends on your accommodation
your host must inform the local immigration office (questura) in writing within 48 hours after you arrive at their property. They could be fined if they fail to comply with this Italian immigration law
Check your passport is stamped if you enter or exit the Schengen area through Italy as a visitor. Border guards will use passport stamps to check you’re complying with the 90-day visa-free limit for short stays in the Schengen area. If relevant entry or exit stamps are not in your passport, border guards will presume that you have overstayed your visa-free limit.
You can show evidence of when and where you entered or exited the Schengen area, and ask the border guards to add this date and location in your passport. Examples of acceptable evidence include boarding passes and tickets.
If you are entering from a Schengen Area country (e.g. France) you are required to declare your presence to the local immigration authority (questura) within 8 days of arriving (‘dichiarazione di presenza’). The questura will provide a form to complete. This requirement is not applicable if you are staying in a hotel or a B&B property.
Further information is provided on the Italian Ministry of Foreign Affairs website.
If you are resident in Italy, read our Living in Italy guide for passport stamping information.
UK Emergency Travel Documents
UK Emergency Travel Documents (ETDs) are accepted for entry, airside transit and exit from Italy.
Returning to the UK
Check what you must do to return to the UK.
