Stay at home
Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if you cannot work from home)
If you go out, stay 2 metres (6ft) away from other people at all times
Wash your hands as soon as you get home
Do not meet others, even friends or family.
You can spread the virus even if you don’t have symptoms.

There remain commercial options to return to the UK from Italy.
If you live in the UK and are currently visiting Italy, you’re strongly advised to return now by commercial means. Don’t run the risk of getting stranded.
UK special charter flights will only operate for priority countries where commercial flights are not possible. You should not assume that these flights will become available in countries where commercial routes are operating. Please do not contact the contracted travel management company if no flight is advertised here.
Flights
Alitalia currently operates the only daily flights between Italy and the UK, from Rome Fiumicino to London Heathrow. The number of flights is expected to reduce alongside demand. More information can be found on the Alitalia website.
Passengers on Alitalia flights are required to wear a face mask (one will be provided if you do not bring your own). More information can be found on the Alitalia website.
Airports currently operational for internal flights are: Ancona, Bari, Bologna, Cagliari, Catania, Genova, Lamezia Terme, Lampedusa, Milano Malpensa, Napoli Capodichino, Palermo, Pantelleria, Pescara, Pisa, Roma Fiumicino, Torino, Venezia Tessera.
Travelling to your departure point
If travelling by car or rail to the airport, ensure you are carrying a completed Self-Declaration Form for Internal Movement stating this.
Travel via neighbouring countries
Several neighbouring countries have imposed restrictions on people entering from Italy.
The French government have implemented their own measures, including required documents for travel into, and transit through, France.
You should check travel advice for any countries you plan to travel through ahead of your journey.
Emergency Loans
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. For more information, you should contact Corporate Travel Management (CTM). CTM are a commercial partner of the FCO and are authorised to administer such loans on behalf of the FCO.
Your journey home
The National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) provides advice on how to stay safe as you travel by air.
When you arrive back in the UK, follow the guidance for when you return to the UK on steps you should take to protect yourself and others.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact the British Embassy Rome.
Sign up for travel advice email alerts and follow the British Embassy Rome on Twitter and Facebook.
