

Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Italy
Terrorist attacks in Italy cannot be ruled out.
Events in Israel and the Occupied Palestinian Territories
Italian authorities have increased security around some Jewish community sites due to events in Israel and the Occupied Palestinian Territories. Stay aware of your surroundings, stay away from demonstrations and follow the advice of local authorities. 
Political demonstrations
Demonstrations can happen with little or no warning in cities. Avoid any protests, political gatherings or marches. 
Jubilee 2025 - Holy Year
Rome expects a high number of visitors throughout the Holy Year of 2025, particularly during large events.
Jubilee Events
Check the official Jubilee website or download the Jubilee app for a calendar of events and to stay informed of anything that might affect your travel or plans whilst in Rome.
Pilgrim’s card
If you are planning to take part in the Jubilee, get a free digital Pilgrim’s card. You will need this to take part in the main Jubilee events and to organise a pilgrimage to the Holy Doors of the 4 Papal Basilicas of Rome: St Peter’s in the Vatican, St John Lateran, St Mary Major and St Paul Outside the Walls.
Transport around the city
Transport routes around the city will be very busy. Local authorities may ask you to enter or leave by specific routes. Make sure you:
plan your journey
leave plenty of time, particularly during large events
For information on public transport in Rome during the Jubilee, see the Rome public transport website  or use the Rome city journey planner.
Increased risk of petty crime
The higher number of travellers during the Holy Year could increase levels of petty crime.
Crime
Crime levels are generally low but there are higher levels of petty crime, particularly bag-snatching and pickpocketing, in city centres and at major tourist attractions.  
To reduce your personal risk:
keep sight of your belongings at all times
beware of thieves using distraction techniques
avoid carrying all your valuables together in handbags or pockets
leave spare cash and valuables in a safe place such as a hotel safe
Stolen Passports
Be aware that if your passport is stolen, you cannot use a police report to leave Italy. See our lost or stolen passports guidance
Public transport
Take care on public transport, in crowded areas and in city centres, including main stations – particularly in and around Termini station in Rome as well as the metro.
Be particularly careful with your belongings:
on trains to and from airports
at cruise ship ports
when unloading your baggage from trains and coaches
Theft from cars
Thefts from parked cars happen in Rome, particularly in the Colosseum area, Ostia, Milan and Pisa. Thieves also target coastal areas and towns, and motorway service stations. Avoid leaving luggage in your vehicle – even out of sight in the boot – for any length of time.   
Thieves may use a variety of methods to distract you or encourage you to stop your car, including asking for help or directions or pointing out a fictional fault with your car. 
Drink spiking and alcohol
Do not take drinks from strangers or leave your drinks unattended. Victims of spiked drinks have been robbed and sometimes assaulted. Alcohol and drugs can reduce your vigilance, making you less in control. If you drink, know your limit. Drinks served in bars in Italy are often stronger than those in the UK.
Laws and cultural differences
Personal ID
Under Italian law, police can stop you at any time to carry out an identity check or your date of entry into the country. Carry photo ID with you at all times. The police will normally ask for your full passport if you are stopped while driving.
Illegal drugs
Illegal drugs, including cannabis, carry severe penalties. You should expect a long jail sentence and heavy fines for possessing, using or smuggling illegal drugs, including when transiting through airports.
Airports in Italy have excellent technology and security for detecting illegal items. This is also used to scan the baggage of transiting passengers.
Public transport regulations
You must validate your tickets on public transport before you start your journey. Officials patrol public transport and will issue an on-the-spot fine of 100 to 500 euros (reduced to 50 euros if paid immediately) if you do not have a validated ticket.
Tourist tax
Many major cities in Italy impose a small tax on tourists. You must usually pay this tax at your hotel as it is unlikely to be included in your holiday booking. The rate of tax varies from city to city and can depend on the star rating of the hotel. Hotels often ask for payment in cash. Make sure you get a receipt. For more information, check with the local tourist information office.
Venice access fee
If you are visiting Venice, you may need to pay an access fee. See when access fees apply, exemptions and how to make a payment.
Public offences
Some Italian towns and cities have specific laws, and you could be fined for breaking them. For example, there may be laws against:
dropping litter
sitting on monument steps
eating and drinking next to main churches, historic monuments and public buildings
defacing historic monuments
It’s also an offence to enter or bathe in public fountains in many towns and cities, including Florence and Rome. You could face a fine of up to 10,000 euros for urinating in a public place.
On the island of Capri, you must not use or bring on to the island any disposable plastic objects such as bags, cutlery, plates, cups, food packaging, trays and straws. If you do, you could be fined up to 500 euros.
Illegal traders operate on the streets of all major Italian cities. It is illegal to buy items from unlicensed street traders. If you do, you could be stopped by the local police and fined.
It’s illegal to remove sand, shells or pebbles from coastal areas in Italy. You could face a large fine for doing so. It’s also illegal to collect various species of flowers, plants and herbs from mountain and wooded areas. For more information, check with the regional authorities of the area you’re visiting.
Winter sports
Get advice on weather and avalanche conditions before you travel and familiarise yourself with local skiing laws and regulations.
You can contact the Italian State Tourist Board for advice on safety and weather conditions before you travel.
Regulations for the ski season include:
third-party liability insurance is a legal requirement and can be purchased locally with a ski pass
you must wear a helmet if you are under 18
you must not eat or drink on ski lifts or boarding areas
you must not climb a slope with snowshoes except in an emergency
you must not ski under the influence of alcohol or drugs
Off-piste skiing is very dangerous, with the danger of avalanches in some areas. Follow all safety instructions and go with a qualified guide. For more information about the avalanche risk, visit the European Avalanche Warning Service website.
Make sure your insurance covers off-piste activity. It is a legal requirement for skiers and snowboarders to carry tracking equipment, a snow probe and a shovel if they go off-piste.
See advice on preparing for winter sports.
Outdoor activities and adventure tourism
Hiking, mountaineering and other adventure sports have specific risks.
Check the company is well-established in the industry and make sure your insurance covers these activities.
For sports activities like skiing, potholing and mountaineering, and for sports classed as particularly dangerous, such as off-piste skiing, mountain biking, climbing, paragliding or BASE jumping, your insurance should include:
mountain rescue services
helicopter costs
repatriation to your country of residence or transfer to neighbouring countries for treatment
Check weather forecasts and conditions and make sure you’re properly equipped for the worst-case scenario with items such as a map, compass, GPS and telecommunication equipment.
Risks are greater if you undertake any activity alone. You may want to hire a guide for expert advice. Always leave copies of your itinerary with someone.
If you are planning on hiking in the Trentino region, read what to do if  you see a brown bear.
Transport risks
Road travel
If you are planning to drive in Italy, see information on driving abroad and check the rules of the road in the RAC’s Italy guide. The guide lists driving regulations and other legal requirements you need to be aware of.
The Italian Police guide on driving in Italy gives further safety advice.
You can use a UK photocard driving licence to drive in Italy. If you still have a paper driving licence, you may need to update it to a photocard licence or get the correct version of the international driving permit (IDP) as well.
Hire car companies often have stricter requirements for their customers, such as a year of driving experience, a higher minimum age and holding an IDP. 
Check if you need a UK sticker to drive your car outside the UK.
If you’re living in Italy, or planning to live there, see the driving requirements for residents.
Taxis
Only use officially licensed taxis, which have a taxi sign on the roof and a company name and number written on the side. Call a taxi, order one from an app or pick one up from an official rank.         
Transport strikes
Transport strikes are often called at short notice. You can find information on the Ministry of Transport website (in Italian).
Pedestrian safety
Traffic can be busy, fast and chaotic, especially in the larger cities. Take care when crossing roads. Pedestrians should cross roads at a crossing. You can be fined for crossing the road if you are within 100 metres of a pedestrian crossing but do not use it. Drivers do not always stop, even though they are required to. The green pedestrian crossing signal also allows cars to turn right on to the crossing, so cross with caution.
Traffic restrictions
You need a pass to drive into the historic centre of many Italian cities in a private or hire car. You can buy a pass from most car hire companies. The boundaries are usually marked with the letters ZTL in black on a yellow background. If you pass this sign, your registration number is likely to be caught on camera and you will be fined if you do not have a pass.
There is a congestion charge for Milan city centre.
In Rome, city authorities sometimes restrict traffic to reduce pollution. This means certain vehicles are not allowed on the roads in the green band (‘fascia verde’) area, which covers most of Rome. The Rome Municipality has more information.
Extreme weather and natural disasters
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards. For severe weather warnings, visit the European Meteorological Services website.
Wildfires
Wildfires are a risk during the extended summer months. They are highly dangerous and unpredictable. Check the latest alerts and weather forecast and follow advice of local authorities if you’re considering travelling to affected areas. Take care when visiting or driving through woodland areas and report fires to the emergency services.
For information on what to do in the event of a wildfire, visit the Civil Protection Department.
Flooding
Heavy rainfall is common throughout Italy in winter, which can cause local flooding. Monitor local media, weather reports and follow the advice of local authorities in affected areas.
High waters are a common occurrence in Venice and can cause flooding in parts of the city.
Earthquakes
Many parts of Italy lie on a major seismic fault line, which means that minor tremors and earthquakes happen regularly. Learn more about what to do before, during, and after an earthquake.
Volcanoes
Due to volcanic activity, local authorities have increased the alert levels for both Etna and Stromboli in the south of Italy. In the event of a volcanic eruption, follow the advice of local authorities. 
Airspace can be affected during eruptions. If you are travelling to or from Catania, during a period of heightened activity, check with your travel provider or with Catania airport.
There are several active volcanoes in southern Italy. National emergency planning has been updated for Vesuvius as well as the Phlegraean fields, an area that remains active experiencing regular tremors.
Read what to do in the event of a volcanic eruption and follow the instructions of the local authorities.
