This page gives you guidance on how to stay safely in Italy as a visitor, if you are unable to return to the UK.
Everyone should comply with the measures put in place in Italy to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Italy
The Italian authorities have advised against travel for tourism purposes throughout Italy. Tourists already on holiday in Italy should limit their movements to those necessary to return to the place where they live.
On 18 May, the Italian government relaxed some coronavirus measures as part of Phase 2 of their response:
using masks remains mandatory in enclosed public spaces
parks have reopened and outdoor exercise is permitted, subject to social distancing
funerals have recommenced, with limited attendance. Churches can celebrate mass, weddings and baptisms
restaurants, pubs, bars, shops, hairdressers, salons and beaches have been given permission to open, as have museums, libraries and archaeological sites. All must have measures in place to enforce social distancing
travel between Italian regions is only permitted in exceptional circumstances. You must carry a Self-Declaration Form for Internal Movement if you are travelling between regions until 2 June
the Self-Declaration Form for Internal Movement is no longer required for day-to-day travel outside of your home or place of residence
schools are expected to remain closed until September
If infection rates remain low, regional travel will be permitted within Italy from 3 June, as will travel to and from EU countries and the UK.
Regional authorities in Italy are empowered adjust these measures in keeping with local requirements; regional differences may therefore apply to the Phase 2 restrictions listed above.
If you’re travelling through Italy as a visitor, you must carry your passport and an onward ticket at all times.
If you are a British national resident in Italy, you should carry proof of your residence in Italy when transiting through airports or other transport hubs.
You can find more information on measures on the Ministry of Health website (in Italian) and Frequently Asked Questions on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs website (in English).
See also Entry requirements for Italy.
Health
If you need medical advice or believe you have symptoms of coronavirus you should contact your local GP, your local ASL (Azienda Sanitaria Locale) or one of the regional numbers listed on the Italian Ministry of Health website before visiting a health centre.
In the case of an emergency you should call Italy’s 112 emergency number. English speaking operators are available.
For contact details for English speaking doctors, visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health.
View Health for further details on healthcare in Italy.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
If you’re in Italy, and have exhausted all other options to cover essential living costs while you wait to return home, you could apply for an emergency loan for your living costs from the UK government. You can only apply if you normally live in the UK and you cannot return home. This last-resort option is for those most in need, and you would need to repay the loan when you are back in the UK. Apply for an emergency loan.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
