Stay up to date
The rules on travel will stay the same until 31 December 2020. This page will be updated with country-specific information for travellers to Italy as things change. Sign up for email alerts and view the latest updates for UK nationals travelling to and living in Europe.
The Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advise against all but essential travel to Italy, due to an ongoing outbreak of coronavirus (COVID-19) and in line with various controls and restrictions imposed by the Italian authorities. British nationals in Italy should follow the advice of the Italian authorities.
The Italian authorities have advised against travel for tourism purposes throughout Italy, and that tourists already on holiday in Italy should limit their movements to those necessary to return to the place where they live.
On 11 March, the Italian government announced new measures closing all non-essential business across Italy with immediate effect. All shops will be closed apart from pharmacies and shops selling food and other basic necessities. Essential public services, transport, utilities, banks and postal services will remain active. All public gatherings, including religious ceremonies, funerals and sporting events remain suspended. Restaurants, bars, museums, cultural institutions, childcare facilities, schools and universities are closed, as are ski resorts.
Airports remain open. Airline schedules are subject to change and flights are being cancelled. The majority of carriers have indicated that they will cease operating direct flights between Italy and the UK after 13 March. British tourists in Italy should contact their airline operators as soon as possible to arrange return to the UK.
Train companies are reducing services, including to Milan Malpensa airport. Some cross-border bus companies are also cancelling their services. Ports remain open although we understand that passengers on cruise ships will not be allowed to disembark for tourism purposes. Passenger ferry schedules remain subject to change and cancellations. Several neighbouring countries have imposed restrictions on people entering from Italy. Please consult travel advice for the country concerned.
Passengers arriving at Italian airports are subject to temperature checks, and may be asked to register with the Italian health authorities.
Additional restrictions include the closure of museums, cultural institutions and the suspension of all public gatherings and sporting events. Religious ceremonies and funerals are suspended. Ski facilities are closed. Childcare facilities, schools and universities are closed until 3 April. Restaurants and bars remain open with restricted hours and reduced seating.
If you’re returning to the UK from Italy, consult the latest advice from the Department of Health and Social Care on actions to take.
You can find more information on measures on the Ministry of Health website (in Italian).
Call Italy’s 112 emergency number if you believe you have symptoms. English speaking operators are available.
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available on the TravelHealthPro website.
You can find more information about cases in Italy on the TravelHealthPro country page.
See Health.
On 5 March 2020, Flybe announced that it had ceased operations and all its flights have been cancelled. For more information, see the Flybe travel alert. If you were due to travel with Flybe, read the UK Civil Aviation Authority’s advice to UK consumers for more information on how your travel plans may be affected and the steps you should take.
Approximately 3 million British nationals visit Italy every year. Most visits are trouble-free.
If you’re living in or moving to Italy, visit our Living in Italy guide in addition to this travel advice.
If you’re visiting a ski resort, take advice on weather and avalanche conditions before you travel and familiarise yourself with local skiing laws and regulations. For more information about the avalanche risk, visit the European Avalanche Warning Service website. See Safety and security
High waters known as “acqua alta” are a common occurrence in Venice during the winter months and can cause flooding in parts of the city. See Flooding
Forest fires are a risk during the extended summer months. See Forest fires
Due to Mount Etna’s recent volcanic eruption, a series of earthquakes and earth tremors are affecting the Catania area and the eastern part of the island of Sicily. Since August 2018 there have also been a number of localised earthquakes in the Molise region of Italy, near the town of Montecilfone. See Earthquakes
Demonstrations may occur with little or no warning in cities. You should avoid any protests, political gatherings, or marches.
Terrorist attacks in Italy can’t be ruled out. See Terrorism
If you need to contact the emergency services, call 112 (police), 118 (ambulance) or 115 (fire).
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.
You should take out comprehensive travel and medical insurance before you travel. For information on the European Health Insurance Card, see Health
