Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Mongolia on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
A fixed schedule is not currently operating but flights, primarily from MIAT, Korean Air and Turkish Airlines, are leaving Mongolia on a fairly regular basis. Details of these flights are often released at short notice. You should contact the airlines direct for details and to purchase tickets. See Return to the UK
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Mongolia.
Returning to the UK
Travelling from and returning to the UK
Check what you must do to travel abroad and return to England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
If you plan to pass through another country to return to the UK, check the travel advice for the country you’re transiting. If you will pass through a red list country, book your hotel quarantine package before travelling to the UK.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements.
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
carry additional prescription medicines
If you test positive for COVID-19 in Mongolia you will be asked to self-isolate and will be contacted by your nearest medical facility who will discuss your symptoms and offer further guidance. You should follow any guidance given by the Mongolian authorities.
Local medical facilities may not always have English speakers so if you require help with translation you can view our list of translators; the Embassy is unable to provide a translation service.
Travel in Mongolia
Precautionary measures introduced by the Mongolian authorities include:
restrictions on public gatherings
fines for not wearing a mask in public
the suspension of all scheduled international commercial air and rail routes. You should check the status of any upcoming flights or trains into and out of Mongolia with your airline/booking agent
the closure to foreign nationals of road crossings between Mongolia and Russia
the closure of all borders between China and Mongolia until further notice
the cancellation of all domestic flights except for charters
In addition to the above, the Government of Mongolia has placed the country under an “Orange Level” status, or “partial heightened state of readiness”.
Accommodation
You will likely need to wear a mask in indoor public areas of your accommodation, and your temperature may be checked upon entry. Hotels need to carry out regular cleaning and sanitising measures as per government guidance.
Public places and services
You may be fined if you do not wear a mask in public. Shops, bars and restaurants have social distancing measures in place.
Health
The Mongolian Ministry of Health has advised foreign nationals exhibiting cold or flu-type symptoms to call either of the following Ulaanbaatar-based clinics for advice: SOS Medica (+976 9191 3122) or Intermed (+976 8010 5577).
If you’re returning to the UK from Mongolia, consult the latest advice from the Department of Health and Social Care on actions to take.
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Mongolia.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
COVID-19 vaccines if you live in Mongolia
We will update this page when the Government of Mongolia announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The Mongolian national vaccination programme started in February 2021 using the AstraZeneca, Pfizer-BioNTech, Sinopharm and Sputnik V vaccines. British nationals with permanent residency status in Mongolia are eligible for vaccination, including booster doses. You should contact your local district health provider for further details and advice.
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad.
If you’re a British national living in Mongolia, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
