Coronavirus
There is an ongoing outbreak of coronavirus (COVID-19) in China and elsewhere in the region, including Mongolia. The Mongolian authorities have introduced a number of precautionary measures. These include:
The banning of entry into Mongolia of all foreign nationals.
The closure of all borders between China and Mongolia until further notice.
The closure of all schools, kindergartens, universities, higher education institutions and vocational training centres until 30 March 2020
The prohibition of all public gatherings, events and meetings, such as conferences, sporting events, and concerts until 30 March 2020
The suspension of all air routes to and from Mongolia between 11-28 March. You should check the status of any upcoming flights into and out of Mongolia with your airline.
Suspension of road crossings between Mongolia and Russia until 31 March and rail crossings until 28 March.
You should comply with any additional screening measures and instructions regarding self-quarantine put in place by the local authorities.
The Mongolian Ministry of Health has advised foreign nationals exhibiting cold or flu-type symptoms to call either of the following Ulaanbaatar-based clinics for advice: SOS Medica (+976 9191 3122) or Intermed (+976 8010 5577).
If you’re returning to the UK from Mongolia, consult the latest advice from the Department of Health and Social Care on actions to take.
Further information on coronavirus, including advice on preparing for foreign travel and helping reduce the spread of the virus, is available from Public Health England and on the TravelHealthPro website.
Coronavirus: Charter flights leaving Mongolia
The Government of Mongolia has been arranging charter flights to selected locations outside Mongolia that are to be used to return Mongolians to Ulaanbaatar. The Government has stated that foreign nationals may purchase tickets for the outward part of these flights. The following flight is now available:
Wednesday 18 March Ulaanbaatar-Istanbul at 06:30: • Economy: 450 USD, Business: 906 USD
Please be aware, however, that Turkey has announced that flights between Turkey and the UK have been cancelled until further notice.
At this stage any UK nationals who wish to take up this offer to leave Mongolia should contact Mongolian Airlines (MIAT) directly. MIAT telephone: +976 11 313 385, +976 11 322 118. You don’t need to register your request with the British Embassy.
Please note – the British Embassy in Mongolia cannot guarantee seats on this flight. You will be responsible for payment of the ticket. Individuals who book on this flight are responsible for making their own onward travel and visa arrangements. The Foreign and Commonwealth Office does not currently advise against travel to Turkey but flights between the UK and Turkey have been cancelled. You may be subject to extra screening on arrival in Turkey and should check FCO Travel Advice for Turkey and any other countries you may visit on this journey.
Please also keep in mind that this is a one-way flight only and any future intended return to Mongolia will be dependent on the current ban on foreign nationals from entering Mongolia, the reinstatement of international flights to Mongolia and/or the opening of land borders. International flights are currently suspended until 28 March. The British government is not currently recommending that British nationals need to leave Mongolia, but urges British nationals who wish to leave, to seriously consider the offer of the Mongolian-organised charter flights.
At least 8 weeks before your trip, check the latest country-specific health advice from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC) on the TravelHealthPro website. Each country-specific page has information on vaccine recommendations, any current health risks or outbreaks, and factsheets with information on staying healthy abroad. Guidance is also available from NHS (Scotland) on the FitForTravel website.
General information on travel vaccinations and a travel health checklist is available on the NHS website. You may then wish to contact your health adviser or pharmacy for advice on other preventive measures and managing any pre-existing medical conditions while you’re abroad.
The legal status and regulation of some medicines prescribed or purchased in the UK can be different in other countries. You’re only allowed to bring medicines for personal use into Mongolia. These include medicines for urgent aid for up to 7 days or for the treatment of diabetes, cancer, mental illness or HIV/AIDS for which you have a doctor’s prescription. If you’re arriving by plane, you should carry all medicines in your checked baggage. Guidance is available from NaTHNaC on best practice when travelling with medicines. For further information on the legal status of a specific medicine, you’ll need to contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country or territory you’re travelling to.
While travel can be enjoyable, it can sometimes be challenging. There are clear links between mental and physical health, so looking after yourself during travel and when abroad is important. Information on travelling with mental health conditions is available in our guidance page. Further information is also available from the National Travel Health Network and Centre (NaTHNaC).
Air pollution
The high levels of air pollution in Ulaanbaatar, especially in winter, may aggravate bronchial, sinus or asthma conditions. Children, the elderly and those with pre-existing medical conditions may be especially affected. You can check the pollution index levels for many cities on the aqicn.info website.
Health risks
There have been isolated incidents of bubonic plague in some rural areas of Mongolia, plague is caught by consuming marmot meat. The meat is a delicacy in some rural areas although it is illegal to hunt for marmot in Mongolia. In travelling through rural areas, you should avoid marmot meat and take precautionary actions on bubonic plague.
If you think you are exposed to bubonic plague whilst travelling in Mongolia, you should immediately report to the nearest hospital and call National Infectious Disease Centre at +976 100. You should contact the British Embassy if you or your group is quarantined due to an incident involving Bubonic Plague.
Medical treatment
If you need emergency medical assistance during your trip, dial 103 and ask for an ambulance. You should contact your insurance/medical assistance company as soon as possible to inform them of what has happened.
The standard of healthcare is variable, especially outside Ulaanbaatar. In Ulaanbaatar the quality and access can also vary. Doctors and hospitals may ask for cash payment in advance of treatment. The quality of local medical supplies is low and some medicines are counterfeit. Take basic supplies of over-the-counter medicines and any regular prescription drugs you may need with you.
Medical bills, especially when medical evacuation is required, can be very substantial. Make sure you have adequate travel health insurance and accessible funds to cover the cost of any medical treatment abroad and repatriation.
