Though many Mongolians are familiar with foreign visitors, you should be aware of local customs, especially if visiting remote areas or calling on a Mongolian family (e.g. stepping on a door threshold can cause offence).
Some Mongolian men do not like seeing Mongolian women in relationships with foreign men. Be discreet to avoid causing offence.
Drug possession and use
Possession and use of any type of drugs including cannabis is illegal. If found guilty you could face a very long prison sentence in an institution with very basic facilities.
Photographing security forces
Never photograph the police, police escorts, or military. This is considered a criminal offence.
Respecting religious customs
Show appropriate respect in Buddhist monasteries. Ask permission before taking photographs, and do not touch any sacred images or objects.
Carrying identification
If you’re a resident in Mongolia you should carry your registration card at all times. If you’re visiting Mongolia, and do not have a registration card, you must carry your passport at all times – a photocopy isn’t sufficient.
Failure to carry your registration card or passport may lead to a fine. Keep a copy of the bio data page and the page with your Mongolian border immigration stamp separately in a safe place.
Wildlife, animal products and souvenirs
It’s illegal to buy, sell, kill or capture any protected wild animal or trade its parts without a license. Mongolia is a signatory to the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES). If you’re caught purchasing or trafficking illegal goods you’ll be prosecuted and could receive a prison sentence and fine.
Antiques trade
In purchasing antiques make sure the supplier presents a certificate of authenticity for the item. You will need the document for exporting the item. Mongolian Customs produces an import, export guide on prohibited items.
If you become involved in a commercial dispute or a criminal investigation, you may be prevented from leaving Mongolia until the issue is resolved through a travel ban. If you’re subject to a travel ban, you should inform the British Embassy.
If you bring a car into Mongolia you may have to pay a small fee. If you do not leave with your car, you may also have to pay an import tax either on departure or at a later date when you’ve returned to the UK.
LGBT+
Although not illegal, homosexuality is not generally accepted socially. See our information and advice page for the LGBT+ community before you travel.
