All scheduled commercial flights have been cancelled but there are occasional flights leaving Mongolia. The UK government is working closely with the Mongolian authorities regarding charter flights and options for British people to return to the UK.
Flights
The government of Mongolia has announced the following flights leaving Ulaanbaatar:
October
21 October: Seoul (Korean Air)
21 October: Almaty (Hunnu Air)
22 October: Seoul (Asiana Airlines)
22 October: Irkutsk (Aero Mongolia)
22 October: Seoul (MIAT Airlines)
25 October: Budapest (Hunnu Air)
26 October: Seoul (MIAT Airlines)
27/28 October: Istanbul (Turkish Airlines)
27 October: Frankfurt (MIAT Airlines)
28 October: Almaty (Hunnu Air)
28 October: Seoul (Korean Air)
29 October: Seoul (MIAT Airlines)
29 October: Tokyo (MIAT Airlines)
29 October: Seoul (Asiana Airlines)
November
2 November: Seoul (MIAT Airlines)
2 November: Tokyo (AeroMongolia)
3 November: Tokyo (MIAT Airlines)
4 November: Seoul (Korean Air)
4 November: Almaty (Hunnu Air)
4 November: Istanbul (Turkish Airlines)
5 November: Seoul (MIAT Airlines)
5 November: Frankfurt (MIAT Airlines)
7 November: Istanbul (Turkish Airlines)
7 November: Seoul (MIAT Airlines)
10 November: Tokyo (MIAT Airlines)
10 November: Seoul (Asiana Airlines)
11 November: Tokyo (AeroMongolia)
11 November: Almaty (Hunnu Air)
11 November: Seoul (Korean Air)
11 November: Istanbul (Turkish Airlines)
12 November: Seoul (MIAT Airlines)
14 November: Istanbul (Turkish Airlines)
13 November: Frankfurt (MIAT Airlines)
14 November: Seoul (MIAT Airlines)
17 November: Tokyo (MIAT Airlines)
18 November: Seoul (Korean Air)
18 November: Almaty (Hunnu Air)
18 November: Istanbul (Turkish Airlines)
19 November: Seoul (MIAT Airlines)
20 November: Frankfurt (MIAT Airlines)
21 November: Istanbul (Turkish Airlines)
21 November: Seoul (MIAT Airlines)
23 November: Tokyo (AeroMongolia)
24 November: Seoul (Asiana Airlines)
24 November: Tokyo (MIAT Airlines)
25 November: Almaty (Hunnu Air)
25 November: Seoul (Korean Air)
25 November: Istanbul (Turkish Airlines)
26 November: Seoul (MIAT Airlines)
27 November: Frankfurt (MIAT Airlines)
28 November: Istanbul (Turkish Airlines)
28 November: Seoul (MIAT Airlines)
30 November: Seoul (MIAT Airlines)
December
1 December: Tokyo (MIAT Airlines)
1 December: Seoul Asiana Airlines)
2 December: Seoul (Korean Air)
2 December: Istanbul (Turkish Airlines)
3 December: Seoul (MIAT Airlines)
4 December: Nursultan (Hunnu Air)
4 December: Frankfurt (MIAT Airlines)
5 December: Istanbul (Turkish Airlines)
5 December: Seoul (MIAT Airlines)
7 December: Tokyo (AeroMongolia)
7 December: Seoul (MIAT Airlines)
8 December: Tokyo (MIAT Airlines)
9 December: Seoul (Korean Air)
9 December: Istanbul (Turkish Airlines)
10 December: Seoul (MIAT Airlines)
12 December: Istanbul (Turkish Airlines)
11 December: Frankfurt (MIAT Airlines)
12 December: Seoul (MIAT Airlines)
14 December: Seoul (MIAT Airlines)
14 December: Tokyo (AeroMongolia)
15 December: Tokyo (MIAT Airlines)
15 December: Seoul (Asiana Airlines)
16 December: Istanbul (Turkish Airlines)
16 December: Almaty (Hunnu Air)
16 December: Seoul (Korean Air)
17 December: Seoul (MIAT Airlines)
18 December: Frankfurt (MIAT Airlines)
19 December: Istanbul (Turkish Airlines)
19 December: Seoul (MIAT Airlines)
21 December: Seoul (MIAT Airlines)
21 December: Tokyo (AeroMongolia)
23 December: Seoul (Korean Air)
23 December: Istanbul (Turkish Airlines)
24 December: Seoul (MIAT Airlines)
25 December: Nursultan (Hunnu Air)
25 December: Frankfurt (MIAT Airlines)
26 December: Istanbul(Turkish Airlines)
26 December: Seoul (MIAT Airlines)
28 December: Seoul (MIAT Airlines)
28 December: Tokyo (AeroMongolia)
29 December: Seoul (Asiana Airlines)
29 December: Tokyo (MIAT Airlines)
30 December: Seoul (Korean Air)
30 December: Istanbul (Turkish Airlines)
31 December: Seoul (MIAT Airlines)
The British Embassy understands that British nationals may be able to purchase tickets for the outward legs from Ulaanbaatar. British nationals wanting to purchase tickets for these flights should contact the relevant airline direct.
The British Embassy cannot guarantee seats on any of these flights. You will be responsible for payment of the ticket. Individuals who book on any of these flights are responsible for making their own onward travel arrangements. You should also check FCDO Travel Advice regarding onward flights to the UK from the destinations listed above.
If you book a seat you should make sure your luggage will be checked through to your destination. If the airline cannot undertake this task, you should check with the airport, through which you are transiting, whether you will be allowed to collect your luggage and then check-in for your next flight.
As further information becomes available it will be shared on these pages and on the British Embassy Ulaanbaatar Twitter and Facebook sites.
You will need to pay for your return travel to the UK. If departure options are available but you cannot afford the travel costs and have exhausted all other options for getting funds, you may be eligible to apply for an emergency loan from the government. This is a last resort option and you would need to repay the loan when you’re back in the UK.
For more information, please read Financial Assistance Abroad.
Returning to the UK
Mongolia is on the red list for entering England. From 4am on Monday 11 October, Mongolia will no longer be on the red list for entering England. Check what you must do to travel abroad and return to England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
You are responsible for organising your own COVID-19 test, in line with UK government testing requirements.
Future travel options
The UK government is working closely with airlines, the Mongolian authorities and other governments to make sure options are available for you to return to the UK. This travel advice will be updated when further departure options become available.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, you can contact the British Embassy on +976 1145 8133.
The Embassy cannot provide further information or advice about departure options over the phone. This page will be updated when departure options become available. To get the latest information, sign up for travel advice email alerts.
