Mongolia has put measures in place to limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Moving around in Mongolia
For information on entering Mongolia see Entry Requirements
Precautionary measures introduced by the Mongolian authorities include:
the banning of entry into Mongolia of all foreign nationals
the suspension of all international air and rail routes until at least 31 May. You should check the status of any upcoming flights or trains into and out of Mongolia with your airline
the closure to foreign nationals of road crossings between Mongolia and Russia
the closure of all borders between China and Mongolia until further notice
the closure of all schools, kindergartens, universities, higher education institutions and vocational training centres until 1 September 2020
the prohibition of all public gatherings, events and meetings, such as conferences, sporting events, and concerts until 31 May 2020
You should comply with any additional screening measures and instructions regarding self-quarantine put in place by the local authorities.
Visas
Any British nationals who need to extend their visas should contact the Immigration Agency of Mongolia, telephone +976 1800 1882 or +976 9314 1009.
Health
The Mongolian Ministry of Health has advised foreign nationals exhibiting cold or flu-type symptoms to call either of the following Ulaanbaatar-based clinics for advice: SOS Medica (+976 9191 3122) or Intermed (+976 8010 5577).
If you’re returning to the UK from Mongolia, consult the latest advice from the Department of Health and Social Care on actions to take.
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Read guidance on how to look after your mental wellbeing and mental health
View Health for further details on healthcare in Mongolia.
See also the guidance on healthcare if you’re waiting to return to the UK.
Finance
There is a range of financial support from the government that you can access while you are unable to return due to coronavirus restrictions.
For further UK government guidance on support you can access whilst abroad, visit our waiting to return guidance. This includes guidance on finance, health, and staying connected.
Help and support
If you need urgent consular assistance, contact your nearest British embassy, high commission or consulate. All telephone numbers are available 24/7.
Further information
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
