The Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advise against all but essential travel to Mongolia, due to travel restrictions implemented by the Mongolian Government related to the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic.
It is currently not possible for British nationals to enter or exit Mongolia owing to coronavirus (COVID-19) restrictions imposed by the Mongolian Government, including suspension of all flights until at least 28 March. We urge all British nationals to seriously consider the offer of Mongolian-organised outward charter flights on 15/16 March and to provide their name and passport details to consular.mongolia@fco.gov.uk by 1200 Mongolia time/0400 GMT on Friday 13 March at the latest if they wish to leave Mongolia on these flights. We are not aware of any plans by the Mongolian Government for further exit flights. See Health
The Government of Mongolia is arranging charter flights on 15 and 16 March to selected locations outside Mongolia that are to be used to return Mongolians to Ulaanbaatar. The Ministry has stated that foreign nationals may purchase tickets for the outward part of these flights. British nationals that choose to stay in Mongolia may face challenging circumstances if you subsequently wish to leave Mongolia whilst Mongolian Government restrictions remain in place. See Health
There is an ongoing outbreak of coronavirus (COVID-19) in China and elsewhere in the region, including Mongolia. The Mongolian authorities have introduced a number of precautionary measures, including the closure of all borders between China and Mongolia, the suspension of all flights into and out of Mongolia between 11 and 28 March. Road crossings between Mongolia and Russia were suspended from 10 March until 31 March and rail crossings until 28 March. Foreign visitors may be asked to take medical checks upon arrival and may be quarantined for up to 14 days by the local authorities. See Health
Around 6,500 British nationals visit Mongolia annually. Most visits are trouble-free.
Mongolia takes border security very seriously and foreign nationals aren’t routinely permitted access to border areas. The authorities can regard zones of up to 100km inside the border as a border area. If you wish to travel in these areas, you must get permission from the State Frontier Guard Authority. Only a few specified land border crossings are open to foreigners. See Border crossings
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Mongolia, attacks can’t be ruled out. See Terrorism.
Avoid going out on foot alone at night. Foreigners stand out and can be targeted for attack because of their comparative wealth. See Crime.
If you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.
Take out comprehensive travel and medical insurance before you travel.
