Coronavirus travel health
Check the latest information on risk from COVID-19 for Comoros on the TravelHealthPro website
See the TravelHealthPro website for further advice on travel abroad and reducing spread of respiratory viruses during the COVID-19 pandemic.
International travel
International air travel is possible to and from Comoros.
Entry and borders
See Entry requirements to find out what you will need to do when you arrive in Comoros.
Returning to the UK
Travelling from and returning to the UK
Check what you must do to travel abroad and return to England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
If you plan to pass through another country to return to the UK, check the travel advice for the country you’re transiting.
You should contact local authorities for information on testing facilities (only available in French).
Be prepared for your plans to change
No travel is risk-free during COVID. Countries may further restrict travel or bring in new rules at short notice, for example due to a new COVID-19 variant. Check with your travel company or airline for any transport changes which may delay your journey home.
If you test positive for COVID-19, you may need to stay where you are until you test negative. You may also need to seek treatment there.
Plan ahead and make sure you:
can access money
understand what your insurance will cover
can make arrangements to extend your stay and be away for longer than planned
Travel in Comoros
The authorities in Comoros have introduced measures, including enhanced screening procedures, to prevent the spread of Coronavirus within Comoros, including between the islands of Grande Comore, Moheli and Anjouan.
The number of passengers on public transport is limited (10 on buses, 4 in taxis). You must wear a face mask on public transport, and proof of vaccination for all persons aged 18 and over is required for use of public transport.
Accommodation
Some hotel and guesthouse accommodation are open, although many remain closed. We advise that you contact your accommodation provider before travelling.
Public places and services
Proof of vaccination is required for anyone aged 18 and over wishing to enter public offices (with the exception of medical facilities), supermarkets, restaurants, banks and shops as well as for access to public transport and the airport. A vaccination certificate is also required for access to cultural and sporting gatherings and weddings.
Masks are mandatory for gatherings in enclosed spaces, in health facilities, pharmacies and medical labs, and in the check-in/waiting areas at ports and airports.
Healthcare in Comoros
For contact details for English speaking doctors visit our list of healthcare providers.
If you think you have COVID-19 symptoms, you should contact your healthcare provider and your medical insurance company for advice.
Local COVID-19 information is available in French on the local authority website, or dial the free helpline on 1717
See Health for further details on healthcare in Comoros.
COVID-19 Vaccines if you live in Comoros
We will update this page when the government of Comoros announces new information on the national vaccination programme. You can sign up to get email notifications when this page is updated.
The national vaccine programme in Comoros started in April 2021 using the Sinopharm vaccine. The Government of Comoros has stated that British nationals resident in Comoros are eligible for vaccination if they choose to join the programme. Further information on the vaccination programme is available on the Government of Comoros Ministry of Health facebook site (in French only).
Find out more, including about vaccines that are authorised in the UK or approved by the World Health Organisation, on the COVID-19 vaccines if you live abroad page.
If you’re a British national living overseas, you should seek medical advice from your local healthcare provider. Information about COVID-19 vaccines used in the national programme where you live, including regulatory status, should be available from local authorities.
Finance
For information on financial support you can access whilst abroad, visit our financial assistance guidance.
