

Terrorism
There is a high threat of terrorist attack globally affecting UK interests and British nationals, including from groups and individuals who view the UK and British nationals as targets. Stay aware of your surroundings at all times.    
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out how to reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad.
Terrorism in Comoros
Although there’s no recent history of terrorism in Comoros, attacks cannot be ruled out. 
Political situation
Protests and unrest can happen in Comoros, including in Moroni and other parts of Grande Comore, Anjouan and Mohéli, particularly following elections. Protests have previously blocked roads, making travel in Moroni difficult, including between the city and the international airport.
In January 2024, a protestor was killed and several injured in clashes with security forces.
Avoid crowds and demonstrations and follow the advice and instructions of local authorities.
Due to a longstanding dispute between Comoros and France about the island of Mayotte, there is some anti-French sentiment in Comoros and occasional demonstrations on the issue. Monitor local media to keep up to date with developments.
Crime
Crime levels are low but take precautions against pickpocketing. Street crime such as robbery is rare. Walking alone at night increases your risk, including on beaches or in town centres.
Protecting your belongings
Keep your valuables, cash and important documents in hotel safes where possible.
Laws and cultural differences
Personal ID
Always travel with your ID. Keep printed copies of your passport’s photo page and visa stamp.
Religion 
Comoros is an Islamic country. The official religion is Sunni Islam. People are not allowed to practise Shia Islam in Comoros.
Respect local traditions, customs, laws and religious practices. Make sure you do not offend cultural or religious beliefs.
Dress and behaviour codes
Clothing for men and women needs to cover the body loosely, from the shoulders to the knees.
Islanders mostly consider outward displays of intimacy to be contrary to public decency. 
Ramadan
All matters of religious practice and custom are given particular importance by the people and authorities throughout the year. This importance is especially heightened during the month of Ramadan.
Ramadan is a holy month for Muslims. The dates vary by year and country. Check the year’s Ramadan dates before you travel. During this time of Ramadan do not:
eat, drink, smoke or chew gum in public in the daytime, including in your car or in public view
play loud music or dance
swear in public
Get more advice when you arrive from your tour guide, hotel or business contacts.
You should also: 
check opening hours of shops and restaurants
be aware that if hotels and restaurants are providing food or drink in fasting hours, they may separate you from Islamic guests, for example with screens
follow local dress codes – clothing that does not meet local dress codes may cause more offence at this time
be aware that fasting can cause tiredness, particularly during the later afternoon and early evening
be patient and show tolerance
Alcohol laws and bans
It is possible to buy alcohol in Comoros, for example at hotels, but drinking alcohol or being drunk on public highways is illegal. Offences are punishable by fines or even imprisonment.
Pay particular attention to these rules during the Ramadan period.
Illegal drugs and prison sentences
Drug trafficking and possession are serious offences. If you are found guilty, you could get a long prison sentence and a fine.
Using cameras in secure areas     
It is advisable to ask people for permission before photographing them. Avoid taking photos of public buildings, particularly military and police buildings.
LGBT+ travellers
Same-sex sexual activity is illegal in Comoros. If convicted you could get a prison sentence of up to 5 years and heavy fines.
Read more advice for LGBT+ travellers.
Money
There are very few banks or ATMs in Grande Comore or on the other islands. People in Comoros mainly use cash. Credit cards are not always accepted – check in advance if your hotel accepts your card.
Technical or connection issues with equipment may also make it difficult to pay by card so always have cash available. Some hotels and restaurants accept foreign currencies such as euros. However, they will give you change in Comorian francs.
Transport risks
Road travel
If you are planning to drive in Comoros, see information on driving abroad.
You can use a UK photocard driving licence to drive in Comoros for up to 3 months. If you still have a paper driving licence, you may need to update it to a photocard licence or get the correct version of the international driving permit (IDP) as well.
If you need an extension after 3 months, go to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs at Rue du place de l’indépendance des Comores à Moroni or visit their Facebook page: Ministère des Affaires Etrangères de l’Union des Comores.
On Grande Comore, the main ring-road is of a reasonable standard, but many other roads are in poor condition.
Air travel
The UK Air Safety List (ASL) lists all known airlines in Comoros that do not meet international safety standards and are banned from operating commercial air services to, from, and within the UK. Check the UK Air Safety List when considering which airlines to fly with. The list is maintained by the Department for Transport, based on advice from the UK Civil Aviation Authority.
Sea travel
Boats and ferries take passengers between the 3 islands. They can be overloaded, in poor condition and without life jackets. Overloaded vessels have capsized in Comorian waters with significant loss of life.
Recent attacks off the coast of Somalia and the Gulf of Aden highlight the significant risk of piracy and armed robbery.
If you’re travelling by sea, read about the regional risks at sea.
Extreme weather and natural disasters
Find out what you can do to prepare for and respond to extreme weather and natural hazards. 
Tropical cyclones
Tropical cyclones can affect Comoros between January and May. Monitor local news and check World Meteorological Organization weather reports for Comoros.  
Volcanic eruptions
Karthala, near Moroni on Grande Comore, is an active volcano which last erupted in 2007. Check Karthala’s most recent reports and monitoring before you make plans to visit.
